old id = 1226
Michael Bowling, PhD - Directory@UAlberta
1996
https://www.ualberta.ca/science/about-us/contact-us/faculty-directory/michael-bowling

Search Within Email & Apps Bear Tracks eClass Find a Person Maps Library ONEcard Folio The Quad New Trail YouAlberta Events Prospective Students Current Students Faculty + Staff Alumni + Friends Give to the U of A Careers Indigenous Initiatives Equity, Diversity, and Inclusivity COVID-19 Information HealthyU Essentials Search Advanced Departments Help Login Apps Directory Viewing Michael Bowling Michael Bowling, PhD Contact Professor, Faculty of Science - Computing Science Edmonton AB Overview About Education B.S., Math and Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University, 1996 M.Sc., Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University, 1999 Ph.D., Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University, 2003 Research Areas Artificial Intelligence Computer Games Reinforcement Learning Robotics Interests Multiagent learning and planning, game theory, reinforcement learning, commercial computer games, robotics.
Summary My research focuses on machine learning, games, and robotics, and I'm particularly fascinated by the problem of how computers can learn to play games through experience.
I am the leader of the Computer Poker Research Group, which has built some of the best poker playing programs on the planet. The programs were the first to beat top professional players in a meaningful competition and more recently have been shown to play a nearly perfect game of limit Texas hold'em poker. I also started the Arcade Learning Environment, a research testbed for investigating artificial intelligence techniques capable of general competency using Atari 2600 games. More recently I have begun exploring the application of advanced analytics to the sport of curling.
I completed my Ph.D. at Carnegie Mellon University in 2003, where my dissertation was focused on multiagent learning and I was extensively involved in the RoboCup robot soccer initiative. My research has been featured on the television programs Scientific American Frontiers, National Geographic Today, and Discovery Channel Canada, as well appearing in the New York Times, Wired, on CBC and BBC radio, and twice in exhibits at the Smithsonian Museums in Washington, DC.
Courses INT D 350 - Game Design Principles and Practice Team-based exploration of the formal elements of games including tabletop games, sports, live-action games, and computer games. Prerequisite: CMPUT 250 or consent of the Program. [Faculty of Arts, Media and Technology Studies] Browse more courses taught by Michael Bowling University of Alberta logo
