old id = 830
The ITER Itinerary
2023
https://www.iter.org/transport

Jobs 7 Tenders 78 Faqs Visits Contact us ITER Directory Subscribe Donate.
gsc-placeholder-input{outline: none; background: url("http://www.google.com/cse/static/en/google_custom_search_watermark.gif") 0% 50% no-repeat rgb(255, 255, 255);padding: 1px 6px;border: 1px solid #DDD;width: 99%; font-size:13px;height: 30px;margin: 0px 5px;width: 100%!important;} .gsc-search-button{display:none} .gsc-control-cse{background-color:transparent; border-color:transparent} Subscribe options Select your newsletters: ITER Newsline Keep in touch with ITER through our main news feed, sent weekly.
ITER Magazine - French only Learn more about the ITER Project by subscribing to this quarterly online magazine that is geared toward the general public.
ITER Open Doors Day - Notifications Stay informed about the ITER Open Doors sessions and be among the first to subscribe to the next event.
Please enter your email address: @ Your email address will only be used for the purpose of sending you the ITER Organization publication(s) that you have requested.
ITER Organization will not transfer your email address or other personal data to any other party or use it for commercial purposes.
If you change your mind, you can easily unsubscribe by clicking the unsubscribe option at the bottom of an email you've received from ITER Organization.
For more information, see our Privacy policy.
') < 0){ $(this).remove(); } }) $("div.sub").each(function(){ $(this).appendTo("#menu-content"); if ($(this).find('li.active').length > 0){ var activeSubMenu = $(this).index() + 1; $("li.menu-cat[data-id='" + activeSubMenu + "']").addClass('active'); } else if( $(document).find('div#menu h2 a.active').length > 0 ) { } }) var activeIndex = $('li.menu-cat.active').index(); if(activeIndex >= 0){ $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == activeIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); } //hide menu on overlay click $('div.black-overlay').click(function(){ $('li.menu-cat.selected').trigger( "click" ); }); function menuBehaviour() { var isiPhone = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("iphone"); var isiPad = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("ipad"); var isiPod = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("ipod"); var isAndroid = /android/i.test(navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase()); var isBlackberry = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("BlackBerry"); var isOpera = /Opera/i.test(navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase()); var isIE = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("IEMobile"); //for Tablet if(isiPhone > -1 || isiPad > -1 || isiPod > -1 || isAndroid || isBlackberry > -1 || isOpera || isIE > 1){ $('li.menu-cat span.glyphicon').click(function(event) { //remove href link event.preventDefault(); currentMenu = $(this).parent().parent().parent(); setMenuTimeoutConst = setTimeout( function() { MenuToggle( $(currentMenu) ); setMenuTimeoutConst = null; }, 500 ); }); }else{ $('li.menu-cat').on( 'mouseenter', function() { currentMenu = $(this); setMenuTimeoutConst = setTimeout( function() { MenuToggle( $(currentMenu) ); setMenuTimeoutConst = null; }, 500 ); }); } } menuBehaviour(); $('li.menu-cat').on( 'mouseleave', function() { clearTimeout( setMenuTimeoutConst ); currentMenu = null; }); $('ul.general-menu').on( 'mouseleave', function() { closeMenuTimeout = setTimeout( closeMenu, 100 ); }); $('div#menu-content').on( 'mouseleave', function() { closeMenuTimeout = setTimeout( closeMenu, 100 ); }); $('ul.general-menu').on( 'mouseenter', function() { clearTimeout( closeMenuTimeout ); }); $('div#menu-content').on( 'mouseenter', function() { clearTimeout( closeMenuTimeout ); }); }); function closeMenu() { MenuToggle( $('.menu-cat.selected') ); clearTimeout( timeoutBlackOverlay ); $("div.black-overlay").hide(); clearTimeout( setMenuTimeoutConst ); } function MenuToggle( obj ) { currentMenu = obj; var id = $(obj).data('id'); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).find('div.column-select').css({'opacity':'0'}); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).removeClass('last'); if (id != $(this).data('id')){ $(this).removeClass('selected'); $(this).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-up').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-down'); $("div.sub.selected").addClass('last'); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).hide().removeClass('selected'); } }) if($(obj).hasClass('active')){ $("div.submenu-content-" + $(obj).data('id')).addClass('active'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); } if ($(obj).hasClass('selected')){ $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 0}); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).slideToggle().removeClass('selected'); $("div.sub").removeClass('last'); $("div.black-overlay").fadeTo(200, 0); setTimeout( function() { $("div.black-overlay").hide(); }, 200 ); $(obj).removeClass('selected'); $(obj).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-up').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-down'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); if (!$(obj).hasClass('active')){ $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').removeAttr('style'); } }); } } else { //check last selected height var lastSize = $('div.sub.last').height(); // if last has height if (lastSize > 0 ){ var currentHeight = $("div.submenu-content-" + id).height(); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).height(lastSize) $("div.submenu-content-" + id).show().animate({height : currentHeight + 30 + 'px'}); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 1}); } //else we toggle the menu else{ $("div.submenu-content-" + id).slideToggle(); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 1}); } timeoutBlackOverlay = setTimeout( function() { $("div.black-overlay").show().fadeTo(200, 0.6); }, 200 ); $(obj).addClass('selected'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); $(obj).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-down').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-up'); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(obj).data('id')).addClass('selected'); } } About About An introduction to the project's goals, history, organization, location...
In a few lines What is ITER? What will ITER do? What is Fusion? What is a Tokamak? Who is participating in ITER? When will experiments begin? History IAEA ITER Newsletter The ITER Organization ITER Members Governance Iter in France Faqs Project Milestones Legal resources Status of the Organization Independence ITER Organization-Host State Settlement of disputes Rules and regulations Use of the ITER Logo Legal Affairs mandate Visits Machine Machine One million components, ten million parts — find out more about the ITER Tokamak and its systems.
What is a TOKAMAK? The ITER TOKAMAK Magnets Vacuum Vessel Blanket Divertor Cryostat Supporting Systems Vacuum Cryogenics CODAC Remote Handling Power Supply Fuel Cycle Hot Cell Cooling Water Tritium Breeding Diagnostics External Heating Manufacturing Safety and Environment Science Science Bringing a star to Earth? Explore the science of ITER.
What is fusion? Making it work Fusion fuels Plasma heating Plasma confinement Iter goals Advantages of Fusion 60 years of progress Int'l Tokamak research After Iter Fusion Glossary Construction Construction Follow the construction of the world's largest tokamak in southern France.
Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR Assembly Assembly Assembly Overview Specialized tooling Tokamak Assembly Metrology Plant assembly Commissioning News & Media News & Media The latest photos, videos and publications from the ITER Organization.
All News Photos News in French 3D Virtual Tour ITER Newsline Videos Events ITER Podcast Press Releases Publication Centre ITER Mag archives Top Tenders ITER Directory Donate About About In a few lines In a few lines What is ITER? What will ITER do? What is Fusion? What is a Tokamak? Who is participating in ITER? When will experiments begin? History History IAEA ITER Newsletter Faqs Project Milestones The ITER Organization ITER Members Governance Iter in France Legal resources Legal resources Status of the Organization Independence ITER Organization-Host State Settlement of disputes Rules and regulations Use of the ITER Logo Legal Affairs mandate Visits Machine Machine What is a TOKAMAK? The ITER TOKAMAK The ITER TOKAMAK Magnets Vacuum Vessel Blanket Divertor Cryostat Supporting Systems Supporting Systems Vacuum Cryogenics CODAC Remote Handling Power Supply Fuel Cycle Hot Cell Cooling Water Tritium Breeding Diagnostics External Heating Manufacturing Safety and Environment Science Science What is fusion? Making it work Making it work Fusion fuels Plasma heating Plasma confinement Advantages of Fusion 60 years of progress Iter goals Int'l Tokamak research After Iter Fusion Glossary Construction Construction Projects underway Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR Assembly Assembly Assembly Overview Tokamak Assembly Plant assembly Specialized tooling Metrology Commissioning News & Media News & Media All News Photos News in French 3D Virtual Tour ITER Newsline Videos Events Press Releases Publication Centre ITER Mag archives ITER Podcast Toggle navigation Toggle navigation Francais English Jobs Tenders Faqs Contact us directory Subscribe Donate Intranet Donate...
Construction Component transport Europe sends last toroidal field coil Toroidal field coil #19 (TF19)—the last of ten toroidal field coils expected from the European Domestic Agency—is loaded at the SIMIC factory in Italy on 23 October. Read more about the 15-year industrial adventure to produce ten toroidal field coils in Europe here: https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/3767 23 October 2023 Download On the way to ITER Bringing an ITER component from the French port of Fos-sur-Mer to the ITER site is a stepwise process: road transport from the port to the loading dock at the inland sea of Berre (pictured), a several-hour crossing of the inland sea by barge, and finally transfer to the 104-kilometre road itinerary that leads to ITER.
18 October 2023 Download Feeder component from China An "in-cryostat feeder" has reached France from China. This semi-circular component will fit inside the cylindrical cryostat to deliver power, cryogens and instrumentation to four of the top correction coils.
12 October 2023 Download Last D-shaped coil from Japan arrives in France Toroidal field coil #19 has been unloaded at Fos-sur-Mer. This nineteenth coil, supplied by Japan, has been planned as a spare as the ITER machine only needs 18.
12 October 2023 Download TF19: Toroidal field magnet loaded at Kobe Port Carefully protected inside of a metal structure, toroidal field coil #19 (TF19) has been loaded at Kobe Port. The oceangoing vessel will be departing Japan on 4 September.
03 September 2023 Download Japan ships last D-shaped coil Toroidal field coil #19 (TF19) has been shipped from the Mitsubishi Heavy Industries facility in Futami, Japan. This is the ninth, and last, D-shaped coil to be supplied by the Japanese Domestic Agency to the ITER Organization.
24 August 2023 Download Feeder components on their way from China This in-cryostat feeder will connect directly to some of the top correction coils of the ITER machine, delivering electrical power, cryogens and instrumentation. Fabricated by ASIPP in China, it has been loaded on board a vessel in Shanghai and is expected to reach France in September.
19 August 2023 Download Delivered! A 350-tonne ring-shaped magnet, poloidal field coil #4, is delivered by the European Domestic Agency on 8 August 2023. Only one poloidal field coil (out of six) remains to be completed.
08 August 2023 Download Delivered: central solenoid magnet This 110-tonne central solenoid magnet shipped by the US Domestic Agency in May travelled three nights along the ITER Itinerary to reach ITER during the final leg of its journey. It passed the ITER gates at 2:00 a.m. on 20 July 2023.
19 July 2023 Download Coil from Japan reaches France Toroidal field coil #7 (TF07) from Japan has reached France. It was unloaded at Fos-sur-Mer on 11 July and then ferried by barge to the start of the ITER road itinerary at Berre port. It will be transported to the ITER site later this month.
13 July 2023 Download ITER magnet: ferried by barge Large components on their way to ITER leave their oceangoing ship for another type of vessel—a specially built barge that can ferry them across the inland sea of Berre to the departure point of the ITER road itinerary. This central solenoid module procured by the US Domestic Agency had perfect wind and weather conditions for its crossing.
07 July 2023 Download Offloaded! The third central solenoid module to be completed by US Domestic Agency contractor General Atomics and shipped to ITER has been unloaded at the port of Fos-sur-Mer, France. It will be scheduled for road transport to ITER later this summer.
04 July 2023 Download Central solenoid module ready for ocean crossing A central solenoid coil pack, or module, is loaded onto a vessel at Houston Port (Texas, USA) for shipment to ITER.
16 June 2023 Download Last regular coil leaves Japan Toroidal field coil #7 (TF07) has left Japan for ITER. This is the eighth (and last) regular vertical coil supplied by the Japanese Domestic Agency. One other will be supplied as a spare. Delivery is expected in June.
17 May 2023 Download Third central solenoid module leaves US factory This 110-tonne central solenoid module manufactured by General Atomics (San Diego, California) is on its way to the ITER site. Six modules will be stacked at ITER to form the complete central solenoid magnet.
10 May 2023 Download Large magnet feeder segment arrives from China This in-cryostat feeder will connect directly to some of the top correction coils of the ITER machine, delivering electrical power, cryogens and instrumentation. Fabricated by ASIPP in China, it reached the port of Fos-sur-Mer, France, on 23 March 2023.
24 March 2023 Download Japan: Last regular vertical coil travelling Toroidal field coil #07 (TF07) has been loaded on a barge at Yokohama Port for transport to ITER. Manufactured by Toshiba Energy Systems & Solutions, this is the eighth and last regular vertical coil to be supplied by Japan. Read more at: https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/3850 22 March 2023 Download 32 sets of cryojumpers Small but essential: the "cryojumpers" delivered recently to ITER are semi-flexible cryogenic pipes that distribute helium to the cryopumps responsible for creating the required level of vacuum in the vacuum vessel and cryostat. See https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/3851 for more detail.
02 March 2023 Download Japan ships two more gyrotrons Two 3-metre-tall, 800-kilo gyrotrons have left Japan for ITER. The Japanese Domestic Agency is responsible for supplying 8 of these high-powered microwave-generating systems for electron cyclotron heating at ITER. With this shipment, the four gyrotrons needed from Japan for First Plasma will be on site.
14 February 2023 Download Russia delivers ring magnet PF1 On Friday 10 February, poloidal field coil PF1 from Russia is delivered to the ITER site. This 160-tonne, 9-metre-in-diameter magnet will be the top ring magnet of the ITER machine, installed after the completion of the vacuum vessel.
10 February 2023 Download European D-shaped coil arrives Early in the morning on Friday 20 January 2023, this 330-tonne toroidal field coil, TF1, passed through the ITER gates. It is the ninth D-shaped coil that has been delivered since 2020 by the European Domestic Agency and the sixteenth overall (out of 19). Only one more is expected from Europe.
20 January 2023 Download Japan's TF15 coil arrives on site Toroidal field coil #15 (TF15) reaches the ITER site on 13 January 2023. Only one more vertical coil is expected from Japan. © Jean-Marie Hosatte - REA 17 January 2023 Download Europe's TF01 magnet coil reaches France The same day as TF15 from Japan, Europe's TF01 toroidal field coil is unloaded at Fos-sur-Mer port. Manufactured in Italy by two consortiums—ASG (ASG Superconductors, Iberdrola, et Elytt Energy) and SIMIC/CNIM—the 330-tonne coil will travel to ITER in January.
15 December 2022 Download Japan's TF15 magnet coil reaches France Toroidal field coil #15 (TF15), manufactured by Toshiba Energy Systems & Solutions for ITER Japan, has been unloaded at the French port of Fos-sur-Mer. It will be transferred to ITER in January.
15 December 2022 Download Europe ships penultimate toroidal field coil Toroidal field magnet TF01 is the ninth of ten toroidal field coils expected from Europe. It left Porto Marghera, Italy, on 7 December.
07 December 2022 Download D-shaped coil leaves European facility Toroidal field coil #1 (TF01) has left the SIMIC facility in Italy where the superconducting core was inserted into its structural steel case. The completed coil, the ninth procured by Europe, is on its way to ITER.
24 November 2022 Download PF1 magnet coil on its way from Russia The ring-shaped magnet that will sit at the top of the ITER machine, the 9-metre-in-diameter PF1 coil, has left the Sredne Nevsky Shipyard in St. Petersburg. The 200-tonne component left the factory on a barge and was reloaded onto a transport vessel in the port of Bronka on 1 November 2022.
01 November 2022 Download Toroidal field coil leaves Yokohama Port Toroidal field coil #15 (TF15) leaves Yokohama Port in Japan on 14 October 2022 for a six-week voyage to the French port of Fos-sur-Mer. It will be the 15th (of 19) toroidal field coils to reach ITER.
14 October 2022 Download New D-shaped coil en route from Japan Toshiba Energy Systems & Solutions in Japan has finalized toroidal field coil #15 for the Japanese Domestic Agency, which is contributing nine D-shaped coils to ITER. TF15 took the first step of its voyage on 27 September when it was loaded onto a barge.
27 September 2022 Download Already on a barge PF1, ITER's smallest poloidal field coil, was manufactured in Russia directly atop a transport barge at the Sredne-Nevsky Shipyard near St Petersburg. The barge will be tugged backward out of the construction hall and into the Neva River; then, the coil and its platform will be transferred to a ship to begin the journey to ITER. (More at: https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/2541) 30 July 2022 Download 14th vertical coil arrives Europe delivers TF14, which happens to be the 14th toroidal field coil to arrive on site, early in the morning of 7 July. Vertical coil deliveries will conclude next year with the arrival of number 19.
08 July 2022 Download 14th toroidal field coil en route to ITER The European and Japanese Domestic Agencies are responsible for delivering a total of 19 toroidal field coils to ITER. The 14th coil (TF14 from Europe) is travelling now. Only 5 remain.
05 July 2022 Download On the water The European coil TF17 crosses through the Canal de Caronte (Martigues) to reach the inland sea of Berre. The ITER Itinerary begins on the other side...
27 April 2022 Download Toroidal field coil #17 loaded in Marghera, Italy TF17 is the seventh D-shaped superconducting coil to be finalized at SIMIC (Italy) for the account of the European Domestic Agency and shipped to ITER. It is seen here during loading at the port of Marghera.
19 April 2022 Download 2nd night of transport for 440-tonne vacuum vessel sector Vacuum vessel sector #8, from Korea, is travelling this week at night along the ITER Itinerary. It will reach the ITER site early in the morning on Friday 1 April.
30 March 2022 Download Japan delivers magnet coil Toroidal field coil #16, from Japan, reaches the ITER site in the early hours of Friday 18 March.
18 March 2022 Download Vacuum vessel sector reaches France ITER vacuum vessel sector #8 has arrived from Korea. It was removed from the ship and placed directly on the barge that will bring the 440-tonne component across the inland sea of Berre to the start of the ITER road itinerary. This is the third sector procured by the Korean Domestic Agency. Photo: Emmanuel Bonici 09 March 2022 Download Unloading a coil Toroidal field coil #16, from Japan, is unloaded from the barge that carried it across the inland sea of Berre. The 360-tonne coil is expected at ITER in mid-March.
24 February 2022 Download Japan delivers 10th coil case to Europe Each of ITER's large D-shaped toroidal field magnets is formed from a superconducting winding pack protected by a massive steel case. Whereas the fabrication of 19 winding packs is split between Europe and Japan, the 19 coil case structures are procured entirely by Japan. In March, the tenth and final toroidal field coil case structure was delivered to SIMIC, in Italy, by the Japanese Domestic Agency.
21 February 2022 Download Unloaded at Fos-sur-Mer: toroidal field coil #16 Toroidal field coil #16, from Japan, is unloaded from the vessel at Fos-sur-Mer, France, on 14 February 2022.
14 February 2022 Download Next coil to reach ITER: TF16 Toshiba Energy Systems & Solutions Corporation manufactured this ITER toroidal field coil (TF16) on behalf of the Japanese Domestic Agency. It will be the twelfth vertical coil (out of 19) to reach ITER.
27 January 2022 Download Vacuum vessel sector ships from Korea A 440-tonne ITER vacuum vessel sector—the third procured by ITER Korea—is loaded onto a ship at Ulsan Port. It is expected on site at ITER in March.
26 January 2022 Download Toroidal field coil case, travelling from Japan A 160-tonne package (the case for an ITER toroidal field coil) is loaded onto a ship in Japan. Once joined by a toroidal field coil manufactured by Toshiba Energy Systems & Solutions Corporation, the load will leave port. For more on toroidal field coil cases, see this article in the ITER Newsline: https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/2602.
20 January 2022 Download 360-tonne coil makes its way to ITER From Berre l'Etang to Saint-Paul-lex-Durance, the road to ITER is 104 km long. Most components, like this toroidal field coil (TF4) procured by Europe, will travel over four nights.
13 December 2021 Download Coil after coil This D-shaped toroidal field coil shipped by Japan, TF2, will be the tenth vertical coil received at ITER when it arrives later this week. Two others are travelling.
24 November 2021 Download Sixth European coil travelling Europe is about to deliver its sixth toroidal field coil to ITER. TF4 has just been off-boarded at Fos-sur-Mer.
22 November 2021 Download Toroidal field coils: a dozen now completed Another toroidal field coil (TF16) produced by Toshiba, sub-contractor to ITER Japan, is brought to port. When it arrives, it will be the 12th D-shaped coil (out of 19 expected).
17 November 2021 Download ITER magnet crosses Provence Toroidal field coil #10, from Japan, is travelling along the ITER Itinerary to Saint-Paul-lez-Durance and the project site.
15 November 2021 Download European coil loaded at Marghera, Italy A toroidal field coil produced in Europe, TF4, is loaded onto a vesel at Marghera port (Italy) for shipment to ITER.
12 November 2021 Download Back to back coils Back to back, two toroidal field coils shipped by Japan are unloaded at the port of Fos-sur-Mer from the same vessel. (Pictured: TF10) 29 October 2021 Download Back to back coils Back to back, two toroidal field coils shipped by Japan are unloaded at the port of Fos-sur-Mer from the same vessel. (Pictured: TF2) 28 October 2021 Download A second central solenoid module in transit to ITER A 110-tonne central solenoid module—the second out of seven modules expected from the United States—is in transit to ITER. (It arrived on site on 14 October.) Six modules will be stacked to form the central solenoid magnet.
07 October 2021 Download US ITER delivers first central solenoid module The backbone of the ITER magnet system, the central solenoid, will be assembled from six independent coil packs (modules) stacked in an 18-metre-tall structure. The first central solenoid module is delivered by the United States on 9 September 2021.
09 September 2021 Download Unusual: two magnet coils in same ship hold Early September, two D-shaped toroidal field coils leave Japan on the same boat: TF2 manufactured by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (top) and TF10 manufactured by Toshiba Energy Systems & Solutions (bottom).
09 September 2021 Download Last night of travel for central solenoid module It takes three nights for the first central solenoid module shipped by the United States to travel the 104 km between Berre l'Etang and the ITER site.
08 September 2021 Download Europe delivers another vertical coil A D-shaped toroidal field coil is delivered to ITER before dawn on 3 September 2021. The coil—TF6 from Europe—is the eighth vertical coil to reach the project site in Saint-Paul-lez-Durance, France.
03 September 2021 Download Second vacuum vessel sector received from Korea The 440-tonne component arrived in the early hours of 27 August 2021. Korea is responsible for delivering two other sectors to the ITER Project; these are currently 96% and 89% completed on the factory floor at Hyundai Heavy Industries in Ulsan.
27 August 2021 Download Huge At 600 tonnes, including housing and the transport frame, vacuum vessel sectors are among the heaviest loads to travel the ITER Itinerary. They are also among the largest.
26 August 2021 Download European coil completes barge crossing Toroidal field coil #6, which left Marghera, Italy, on 14 August, has safely crossed the inland sea of Berre. It will now travel by convoy along the ITER Itinerary to the project site.
25 August 2021 Download Major machine component travels across Provence Vacuum vessel #1(7) has spent its first night travelling along the ITER Itinerary from the Berre landing zone to the village of Lançon de Provence. The huge component is expected on Friday 27 August. (Korean sector #1 will be installed in position #7 in the ITER Tokamak pit, hence the designation "#1(7)"...) 24 August 2021 Download This D-shaped coil leaving Japan is ITER's ninth ITER Members Japan and Europe are supplying the 18 D-shaped toroidal field coils required in the machine, plus an additional spare. With the loading of TF2 in Kobe, Japan, on 22 August—which is the ninth finalized coil—we are approaching the half-way mark.
22 August 2021 Download Japanese coil loaded at Yokohama Toroidal field coil #10 (TF10) is loaded at Yokohama Port on 20 August 2021. This is the fourth D-shaped coil supplied by the Japanese Domestic Agency to the ITER Project (out of 9 expected).
20 August 2021 Download Europe sends 5th toroidal field coil A fifth toroidal field coil completed by European contractors ASG Superconductors and SIMIC (TF6) crosses the inland sea of Berre by barge. It is now only 100 km from the ITER site.
18 August 2021 Download Another vacuum vessel sector about to reach ITER Protected in a cabin-like case, vacuum vessel sector #1(7) makes the short trip across the inland sea between Fos-sur-Mer and Berre l'Etang. It has been travelling since late June from Korea.
16 August 2021 Download D-shaped coil leaving Marghera, Italy Europe is supplying 10 toroidal field coils to the ITER project. Pictured being loaded at the Italian port of Marghera, Italy, is toroidal field coil #6 (TF6).
14 August 2021 Download Second central solenoid module travelling At the same time as a first 110-tonne central solenoid module is just kilometres from the ITER site, a second is leaving the General Atomics workshop in Poway, California. Module #2 was loaded on 13 August for truck transport to the port of Houston, Texas.
13 August 2021 Download Vacuum vessel sector unloaded at French port ITER vacuum vessel sector #1(7) is unloaded at the port of Fos-sur-Mer in France after a five-week voyage from Korea. © Emmanuel BONICI 07 August 2021 Download First central solenoid module closes in on destination This 110-tonne component is one of six independent magnets that will be assembled as a tower to form the ITER central solenoid. It will be delivered to ITER on 9 September; a second module is already "en route" from the United States.
03 August 2021 Download First central solenoid module reaches France A 110-tonne ITER central solenoid magnet module is unloaded in Fos-sur-Mer, France, on 27 July 2021, after a one-month voyage from Houston, Texas. Six modules will be stacked in a supporting structure at ITER to form the tall central magnet of the ITER machine.
27 July 2021 Download Vessel segment transferred between production sites In July, one segment of vacuum vessel sector #5 travels between two European workshops: Walter Tosto and Westinghouse/Mangiarotti. At Mangiarotti, the four segments of sector #5 will be brought together and welded into the D-shaped whole.
19 July 2021 Download Central solenoid: first module on boat Safely secured in the hold of the OCEAN GRAND, the 110-tonne central solenoid magnet coil will reach Fos-sur-Mer, France, later this month, and the ITER site in early September. A second module will leave the premises of General Atomics, contractor to US ITER, in August.
07 July 2021 Download First central solenoid module travelling The first central solenoid module produced by General Atomics on behalf of US ITER is travelling now between Poway, California, and the port of Houston, Texas. It is seen here crossing Arizona...
24 June 2021 Download A hidden jewel Inside of nondescript housing, a jewel travels. The 440-tonne all-metal sector #1(7) of the ITER vacuum vessel is a marvel of engineering, its realization testimony to the world's most advanced manufacturing processes.
23 June 2021 Download 2000+ km to travel by road The first central solenoid module is travelling 2,400 kilometres between southern California and Houston, Texas. The long trailer offers the module the lowest height profile possible (under 4.5 metres) to avoid obstacles such as bridges, wires and poles.
21 June 2021 Download Special housing for vacuum vessel sector #1 The casing for vacuum vessel sector #1(7) resembles a small cabin. As it is the second time round for Hyundai Heavy Industries (after the shipment of sector #6 in 2020) lessons learned have resulted in a more spacious cabin (to avoid clashes as the component is removed) and an easier-to-remove cover.
09 June 2021 Download Ready to travel: vacuum vessel sector from Korea Four hundred and forty tonnes of steel are packed into a specialized crate for shipment to France. Vacuum vessel sector #1(7) is ready to leave Hyundai Heavy Industries in Ulsan, Korea.
09 June 2021 Download Korea prepares to ship vacuum vessel sector #7 At Hyundai Heavy Industries in Korea, a 440-tonne vacuum vessel sector #1(7) is being prepared for shipment. This is the second sector of four to be procured by the Korean Domestic Agency (the first arrived on site in 2020). Korean sector #1 will be installed in position #7 in the ITER Tokamak pit, hence the designation "#1(7)".
28 May 2021 Download Arrival A 360-tonne magnet coil, TF3 from the European Domestic Agency, is seen early in the morning on 7 May 2021, still on its double transport trailer. It has just travelled the 104 kilometres of the ITER Itinerary, from Berre l'Etang, and has yet to be moved into storage.
07 May 2021 Download New magnet from Europe Europe delivers toroidal field coil #3 on 7 May 2021. This 360-tonne component is the fourth in the series from Europe; (three others have been delivered by Japan).
07 May 2021 Download Toroidal field winding packs in Europe: only one more to go This D-shaped toroidal field winding pack is the ninth to leave the ASG factory in Italy and to be shipped to SIMIC (Italy) for insertion into a structural case. Now just one remains to meet Europe's commitment of providing 10 toroidal field coils to the ITER Project.
27 April 2021 Download Europe's TF3 coil is travelling Toroidal field coil #3, procured by Europe, is travelling now to ITER. In this photo, the 360-tonne vertical coil is being loaded in Fos-sur-Mer on the barge that will take it across the inland sea of Berre to the start of the ITER Itinerary.
21 April 2021 Download Third Japanese magnet coil arrives In the early hours of 12 March 2021, toroidal field coil #8 (TF8) from Japan reaches the ITER site.
12 March 2021 Download Crossing through Provence A 360-tonne toroidal field coil—TF8 from Japan—crosses Provence along the ITER Itinerary on its way to the ITER campus. It is expected on site on 12 March.
09 March 2021 Download Toroidal field coil #8 arriving Toroidal field coil #8 is offloaded at Fos-sur-Mer after a long sea voyage from Japan. This is the third Japanese coil to travel to ITER.
15 February 2021 Download Travelling by night ITER component convoys travel by night in order to minimize the disturbance to the local communities. Fifty convoys out of an expected 250 have travelled the Itinerary to date. (Pictured: a magnet feeder component from China.) 04 February 2021 Download Feeder components travel by barge Magnet feeder components shipped by China and destined for ITER transit by barge across the inland sea of Berre to the starting point of the ITER Itinerary. (Read more about the Itinerary here: https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/3559.) 01 February 2021 Download Each transport operation is unique A convoy along the ITER Itinerary is never routine... Moments before this convoy departs with segments of the ITER cryostat top lid, a final team meeting brings together the drivers, the technical operators and the security forces to review the specifics of the operation.
28 January 2021 Download Japan prepares to ship toroidal field coil #8 ITER toroidal field coil #8 has arrived at Kobe port from Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, and is being prepared for ocean transport. This is the third toroidal field coil completed by Japan out of nine that it has procurement responsibility for.
12 January 2021 Download Cryostat lid segments arriving Several segments of the cryostat lid, including the central disk, are travelling now along the ITER Itinerary. These components left India late last year.
11 January 2021 Download An early morning arrival A 360-tonne toroidal field coil (TF5, from Europe) arrives in the early hours of 18 December.
18 December 2020 Download European coil travelling European magnet coil TF5 leaves the staging area at Berre l'Etang to start on the ITER Itinerary. The 360-tonne component, tightly wrapped in protective material, is supported by a sturdy 80-tonne transport frame.
14 December 2020 Download Not a light load A 360-tonne ITER magnet (toroidal field coil #5) is loaded on board a ship in Italy for transport to Marseille's port of Fos. This will be the third toroidal field magnet delivered by Europe and the fifth (out of 19) received by ITER overall.
04 December 2020 Download Feeder component leaving China Transporters find a way to pack another unwieldly ITER component for international travel by sea. This correction coil feeder component, leaving China, will be installed at the bottom of the ITER machine as part of the feeder system that carries cooling fluid and electricity into the magnets.
02 December 2020 Download Third European toroidal field coil travelling The third toroidal field coil to be finalized by European contractor SIMIC (TF05) leaves the factory in Marghera, Italy, on 20 November and is expected on site at ITER in mid-December.
19 November 2020 Download New thermal shield sectors Each vacuum vessel sector requires it own thermal shield. Mid-November, thermal shield panels for vacuum vessel sector #1 (VV#1) successfully crossed the inland sea Berre in the south of France and started on the ITER Itinerary to reach the site.
18 November 2020 Download Clamping plates leave China Clamping plates for ITER's sixth poloidal field coil (PF6) are leaving Chinese manufacturer HTXL. These actively cooled plates will hold the coil in position on the broader toroidal field coil structure. More at: https://www.iter.org/fr/newsline/-/3239 05 November 2020 Download Cryostat top lid segments reach France Five cryostat lid segments (out of 12) have reached France from India. The will be assembled into the final 665-tonne section of the ITER cryostat in the on-site Cryostat Workshop.
21 September 2020 Download Feeder elements arrive from China On 10 September, two large high-tech components are delivered for the magnet feeder system—one in-cryostat feeder for a bottom correction coil and one feeder ring for a side correction coil.
10 September 2020 Download Top lid segments reach France A portion of the cryostat top lid elements have arrived in Fos-sur-Mer from India.
09 September 2020 Download Thermal shield sections from Korea Thermal shield panels for vacuum vessel sector #5 are transported by barge on their way to ITER. All vacuum vessel thermal shielding has been completed by Korea and is arriving by batch.
03 September 2020 Download First night along the Itinerary for European coil TF11 A 360-tonne superconducting coil—toroidal field coil #11, from Europe—starts on one leg of the ITER Itinerary on 31 August. Large ITER convoys like this one travel by night to minimize disturbance along local roadways.
31 August 2020 Download ITER D-shaped magnet on the road After crossing the inland sea Berre by barge, European coil TF11 was transferred to the modular transporter and tied down. It will begin its slow ride to ITER this week.
29 August 2020 Download Top lid leaves India On 19 August 2020, the 13 segments of the cryostat top lid were loaded onto a vessel at Hazira port (one segment is pictured). ITER machine assembly begins and ends with the cryostat—the base is inserted first; the top lid is inserted last.
19 August 2020 Download First vacuum vessel sector to travel along the Itinerary The transport of an ITER vacuum vessel sector (a load of 800 tonnes including housing and vehicle) is at the upper limit of what is possible in terms of weight and dimensions along the ITER Itinerary. In this picture, vacuum vessel sector #6 (manufactured in Korea) is shown moving through a narrow passage just a few kilometres from ITER.
06 August 2020 Download Fourth D-shaped coil on its way The European Domestic Agency is ready to deliver another toroidal field coil to the ITER Organization. In this picture, the 360-tonne, D-shaped coil (TF11) is being loaded onto a ship in the port of Marghera, near Venice, Italy.
03 August 2020 Download First vacuum vessel sector reaches France Vacuum vessel sector #6, shipped by Korea, reaches Fos-sur-Mer, France, on 21 July and is unloaded the following day. This 440-tonne component, which was more than 10 years in the making, will now travel along a special road itinerary to reach the ITER site.
22 July 2020 Download More feeder elements from China Magnet feeder elements continue to arrive from China. Two in-cryostat feeders for the side and bottom correction coils, which arrived in France on 7 July, need to be installed in the Tokamak pit early in the machine assembly process.
09 July 2020 Download Third toroidal field coil arrives at ITER Three 360-tonne, D-shaped toroidal field coils have been received since April 2020--TF9 from Europe, TF12 from Japan, and now TF 13, also from Japan. The two Japanese coils will enter into the first sub-assembly of the vacuum vessel, in association with vacuum vessel sector #6 from Korea, expected later this month in France. Nineteen toroidal field coils in all are under construction.
01 July 2020 Download Arrival on site of poloidal field coil #6 After four nights on the ITER Itinerary, poloidal field coil #6 (PF6) is delivered to the ITER site. Procured by Europe and manufactured in China, PF6 will be the first ITER magnet lowered into the machine assembly pit.
26 June 2020 Download First sector leaving Korea Wrapped tightly and protected in casing, vacuum vessel sector #6 is loaded on board an oceangoing vessel on 26 June 2020.
26 June 2020 Download The widest ITER load Poloidal field coil #6 (PF6) is the widest load planned for travel along the ITER Itinerary—11.5 metres (with its transport frame). Special modifications were necessary (see https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/3081).
22 June 2020 Download Vacuum vessel sector #6: ready to ship At Hyundai Heavy Industries' plant in Ulsan, ITER's first completed vacuum vessel sector, #6, is packed for international shipment.
19 June 2020 Download Magnets-en-Provence Two ITER magnets are stored in Berre l'Etang, waiting for transport along the ITER Itinerary to the site in Saint-Paul-lez-Durance: poloidal field coil #6 (left) which has travelled from China, and toroidal field coil #13 (right), which has travelled from Japan. The components weigh 400 and 360 tonnes respectively.
18 June 2020 Download Second Japanese coil reaches France Carefully ensconced in its transport frame, toroidal field coil #13 (TF13) is unloaded at Fos-sur-Mer, France. A few days more, and it will be at ITER.
13 June 2020 Download PF6 coil: on the way Poloidal field coil #6 (PF6), transport frame and trailer make a load weighing close to 800 tonnes. Photo: DAHER 12 June 2020 Download First, by barge Poloidal field coil #6 (PF6), procured by Europe and manufactured in China, is loaded onto a specially conceived barge at Fos-sur-Mer to cross the inland sea of Berre. The package that contains PF6 is 12 metres long, 11 metres wide and a little more than 4 metres high.
10 June 2020 Download Heaviest ITER coil: at ITER soon At 400 tonnes, poloidal field coil #6 (PF6) is the heaviest ITER magnet. After a one month sea voyage from China, it arrived at Fos-sur-Mer on 8 June.
08 June 2020 Download Magnet inner core leaves ASG Superconductors (Italy) The 110-tonne inner core of an ITER toroidal field coil leaves ASG Superconductors' La Spezia facility for transport to Marghera (Venice), where European contractor SIMIC will carry out the next steps of magnet assembly.
06 June 2020 Download Second D-shaped coil leaves Japan Toroidal field coil #13 (TF13) sails from Kobe harbour in Japan on 15 May 2020 and is expected reach France in mid-June. It will be associated with vacuum vessel #6 (from Korea) and another toroidal field coil (#12) in the first "sector sub assembly" of the ITER machine.
15 May 2020 Download Part of the trip by barge Part of a major assembly tool (the lower column of the in-pit column tool) has arrived in France and will travel next week along the ITER Itinerary. First, though, the component is delivered by barge to Berre-l'Etang.
13 May 2020 Download Curved feeder segments ready to travel Two giant feeder elements--which will be installed under the machine to relay electrical power and cryogens to the correction coils--leave the factory in China. Thirty-one feeders, each made up of three constitutive parts, will service the four superconducting magnet systems of the ITER machine.
29 April 2020 Download Second magnet coil reaches ITER The first toroidal field coil manufactured in Japan arrives at the ITER site in the early hours of 25 April 2020. Two D-shaped toroidal field coils are now on site; the others will arrive according to machine assembly needs over the next three years.
25 April 2020 Download First magnet coil reaches ITER The first toroidal field coil manufactured in Europe travels the last leg of the ITER Itinerary, reaching the ITER site in the early hours of 17 April. The specialized transport vehicle will now be sent back to Port de la Pointe (Berre l'Etang) to pick up a second toroidal field coil—this one recently arrived from Japan.
17 April 2020 Download Exceptional Two D-shaped toroidal field coils—one procured for the ITER Project by Japan, the other by Europe—have been unloaded on the northeastern shore of the inland sea Etang de Berre, at Port de la Pointe. One after the other, they will soon commence their 104-kilometre, four-night journey to the ITER site.
10 April 2020 Download Clear sailing An ITER magnet—toroidal field coil #12 produced in Japan—is seen on a barge as it crosses the inland sea Etang de Berre.
10 April 2020 Download Electrotechnical equipment leaves Russia The Russian Domestic Agency is sending the latest batch of electrotechnical equipment to ITER in ten tractor trailers. Six will leave first for the 3,000-kilometre journey to France; four others will leave later this month.
07 April 2020 Download Japan's first toroidal field coil reaches France One month to the day after it left the port of Kobe, the first toroidal field coil sent by Japan arrives in Fos-sur-Mer on the "UHL Fusion" on 7 April.
07 April 2020 Download Another large assembly tool from Korea A massive, tree-like assembly tool—formed of a trunk and branch-like beams—will support the vacuum vessel sectors at ITER while they are welded. One part of the central column (the lower cylinder) has arrived in France from Korea.
28 March 2020 Download Getting closer: Europe's first toroidal field coil Procured by Europe and finalized in Italy, toroidal field coil #9 (TF9) is seen here as it approaches the narrow Caronte Canal in Martigues. France. The massive load (600 tonnes) will reach the ITER site in the early morning of 17 April. Photo DAHER 23 March 2020 Download ITER magnet leaves China A 400-tonne poloidal field magnet leaves Hefei, China, on 22 March for transport to port and a sea voyage to France. Poloidal field coil #6 (PF6) was manufactured at the Institute of Plasma Physics Chinese Academy of Sciences (ASIPP) on behalf of contributing party Fusion for Energy, the European Domestic Agency.
22 March 2020 Download Europe ships its first D-shaped coil The European Domestic Agency has shipped the first toroidal field coil of an industrial procurement program that has involved 700 people (40 companies) over 10 years. This first D-shaped coil—of 10 that are in production in Europe—was unloaded at the port of Fos-sur-Mer, France, on 19 March.
19 March 2020 Download First D-shaped coil: floating ITER's first toroidal field coil is about to embark on a month-long voyage from the port of Kobe, Japan, to Fos-sur-Mer, France. Component and packaging together weigh nearly 500 tonnes.
28 February 2020 Download Second set of thermal shielding Thermal shielding around the vacuum vessel will minimize heat loads transferred by thermal radiation and conduction from warm components to the components and structures that operate at 4.5K. The thermal shield elements for ITER's second vacuum vessel sector (sector #7) arrived in Fos-sur-Mer, France, in early February.
03 February 2020 Download Night transport A D-shaped toroidal field winding pack leaves the ASG Superconductors factory in La Spezia, Italy, to be transported to SIMIC S.p.a for insertion into the steel casing. European contractors are producing 10 toroidal field winding packs (out of 19) for ITER.
10 December 2019 Download Arriving next at ITER Shipped by China, these large in-cryostat feeders will be installed under the machine as the last link of 30- to 50-metre long magnet feeders that relay cryogens and electrical power into the ITER magnets.
02 December 2019 Download Assembly support frames arriving These frames will support panels of thermal shielding as they are aligned and installed on the vacuum vessel sectors. The transport vehicles have been backed onto a barge in order to cross the inland sea Etang de Berre; they will arrive by road at ITER next week.
27 November 2019 Download Vacuum vessel thermal shield loaded in Korea The thermal shield for ITER's first vacuum vessel sector (sector #6) is loaded onto an ocean going vessel in Busan, Korea, on 14 September. (One load hangs suspended by the crane; another waits on the quay.) The loads are expected at ITER in October.
14 September 2019 Download First thermal shield segments on their way from Korea Elements of the ITER thermal shield—steel panels coated with low-emissivity silver to protect "cold" components such as the superconducting magnets from thermal radiation—are on their way from Korea. The cylindrical-shaped lower cryostat thermal shield (50 tonnes) and one sector of vacuum vessel thermal shield (43) are expected in September at ITER.
01 September 2019 Download Korea ships "upending" tool The main frames of a specialized assembly tool weighing 220 tonnes are loaded on board a vessel departing the port of Ulsan in Korea. Tool is designed to raise components weighing up to 450 tonnes from horizontal to upright and will be needed for some of ITER's first major machine assembly activities next year.
29 August 2019 Download Coming from China: magnet feeder components These large semi-circular components leaving China are part of magnet feeders that will transport cryogens and electrical power to the bottom correction coil magnets. Designed by ASIPP for the Chinese Domestic Agency and manufactured by the Hefei KEYE Electro Physical Equipment Company, these feeder sections are destined for installation inside the cryostat, connecting directly to the magnets. They are expected at ITER in September.
02 August 2019 Download Feeder segment leaves factory in China This feeder segment (an in-cryostat feeder) will sit under the machine to connect a bottom correction coil to its supply of electricity, cryogens and instrumentation. It is one of 100 large feeder components that will make their way from China to ITER in the coming years.
22 July 2019 Download "Control house" ships from India This 23-metre-long E-house contains the variable frequency drives, HVAC units and electric panels needed to control ITER cooling water equipment like pumps and valves. It shipped from Hazira Port on 8 June.
21 June 2019 Download Testing the transport frame for poloidal magnet #6 This massive frame has been designed to support a 400-tonne component—ITER poloidal field coil #6, which is a European contribution that is being manufactured in China. Load testing is underway, before the component travels later this year from Hefei, China, to the ITER site in France.
20 June 2019 Download Indian cryostat segments have reached Fos-sur-Mer port Sixty degree segments of the ITER cryostat (upper cylinder) are being offloaded in Fos-sur-Mer, France, after a long sea voyage from India.
10 May 2019 Download Thermal shield segments packed for delivery in Korea The first finalized sector of the vacuum vessel thermal shield has been packed for shipment at SFA Engineering Corp in Changwon, Korea. The thermal shield panels will be mounted on vacuum vessel sector #6 during pre-assembly activities at ITER.
07 May 2019 Download Upper cryostat cylinder on the move A segment of the cryostat upper cylinder leaves the Larsen & Toubro factory in Hazira, India, for the port. In one month the component and five others like it will have reached ITER.
18 April 2019 Download Elements of central solenoid support structure arriving Elements of the central solenoid support structure—lower key blocks—are loaded at Petersen Inc. in Ogden, Utah (US) for delivery to ITER.
04 March 2019 Download 2,000 km: through eight canals, four tunnels and 250 locks For this cryogenic termination cold box to reach ITER from Switzerland, it must travel 2,000 km through the waterways of Europe under the guidance of ITER's logistics transporter DAHER and its contractor Compagnie Fluviale de Transport.
15 February 2019 Download At home in the cold A 63-tonne component (a cryogenic termination cold box) procured by the Indian Domestic Agency is on its way to Basel harbour, from the Linde Kryotechnik factory near Zürich. This "cold" component is part of ITER's cryodistribution system.
24 January 2019 Download Heading for the ITER Itinerary Four transformers travel by barge along the Canal de Caronte, a waterway that connects the Mediterranean Sea to an inland sea called Berre l'Etang. The four transformers—one shipped by China and three by Korea—will reach ITER on 23 November.
19 November 2018 Download Global Logistics Provider: DAHER ITER's global logistics provider DAHER plans and manages the transport of ITER components from a industrial and logistics management center - the DAHER control room - that uses sophisticated tools to bring each convoy safely to ITER. © DAHER 15 August 2018 Download First coil case structure for integration in Japan The first toroidal field coil case structure procured by Japan leaves Korea in early July for transport to the Japanese contractor for coil insertion. Each of ITER's 18 toroidal field coils is composed of a 110-tonne superconducting winding pack and a surrounding coil structure in steel. Japan is procuring all toroidal field coil cases from contractors in Japan and Korea. Half of them will be integrated with superconducting winding packs in Japan, and the other half in Europe 05 July 2018 Download Magnet power supply equipment reaches ITER A few hours before dawn on 30 May, a convoy of three converter-transformers reaches the ITER site after three nights of travel along the 104-kilometre ITER Itinerary. The 90-tonne units were procured by Korea for ITER's magnet power conversion system.
04 June 2018 Download Europe delivers a new batch of specialized tanks Late May, two small holding tanks and two larger feed tanks are delivered by the European Domestic Agency for the ITER water detritation system.
31 May 2018 Download Toroidal field coil case Segments of a 190-tonne steel toroidal field coil case leave Ulsan, Korea, for Venice, Italy. Japan is procuring 19 coil cases through Japanese and Korean contractors; Europe is receiving ten of these for assembly with superconducting toroidal field winding packs produced by contractors in Italy.
24 May 2018 Download European winding pack takes to the road The 110-tonne inner core of a toroidal field magnet coil has left the manufacturing facility in Europe where series production is underway (ASG) to be inserted into its outer case by another contractor, SIMIC. Photo: F4E 08 May 2018 Download Quench tank moved into place On 23 April, a 35-metre-long tank is moved from storage to be installed near the cryoplant. It is one of two designed to hold helium from the Tokamak's magnetic system in case of a sudden loss of superconductivity (a quench).
23 April 2018 Download Four large tanks Large vapour suppression tanks reach France in March, shipped by an ITER Organization supplier in China. The five-metre-tall tanks are shown here crossing the Canal de Caronte on their way to the start of the 104-km road itinerary to the ITER site. © DAHER 23 March 2018 Download Transformers from Korea Two transformers for the magnet power conversion system arrive from Korea in January and are immediately installed on site.
31 January 2018 Download Cryostat segments, repeat The last of the tier two segments for the lower cylinder of the cryostat arrive at the ITER site.
08 December 2017 Download Heading for cold testing The first European winding pack for ITER's toroidal field coils leaves the ASG facility in La Spezia, Italy on 20 November. The 110-tonne component is en route to SIMIC SpA for cold testing and insertion into a steel case.
20 November 2017 Download Cryostat segments delivered Second-tier segments for the lower cylinder of the cryostat make their way along the heavy haul road that leads to the platform.
14 November 2017 Download Magnet feeder component arrives next door The first segment of one of ITER's 31 magnet feeders has arrived from China and been delivered to the MIFI facility (Magnet Infrastructure Facilities for ITER)—a workshop operated by a joint team from ITER and the French Alternative Energies and Atomic Energy Commission (CEA) to develop and qualify the ITER magnet elements and their assembly procedures. Testing is underway.
25 October 2017 Download Last cryogenic tanks delivered by Europe With Europe's delivery of the last two tanks in October (of eleven), all of the storage tanks for liquid and gaseous helium and nitrogen are now at ITER. They will be installed near the cryoplant in the coming months.
23 October 2017 Download SPIDER beam source leaves for Italy In this wooden case, an important realization for the SPIDER testbed in Padua, Italy (Consorzio RFX): the negative ion beam source, manufactured in Europe.
13 October 2017 Download Segments of the cryostat leave India On 1 October, seven large segments of the ITER cryostat left the port of Hazira, India, for their ocean crossing to France. These segments, weighing approximately 190 tonnes, form the second tier of the cryostat lower cylinder. Manufactured by Larsen & Toubro in India, they will be assembled and welded in the on-site Cryostat Workshop at ITER.
09 October 2017 Download Assembly platform for the central solenoid arrives The crate arriving in this ITER storage facility contains part of the central solenoid assembly platform. Designed to support the 1,000-tonne final central solenoid with a security margin of 300 tonnes, the platform (procured by the US) will be installed in the ITER Assembly Hall.
05 October 2017 Download Transformers from China Four converter-transformers from China were delivered on Wednesday, 27 September. They will soon take their place outside of the Magnet Power Conversion buildings.
27 September 2017 Download Roll on/Roll off A new roll on/roll off ramp has been built at the Mediterranean port of Fos-sur-Mer. It has been designed to facilitate the transhipment of ITER components, but is also available to other users.
26 September 2017 Download Busbars on their way from Russia These DC aluminium busbars, fabricated by the Efremov Institute in Saint Petersburg, Russia, are part of the most recent shipment of electrotechnical equipment that has been dispatched by the Russian Domestic Agency. Eighty-five tonnes of busbars, plus other components, are on their way.
07 September 2017 Download Arrival of pre-production cryopump Part of Europe's contributions to ITER, six cryopumps will be installed around the ITER vacuum vessel and two others in the cryostat to maintain ultra-high vacuum conditions. A first pre-production cryopump reaches ITER on 22 August to undergo operational mechanical testing. © F4E 22 August 2017 Download Cryoline stored This insulated cryoline from India has been unloaded and stored temporarily on site.
11 August 2017 Download Crane beams arrive Europe is equipping the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility with a new heavy-lift gantry crane. Three of four crane beams arrive on site on 25 July.
25 July 2017 Download First case segment for toroidal field coils leaves Japan The toroidal field coil cases are massive structures in steel that will house the D-shaped 110-tonne superconducting winding packs. Japan is responsible for 19 complete coil case sets (including one spare). The first completed case segment left Mitsubishi Heavy Industries in Japan late July (photo) for shipment to Korea, where part of the coil case fabrication is taking place.
21 July 2017 Download First cryolines reach ITER After a one-month sea voyage from India and a brief trip along the roads of Provence, the first cryolines have been unloaded on site. Five kilometres of these complex multi-process vacuum-insulated lines will deliver cooling power from the cryoplant to systems that need it such as the ITER magnets and cryopumps.
03 July 2017 Download On site storage for tool Not far from the Assembly Hall where the tool will be installed, segments of the first SSAT tool (for vacuum vessel Sector Sub-Assembly Tool) are stored under protective tarpaulin.
22 June 2017 Download Tool segments arrive on site At ITER, two massive sector sub-assembly tools will suspend and equip the vacuum vessel sectors in the Assembly Hall before their installation in the Tokamak Pit. Following fabrication, assembly and testing in Korea, the first of the giant tools (22 m tall, 800 tonnes) is on its way to ITER in batches. The first crates reached the site on 22 June.
22 June 2017 Download Transformer from China An AC/DC transformer travels at night on 20 June to reach the ITER site. It was shipped by China for ITER's poloidal field coil electrical transformation system.
20 June 2017 Download Delivered Delivered to temporary storage on 1 June, these three tanks for gaseous helium will be installed at a later date near the cryoplant in a large exterior zone reserved for the storage of helium and nitrogen in liquid and gaseous forms.
01 June 2017 Download Gas storage tanks on their way Three storage tanks for gaseous helium are on their way to ITER, shipped by the European Member as part of its contributions to the ITER cryoplant.
31 May 2017 Download Tanks arriving Two (out of six) gaseous helium tanks supplied by Europe arrive at the industrial port of Marseille in May. © DAHER 20 May 2017 Download First batch of cryolines has left India The distribution of cryogenic power at ITER will require approximately five kilometres of cryolines. The first batch has just left India, which is responsible for procuring the cryolines, the warm lines and cryodistribution components.
17 May 2017 Download Largest tool to ship in batches Following successful factory acceptance tests, ITER's largest assembly tool has been dismantled and packed for shipment. The first batch of components is already travelling between Ulsan, Korea and Fos-sur-Mer, France and is expected on site late June.
11 May 2017 Download Heavyweights Electrical transformers weighing a combined 550 tonnes have arrived on site from China. They will be installed in their permanent positions in May.
13 April 2017 Download April arrivals A three-trailer convoy arrives at the ITER site early on 13 April carrying two electrical transformers from China and a helium storage tank delivered by Europe. The combined weight of the three components is 700 tonnes.
13 April 2017 Download Japan delivers high voltage power supply components to PRIMA Japan is supplying all the high voltage power supplies for MITICA, the full-scale ITER heating neutral beam under installation at the PRIMA neutral beam test facility in Italy. The DC filters delivered in March 2017 are the output sections of the five high voltage generators from -200 kV to -1MV, feeding the accelerator. They are contained in a big tank that will be assembled during the installation phase; later the tank will be filled with SF6 insulating gas at 6Bar.
15 March 2017 Download Curved cryostat segments Four segments of the ITER cryostat await transport on the pier in Fos-sur Mer, after arriving from India. They will be deliver one at a time to the ITER site.
13 March 2017 Download "E-houses" reach ITER Shipped from China, two components for the electrical switchyard reached ITER in early February: 8-metre-wide "E-houses." 09 February 2017 Download Transformers from China reach French port Two 300-tonne electrical transformers procured by China have reached France are in storage until their transfer to the ITER site along the 104-kilometre ITER Itinerary in March.
03 February 2017 Download Lower cylinder cryostat segments shipped Late January, six large steel elements of the ITER cryostat left the port of Hazira, India for their voyage to ITER. They represent the first tier of the cryostat lower cylinder. On site at ITER, assembly activities (welding, testing) for the base of the cryostat have been underway since September 2016.
26 January 2017 Download Ozonators from India Four containers—part of the "ozonator package" and containing ozone generators—left Hazira, India for ITER on 27 January 2017. Ozone will be used in the heat rejection system at ITER to limit the growth of bacteria.
26 January 2017 Download Fully furnished E-house Procured by China, two E-houses for the pulsed power electrical network (PPEN) were unloaded last week in Fos-sur-Mer and are scheduled for delivery to the ITER site on 9 February. © DAHER 18 January 2017 Download Coldboxes reach site Three "coldboxes" arrive at the ITER site in the early hours of 15 December. These large vessels contain key "cold" components for ITER's liquid helium plant. Photo: Francois Xavier Gros-Rosanvallon - Acapella Bleu 15 December 2016 Download Maritime leg for the cold boxes Seen from the air, two of the three cold boxes shipped by Air Liquide for ITER's cryoplant travel through the Canal du Galliffet in Martigues, France. A convoy of three 45-metre-long trailers is expected on site on 15 December. Photo: Francois Xavier Gros-Rosanvallon - Acapella Bleu 08 December 2016 Download PPEN transformers loaded in Shanghai On 29 November, two 300-tonne transformers for ITER's pulsed power electrical network (PPEN) were loaded aboard ship in Shanghai, China. They are expected to reach the Mediterranean port Fos-sur-Mer in January and the ITER site early February.
29 November 2016 Download E-houses shipped from China Accompanying the PPEN transformers on the boat from China are two E-houses, which are packed with I&C cubicles to relay orders from ITER's control room to the high voltage components of the 400 kV and 66 kV switchyards.
29 November 2016 Download Quench tanks delivered Two 35-metre quench tanks, part of Europe's contribution to the ITER cryoplant, arrive on site on 24 November.
24 November 2016 Download Heads up! Two "cold boxes" are en route for ITER. These vessels contain important cold components for ITER's liquid helium plant. ©AirLiquide_LaurentLelong 17 November 2016 Download Auxiliary cranes for the Assembly Hall Girders for the 50-tonne auxiliary cranes of the Assembly Hall are delivered on 8 November.
09 November 2016 Download Unloading 35-metre tanks Two 35-metre quench tanks for ITER's cryoplant, procured by Europe, arrive at Fos-sur-Mer in November. Photo: DAHER 07 November 2016 Download Pipes delivered In November, cooling water pipes are delivered for storage to a 9,000 m² warehouse located on site. This is the first shipment of "centralized" piping—that is piping for different cooling water systems procured from the same supplier for cost efficiency.
07 November 2016 Download 9,000 km ... and then an eyedropper Salt water can corrode metal parts. In order to test whether salt water has accumulated on the protective covering of the cryostat segments recently delivered to ITER, technicians use an eyedropper and a few drops of diluted silver nitrate. If salinity is found, the tarpaulins are rinsed off before being removed.
21 October 2016 Download Safely unloaded After a 9,000-km sea voyage, transport by barge, and finally a 104-km road trip along the ITER Itinerary, the last pieces of the cryostat base are unloaded in the on-site Cryostat Workshop on 20 October.
20 October 2016 Download Cryostat-en-Provence A 120-tonne segment of the ITER cryostat is captured "en route" to the ITER site. © AIF 19 October 2016 Download Two large tanks en route Two 35-metre tanks have left their production site in the Czeck Republic and are currently en route for ITER. Produced for the European contractor Air Liquide, they are destined for ITER's cryoplant.
19 October 2016 Download Last pieces of cryostat base arrive in France Three 120-tonne tier-2 cryostat base segments have been unloaded in Fos-sur-Mer, France, for transport to the ITER site. Shipped from India, these segments are the last major components required for the on-site assembly of the 1,250-tonne cryostat base.
08 October 2016 Download Cryoplant "cold boxes" packed for delivery Two of three liquid helium "cold boxes" are packed for transport to ITER. These vacuum vessels are part of the ITER cryoplant, housing key components for the process of cooling helium.
23 September 2016 Download Seamless piping received on site The first batch of seamless stainless steel piping for ITER's vacuum system is received in September 2016 for testing. Ten kilometres of pipes like these will connect vacuum pumps to the cryostat, vacuum vessel and neutral beam injector.
21 September 2016 Download Piping on way from India On 7 September 2016, India ships a new batch of piping to the ITER site. The piping is destined for the buried networks of the heat rejection, chilled water and component cooling water networks of the ITER installation.
05 September 2016 Download 360 tonnes of cryostat segments leave India The last shipment of cryostat base segments (three segments/120 tonnes each) leaves Hazira, India in early September. The voyage to the port of Fos-sur-Mer, in France, will take approximately one month.
01 September 2016 Download 360 tonnes of the ITER cryostat Three large 60° segments of the ITER cryostat base (tier 2) reached Fos-sur-Mer in mid-June and are expected in a three-trailer convoy soon at ITER.
15 June 2016 Download 300-tonne transformer reaches ITER A Highly Exceptional Load convoy carrying a 300-tonne electrical transformer procured by China reached the ITER site in the early hours of 6 June.
10 June 2016 Download Piloting all transport activities Near the Marseille-Provence airport, ITER's Global Logistics Provider DAHER operates a control room that tracks the movements of every component shipped by the Domestic Agencies to the ITER site.
04 June 2016 Download The first of three Chinese transformers reaches France China will be supplying three giant electrical transformers for ITER's pulsed power electrical network (PPEN). The first was unloaded in Fos, France on 1 June (picture) for delivery as a Highly Exceptional Load along the ITER Itinerary.
01 June 2016 Download Another batch of cryostat segments In late May, three segments of the ITER cryostat were loaded in India for travel to France. Also in the ship's hold—elements of the cryostat transportation frame. This frame—which will be re-assembled on site—will support the components, jigs and fixtures during the assembly process.
26 May 2016 Download Destination: ITER A double convoy on 21 April prepares to transport the second pair of Assembly Hall crane girders along the final leg of the ITER Itinerary to the ITER site. The 250-metre convoy is one of the longest to ever travel the roads of southern France.
21 April 2016 Download 13-metre transformer en route from China This 278-tonne transformer for ITER's pulsed power electrical network (PPEN) left the Chinese port of Tianjin on 17 April and is expected to reach France in early June. This is the first "Highly Exceptional Load" (HEL) delivered by the Chinese Domestic Agency as part of its in-kind procurement for ITER.
15 April 2016 Download PPEN transformers expected The first of three electrical transformers is en route from China for ITER's pulsed power electrical network (PPEN). These giant components will be installed on the ITER platform to feed power to the heating and control systems during plasma pulses.
13 April 2016 Download SPIDER testbed: 100 kV power supply components arrive from India The SPIDER test bed is a 1:1-scale ion source that will be used to develop the technology for the production of negative ions. Located at the PRIMA neutral beam test facility in Padua, Italy, components are currently arriving from participating partners Europe, India and Japan. In April, 13 trucks carried transformers, switching modules, controllers, high-voltage racks, cables, and disconnector switches supplied by India for the acceleration grid power supply from their arrival port in Venice to PRIMA.
12 April 2016 Download Special escort A 47-metre-long steel girder and its transport vehicle are transported by barge across the inland sea Etang de Berre. When they dock, there will still be 104 km to travel by road to the ITER site. © ITER Organization - Emmanuel Bonici 19 March 2016 Download First crane beam on site This 47-metre girder beam is the first of four to arrive on site for the heavy-lift cranes of the Assembly Building (the mirror-clad building at right). 18 March 2016 18 March 2016 Download Girders for the assembly cranes Two 47-metre long girders—destined to cross the width of the ITER Assembly Building in support of the trolley cranes—reach the Mediterranean port of Fos on 8 March. Four girder beams are expected in the next week at ITER, procured by Europe for the heavy lift assembly cranes.
09 March 2016 Download Busbars arrive from Russia In December, the first lot of Russian-procured busbars reach the ITER site. Over 5 km (500 tonnes) of these components that connect magnet coils to their power sources are expected from Russia under the terms of a Procurement Arrangement signed in 2011.
16 December 2015 Download First machine components arrive! ITER's first machine components are delivered in the early hours of 10 December—three 50-tonne, 60° segments for the cryostat base that were transported by trailer along the ITER Itinerary.
10 December 2015 Download Japan delivers its first contributions to PRIMA In December 2015, Japan delivers its first in-kind contributions to PRIMA, the neutral beam test facility for ITER in Padua, Italy. The pressure vessel and the step-up transformer are part of the power supply for the test bed MITICA, which is a full-scale prototype of the 1 MV heating neutral beam for ITER.
09 December 2015 Download From ship to barge Three of the six 60-degree segments of the cryostat base are readied for the crossing of the inland sea Etang-de-Berre. © Emmanuel Bonici 02 December 2015 Download First machine components dock Three weeks after leaving India, 460 tonnes of cryostat components arrive at the French port of Fos-sur-Mer on 24 November. The first segments of the ITER cryostat—part of its base—will be the first machine components to reach the ITER site.
24 November 2015 Download Last leg of the trip As part of their three-night journey to ITER, the drain tank convoy crosses the A51 highway twice. Five drain tanks shipped from the United States (two in May and three in September 2015) are now stored on the ITER site.
17 September 2015 Download Drain tanks en route Three drain tanks for ITER's cooling water system will be transported along the ITER Itinerary this week for delivery to the project construction site. Part of the US contribution to ITER, the tanks completed the maritime segment of the trip on 9 September, crossing inland waterways by barge (photo: Ben Slee, F4E).
10 September 2015 Download Successful ocean crossing for three US drain tanks Large-scale components for ITER's tokamak cooling water system were unloaded in the French port of Fos-sur-Mer on 6 September. Procured and shipped by the US as part of its in-kind contributions to the project, the drain tanks will now travel along the ITER Itinerary to the site.
06 September 2015 Download Pipes arrive Less than one month after their shipment from India, 24 cooling water pipes are delivered to the ITER Organization in southern France on 2 September.
02 September 2015 Download First load of cooling water piping shipped from India In early August 2015, two containers worth of cooling water piping (24 units) for ITER's chilled water and heat rejection systems were shipped from India.
04 August 2015 Download Last transformers reach site Three US-procured electrical tranformers are delivered to the ITER site early on 21 May 2015.
20 May 2015 Download Three transformers ready for transport to ITER On 13 May, three US-procured transformers are loaded onto trailers to await transport to the ITER site. Two had just been unloaded from their ocean going vessel; a third had been in storage for one month. All three are expected at ITER on Thursday 21 May.
13 May 2015 Download Drain tanks are delivered The first two drain tanks manufactured for ITER in the US travelled for three nights along the ITER Itinerary to reach the project site in Saint Paul-lez-Durance, France on 7 May. Photo: AIF-AP 2015 04 May 2015 Download First drain tanks from the US The first of five US-procured drain tanks for ITER's Tokamak Cooling Water System were unloaded from the container ship "BBC Zarate" on 26 April 2015.
26 April 2015 Download Second of four transformers unloaded after sea journey On Monday 20 April, an 87-tonne transformer was unloaded at the docks of Fos (Marseille). The second of four identical units, the transformer was procured by the US and manufactured in Korea.
20 April 2015 Download First water detritiation tank delivered On 20 March, a 20-tonne, 100 m³ tank destined for the ITER detritiation system is delivered. Manufactured by ENSA (Spain) and procured by the European Domestic Agency, it is one of two "emergency tanks" that will collect the tritiated water in case an abnormal situation develops during operations. A second was delivered on 2 April.
20 March 2015 Download As smooth as clockwork Everything went according to plan for ITER's first Highly Exceptional Load.
14 January 2015 Download After a night on the road Mission completed! By 5:00 a.m. the transformer is safely parked at the ITER site and all participants can enjoy a hot - and well deserved - cup of coffee.
14 January 2015 Download HEL #1 The sun rises on 14 January over the ITER site and over the first Highly Exceptional Load to be delivered to ITER.
14 January 2015 Download A warm welcome All had risen early: ITER senior management, the directors of several ITER Domestic Agencies, members of the ITER Electrical Engineering Division, and representatives of Agence Iter France and DAHER.
14 January 2015 Download Arrival home After 60 days on high seas and on the road, the 87-tonne transformer has arrived at its final destination.
14 January 2015 Download It takes a village ...
To guarantee the safety of the convoy and ensure that all operations go smoothly, over 100 people participated: representatives of ITER; DAHER (the ITER Logistics Service Provider); Agence Iter France; and French authorities.
14 January 2015 Download The dimensions of the convoy Together with the trailer, the first exceptional convoy for ITER weighed 126.8 tonnes and measured 20 m (length) x 3.35 m (width) x 5 m (height).
13 January 2015 Download A glorious sky The weather conditions could not have been better when the barge "Scirocco" left the docks in Fos-sur-Mer.
12 January 2015 Download Ready to sail Cast off! The barge "Scirocco" with its precious cargo is getting ready to sail.
12 January 2015 Download Transformer afloat The transformer is loaded onto a specially adapted barge for the crossing of an inland sea.
12 January 2015 Download Crossing the inland sea Berre l'Etang The crossing of the Berre d'Etang was the last leg of the transformer's sea voyage. From there, continued on wheels.
12 January 2015 Download Open, sesame! Exceptional loads, exceptional measures! Traffic was stopped when the bridge in Martigues opened to allow for the crossing of the ITER convoy.
12 January 2015 Download The first exceptional load The pictoresque town of Martigues was the setting for the first leg of the first Highly Exceptional Load transport convoy for ITER Project.
12 January 2015 Download Through the canal It was a spectacular sight as the barge with its special cargo made its way through the Canal de Caronte.
12 January 2015 Download First ITER heavyweight reaches Fos-sur-Mer The first of four high voltage transformers for ITER's steady state electrical network arrives in Fos-sur-Mer (near Marseille, France) on 19 December 2014. The four transformers, part of the US contribution to ITER, are being supplied under contract with Hyundai Heavy Industries, LLC in Korea.
19 December 2014 Download 87 metric tons The 87-tonne transformer was lifted out of its "cabin" on the "CMA CGM IVANHOE" after a one-month voyage from Korea.
19 December 2014 Download All large components will pass through Fos-sur-Mer The docks in Fos-sur-Mer, the industrial port of Marseille. It is here where the large and heavy components for ITER will arrive and embark on their final journey to the ITER site.
19 December 2014 Download Sailing on the "Ivanhoe" The "Ivanhoe", an oceangoing vessel capable of carrying more than 10,000 containers, delivered the transformer from the Korean shores to France.
19 December 2014 Download The first completed components Four wooden crates containing the first completed components for the ITER installation arrive on site on 4 September 2014. Destined for the steady state electrical system, the 12 high voltage surge arrestors will be stored temporarily in the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility.
04 September 2014 Download Reward at the end of the line After several technical incidents, the 800-tonne trailer and dummy load reach the ITER site a few hours ahead of schedule on 8 April 2014. Convoy actors share a well-deserved cup of coffee as the sun comes up.
08 April 2014 Download You'll have to be a night owl to see the convoys The ITER convoys progress only at night (at not on weekends or holidays) in order to limit the disturbance to the local communities.
03 April 2014 Download Four hours across The convoy—the barge, 800-tonne trailer and dummy load, and tugboats—will take four hours to cross the Étang de Berre.
31 March 2014 Download Through the eyes of the captain From the tug's elevated wheelhouse the captain navigates from the Gulf of Fos, through the narrow Canal de Caronte and across the inland Étang de Berre on 31 March 2014.
31 March 2014 Download Taking the necessary time Personnel from ITER logistics provider DAHER and the Compagnie Fluviale de Transport monitor every millimetre of progress as the trailer crossed onto the barge.
28 March 2014 Download 30 metres to go The operation takes about eight hours due to long pauses marked after the transfer of each double pair of axle lines (22 in all).
28 March 2014 Download Itinerary test #2 On 28 March 2014, the second ITER Itinerary test convoy gets underway. This time, the Itinerary test includes a maritime leg.
28 March 2014 Download Just arrived ... dismantling begins The convoy has accomplished its mission and dismantling operations begin shortly after arrival on site. The dismantling of the mock load (360 concrete blocks) and the 352-wheel trailer will last for two days.
20 September 2013 Download Just in time to see a rainbow! The test convoy was accessible to the public before it began its four-night campaign. At an information stand, visitors had access to mockups, pamphlets and facts about the transport of ITER components. Image: F4E 13 September 2013 Download September 2013: The ITER test convoy The four-night measurement campaign of the ITER Itinerary got off to a start on Monday 16 September. The 800-tonne trailer, mimicking the weight and dimensions of the largest ITER loads, travelled for four consecutive nights to reach the ITER site.
13 September 2013 Download 800 metric tons, 10 m high The 46-metre-long trailer and dummy load were conceived to test key points of the Itinerary. In four nights, measurements were taken at bridges, roundabouts and in 16 villages.
13 September 2013 Download Dummy load in September 2013 A dummy load made of 360 concrete blocks (800 tonnes), and mimicking the most exceptional dimensions of the ITER loads (10 metres tall, 33 long, 9 wide) was prepared by DAHER to test the ITER Itinerary. The first test convoy will travel during the nights of 16-20 September 2013. Image: DAHER 02 September 2013 Download 352 wheels This is the type of remote-controlled vehicle that will be responsible for transporting ITER's "exceptional loads" along the ITER Itinerary. Photo: DAHER 25 September 2012 Download A driver in front, a driver in back For the most exceptional convoys, the vehicle will travel at an average speed of 5 km/hour, over 3-5 nights.
02 April 2012 Download The ITER Itinerary begins here This unloading platform was created at the Port de la Pointe in Berre-l'Etang for ITER's exceptionally-sized components. Photo: AIF 06 November 2011 Download Expecting oversized convoys Along the Durance River, the road is enlarged and a footpath created. Photo: DREAL 06 February 2011 Download Over the tracks Between Berre and La Fare-les-Oliviers, ITER convoys will pass over the railway tracks.
05 May 2009 Download 104 kilometres for the ITER convoys The bridge over the Réal River in Peyrolles. Along the ITER Itinerary the convoys will bypass 16 villages, negotiate 16 roundabouts and cross 35 bridges.
05 May 2009 Download Canal de Provence A brand-new bridge crosses the Canal de Provence in Peyrolles.
24 April 2009 Download Financed by local government and the State The cost of the ITER Itinerary (EUR 110 million) was shared by the Bouches-du-Rhône department Council (66%) and the French State (34%). Photo: AIF 23 February 2009 Download Three years to complete the ITER Itinerary The road is widened and the retaining wall strengthened along a formerly narrow passage near Mirabeau. Photo: DREAL 06 February 2009 Download Keeping the public informed Public information campaigns were carried out all along the ITER Itinerary to keep the local public informed about the large-scale works underway. Photo: DREAL 06 February 2009 Download 3 years and 25 projects In all, 25 reconstruction or reinforcement projects were carried out along the 104 kilometres of the ITER Itinerary. Photo: DREAL 06 February 2009 Download The heaviest convoys, load included, will weigh around 900 tons Parallel to an existing bridge, a reinforced structure is built over the EDF canal. Photo: DREAL 06 February 2009 Download A bridge is replaced in Jouques It took two cranes to lift the five 150-tonne concrete beams of the old bridge in Jouques, which was replaced during work along the ITER Itinerary. © Sophie SPITERI-La Provence 06 February 2009 Download Remote-controlled transport This is the type of remote-controlled vehicle that will be responsible for transporting ITER's "exceptional" components along the ITER Itinerary, beginning 2013. Photo: AIF 06 February 2009 Download Remote-controlled transporter A simulation of an exceptional convoy travelling along the ITER Itinerary by remote-controlled transporter. Image credit: AIF Download Levelling roundabouts In Berre, a roundabout is levelled in order to allow for the passage of ITER convoys.
02 February 2009 Download By boat, by barge, by transporter La Pointe harbour, where ITER components will be unloaded after crossing the Étang de Berre by barge.
02 February 2009 Download Exceptional convoys A model illustrating the transport of an "exceptionally sized" ITER component. Photo: AIF Download The narrow passage near Mirabeau Along this narrow 400-metre stretch near Mirabeau, work was carried out to widen the road and replace the old retaining wall dating from 1934 (pictured) with a new one. Photo: DREAL 27 April 2008 Download The 50th ITER convoy, transporting the two last segments of the cryostat top lid, is seen here as it crosses the A51 thruway in Provence on the last leg of its journey to the ITER construction site.
Download Click for full screen 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2009 2008 ' + currentmenu.text() + ' Construction Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR Transport of the components Transport of the components ITER's largest components will be transported 104 kilometres along a dedicated itinerary from the Mediterranean Sea to the site in Saint Paul-lez-Durance. Precise mapping techniques allow ITER logistics provider DAHER to plan for each unique load (pictured: poloidal field coil #6).
The ITER Itinerary The ITER Itinerary. © CEA This is the type of trailer will be responsible for transporting ITER's ''exceptional loads'' along the ITER Itinerary.
Deliveries | Busy times on roads and oceans Deliveries | 2nd vacuum vessel sector from Korea Component deliveries | 50th mammoth convoy in 6 years Local partners | A celebration for ITER's "vital artery" Photo reportage | Travelling with a coil Image of the week | The heaviest load on the longest day Deliveries | Two coils on their way Component transport | Way now open for Japan's "super HEL" ITER Itinerary | Make way for the elephants! Cargo, barge, monster trailer ... and an eyedropper A warm welcome for the first heavy load First plant components delivered to ITER Second test convoy, with maritime leg this time Test convoy takes to the sea A successful journey ... to be replicated 200 times The way is now open A huge caterpillar of men and machinery By sea, air and road Components will travel "in a bubble" FOR THE PUBLIC Jobs About ITER FAQs Photos Visits Education Donate/Sponsor FOR THE PRESS All News Welcome Facts and Figures ITER Milestones Press Releases Fusion Glossary FOR SCIENTISTS ITPA Fusion Links Conferences How to Publish ITER Technical Reports ITER International School FOR INDUSTRY Procurement Intellectual Property Foreign Workers in France Business Events INTRANET Intranet Sitemap Terms of use Privacy Policy © 2023, ITER Organization ITER Assembly Live Event - 28 JULY The event will be live-streamed, in three parts (all times listed are French local times): 10:00 a.m. — Tour of the ITER worksite and large components on site 11:00 a.m. — Ceremony, including statements by world leaders 12:30 a.m. (or following the ceremony) — Press conference
