old id = 933
What is Natural Language Processing? Intro to NLP in Machine Learning - Gyansetu
2023
https://www.gyansetu.in/what-is-natural-language-processing

Enrol For Data Analytics Course Learn More iClass Gyansetu Blogs courses corporate training Categories Open menu Data Science Machine Learning with Python Training Course in Gurgaon Deep Learning and Artificial Intelligence Training Course in Gurgaon Machine Learning with R Programming Data Analytics Course in Gurgaon, Delhi – Job Oriented Data Science Training in Gurgaon – Job Oriented Big Data Big Data Hadoop Training in Gurgaon, Delhi – Gyansetu Apache Spark & Scala certification Training Gurgaon,Delhi – Gyansetu Business/ Data Analytics Business Analytics Certification Program Python Training in Gurgaon Advanced Excel Training course Gurgaon,Delhi Live Project Power BI Training Course in Gurgaon SQL PLSQL Training Certification in Gurgaon,Delhi – Gyansetu Tableau Training in Gurgaon with Live Projects VBA Programming Training in Gurgaon SAS Training in Gurgaon | SAS Analytics Training Institute in Gurgaon Software Testing Selenium Training in Gurgaon | Automation Software Testing Training Manual Testing Training in Gurgaon,Delhi | ISTQB Certification in Gurgaon Cucumber Training Course in Gurgaon | Behavior Driven Development (BDD) Training Best Microservice Testing Training Course Gurgaon Full Stack Development Full Stack Development Training in Gurgaon, Delhi – GyanSetu NodeJS Training in Gurgaon Angular Training in Gurgaon React JS Training in Gurgaon Web Designing Course in Gurgaon | Web designing Training Institute Web Development/ Languages Python Dot Net Java Android Training in Gurgaon | Mobile App Development Training C/C++ Programming Training in Gurgaon Cloud | Devops DevOps Training in Gurgaon Docker Kubernetes Training in Gurgaon AWS Training in Gurgaon | AWS Solution Architect Certification Training salesforce CRM Salesforce Training in Gurgaon | Salesforce Admin Certification Training Salesforce Developer with Visualforce Training in Gurgaon Salesforce Lightning Training Course in Gurgaon Data Science big data Business/ Data Analytics software testing full stack development Web Development/ Languages Cloud | Devops salesforce crm Data Science Open menu Machine Learning with Python Training Course in Gurgaon Deep Learning and Artificial Intelligence Training Course in Gurgaon Machine Learning with R Programming Data Analytics Course in Gurgaon, Delhi – Job Oriented Data Science Training in Gurgaon – Job Oriented Big Data Open menu Big Data Hadoop Training in Gurgaon, Delhi – Gyansetu Apache Spark & Scala certification Training Gurgaon,Delhi – Gyansetu Business/ Data Analytics Open menu Business Analytics Certification Program Python Training in Gurgaon Advanced Excel Training course Gurgaon,Delhi Live Project Power BI Training Course in Gurgaon SQL PLSQL Training Certification in Gurgaon,Delhi – Gyansetu Tableau Training in Gurgaon with Live Projects VBA Programming Training in Gurgaon SAS Training in Gurgaon | SAS Analytics Training Institute in Gurgaon Software Testing Open menu Selenium Training in Gurgaon | Automation Software Testing Training Manual Testing Training in Gurgaon,Delhi | ISTQB Certification in Gurgaon Cucumber Training Course in Gurgaon | Behavior Driven Development (BDD) Training Best Microservice Testing Training Course Gurgaon Full Stack Development Open menu Full Stack Development Training in Gurgaon, Delhi – GyanSetu NodeJS Training in Gurgaon Angular Training in Gurgaon React JS Training in Gurgaon Web Designing Course in Gurgaon | Web designing Training Institute Web Development/ Languages Open menu Python Dot Net Java Android Training in Gurgaon | Mobile App Development Training C/C++ Programming Training in Gurgaon Cloud | Devops Open menu DevOps Training in Gurgaon Docker Kubernetes Training in Gurgaon AWS Training in Gurgaon | AWS Solution Architect Certification Training salesforce CRM Open menu Salesforce Training in Gurgaon | Salesforce Admin Certification Training Salesforce Developer with Visualforce Training in Gurgaon Salesforce Lightning Training Course in Gurgaon iClass Gyansetu Δ document.getElementById( "ak_js_1" ).setAttribute( "value", ( new Date() ).getTime() ); What is Natural Language Processing? Intro to NLP in Machine Learning NLP is a part of machine learning that deals with understanding, analyzing, and generating the languages that humans use naturally or communicate in order to interface with computers instead of machine language.
Applications of NLP Machine Translation – Google translate, etc.
Language generation Sentiment Analysis Chatbots Web search Personal Assistants like Siri, Cortana, and Alexa, etc.
Auto-complete: In search engines (e.g. Google, Bing).
Spell-checking – Grammarly is a very good example of it.
Many more….
NLP Pipeline There are 3 stages of an NLP pipeline: 1.
Text Processing :- Take raw text as input, clean it, normalize it, tokenize it, remove stop words, etc. and convert it into a form that is best for feature extraction.
2.
Feature Extraction :- Extract features that are appropriate for an NLP task you are trying to accomplish and the model you are trying to use.
3.
Modeling :- Design a machine learning model, fit its parameters to the training data, and then use it to make predictions on unseen data.
This process/pipeline isn’t always linear and may require additional steps.
Read also:- Regression vs classification in Machine Learning Why do we need to process text? To make our raw input text free from any constructs that are not required for the task.
Extracting plain text – Extract plain text from pdf, documents, web, speech, scans, etc.
Reducing complexity – Things like capitalization, punctuation, common words/stop words, etc. do not add much meaning to the text. Sometimes it’s best to remove that to reduce the complexity of the model you want to apply later.
Text Processing Data Cleaning Here we remove special characters, HTML tags, etc. from the raw text as they do not contain any info for the model to learn and are irrelevant or noisy data.
Data Normalization Data normalization involves steps such as case normalization, punctuation removal, etc. so that the text is in a single format for the machine to learn.
Read More:- Is Python Enough for Machine Learning Case Normalization Car, car, CAR -> they all mean the same thing.
So, convert all capitalization to lower to bring to a common case.
Punctuation Removal Replace punctuation with space.
Tokenization Tokenization is the process of breaking up text documents into individual words called tokens.
So, far we have been using python inbuilt functions for this task.
Tokenization using NLTK Stop Word Removal Stop word removal means the removal of non-important words like ‘a’, ‘is’, ‘the’, ‘and’, ‘an’, ‘are’, “me”, “i” , etc.
There is an in-built stopword list in NLTK which we can use to remove stop words from text documents. However this is not the standard stopwords list for every problem, we can also define our own set of stop words based on the domain.
Parts of Speech (POS) Tagging Given a sentence, determine POS tags for each word ( e.g., NOUN, VERB, ADV, ADJ).
You can use an inbuilt part of speech tagger provided in NLTK. There are other more advanced forms of POS tagging that can learn sentence structures and tags from given data, including Hidden Markov Models (HMMs) and Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs).
Named Entity Recognition In information extraction, a named entity is a real-world object, such as persons, locations, organizations, products, etc., that can be denoted with a proper name.
Stemming Stemming is a process of reducing a word to its root form.
branching branched, branches can all be reduced to branch.
Caching, caches, cached can all be reduced to the cache.
1. from nltk.stem.porter import PorterStemmer Lemmatization Lemmatization is another technique for reducing words to it’s normalized form. But in this case, the transformation actually uses a dictionary to map words to their actual form.
change, changing, changes, changed, changer is transformed to change in Stemmed from (stemming does not confirm the root word is also a full actual word), but this is transformed to change in Lemmatized form (lemmatization will have the root word also as an actual meaningful word).
Learn Machine Learning Feature Extraction Feature Extraction is a way of extracting feature vectors from the text after the text processing step so that it can be used in the machine learning model as input. This extracted feature from the text can be a wordnet of a graph of nodes, a vector representing words (doc2vec, word2vec, sent2vec, glove, etc.) Word Embedding is one such technique where we can represent the text using vectors. The more popular forms of word embeddings are: 1. BoW, which stands for Bag of Words 2. TF-IDF, which stands for Term Frequency-Inverse Document Frequency Bag-of-Words Model Bag of words model, or BoW for short, is a way of extracting features from the text for use in modeling, such as machine learning algorithms. It treats each document as a collection/bag of words.
A bag-of-words is a representation of text that describes the occurrence of words within a document. It involves two things: A vocabulary of known words in the corpus/set of documents.
A measure of the presence of known words.
The intuition is that documents are similar if they have similar content. Further, from the content alone we can learn something about the meaning of the document.
Example:- If you want to compare essays submitted by students for plagiarism, there each essay will be considered as a document.
If you want to analyze the sentiments submitted in the tweets, then there each tweet will be considered as a document.
Corpus is a set of documents.
TF-IDF Let’s first put a formal definition around TF-IDF. Here’s how Wikipedia puts it: “Term frequency-inverse document frequency is a numerical statistic that is intended to reflect how important a word is to a document in a collection or corpus.” Term Frequency Let’s first understand Term Frequent (TF). It is a measure of how frequently a term, t, appears in a document, d Here, in the numerator, n is the number of times the term “t” appears in the document “d”. Thus, each document and term would have its own TF value.
Inverse Document Frequency (IDF) IDF is a measure of how important a term is. We need the IDF because computing just the TF alone is not sufficient to understand the importance of words.
Modeling The final stage of the NLP pipeline is modeling , which includes designing a statistical or machine learning model, fitting its parameters to training data, using an optimization procedure, and then using it to make predictions about unseen data.
The nice thing about working with numerical features is that it allows you to choose from all machine learning models or even a combination of them.
Some of the machine learning algorithms used here are:- 1. Linear Regression 2. Logistic Regression 3. Decision Trees 4. Random Forest Classifier 5. Naive Bayes Classifier 6. Support Vector Machines (SVM) 7. Neural Networks (RNN, LSTM, Bi-LSTM) 8. Ensemble Methods – Adaboost, XGBoost, Gradient Boost 9. Gradient Boosting Machine 10. Nearest Neighbors (K-Nearest Neighbors, Approximate Nearest Neighbors, etc.) 11. Clustering (K-means, Hierarchical, DBSCAN, Gaussian Mixture Models, etc.) 12. Many more….
Once you have a working model, you can deploy it as a web app, mobile app, or integrate it with other products and services. The possibilities are endless! Recent Blogs Getting Started with Cucumber Testing: A Practical Tutorial October 29, 2023 The Data Revolution: Recognizing the Importance of Data Science October 28, 2023 How to Identify a Continuous Field in Tableau? October 27, 2023 Power BI Dashboard Examples October 17, 2023 The Promising Future: Data Science Scope in India October 17, 2023 Decision Trees Advantages and Disadvantages October 17, 2023 Post navigation Previous Post How to Learn Data Science From Scratch (Complete Guide) Next Post Job Profiles & Responsibilities of Data Scientist at Microsoft, Google, Amazon iClass Gyansetu is one of the fastest growing professionally managed company in Technology Learning & Consulting. The core team comprises of highly qualified and skilled professionals with global exposure in diverse areas. We offer high quality, cost-effective professional training with delivery par excellence in cutting edge technologies.
FOLLOW US Icon-facebook Icon-twitter Icon-linkedin Icon-pinterest Icon-instagram-1 Icon-youtube Useful links Enquiry Form About Blogs Courses Corporate Training Apply for Trainer Contact Us Faq Instructor Interview Questions Terms and Conditions Contact with Us +91 9999 201 478 info@gyansetu.in Newsletter Δ document.getElementById( "ak_js_2" ).setAttribute( "value", ( new Date() ).getTime() ); © 2022 Gyansetu
