old id = 80
You and AI | Royal Society
2023
https://royalsociety.org/topics-policy/projects/machine-learning/you-and-ai

Venue hire Contact us Fellow Search Show navigation Fellows Events Grants, Schemes & Awards Topics and Policy Journals Collections About us What's new Search the Fellows Directory Search for past Fellows About elections Biographical Memoirs Public events Scientific meetings Summer Science You and the planet Grants Awards Training, mentoring and partnership Book prizes Flexi-Grant® Global Talent visa All topics All projects All reports & publications Brexit & UK science Browse journals Authors Reviewers Librarians Open access Journal policies Metrics About Publishing Fellows' access Visitor information Digital resources Print shop Research Search the catalogues Mission History Programmes International work Funding & finances Governance Committees Jobs UKYA Blog News 2050challenge COVID-19 COP and climate change More Search Show navigation You currently have JavaScript disabled in your web browser, please enable JavaScript to view our website as intended.
Here are the instructions of how to enable JavaScript in your browser.
You and AI Throughout 2018, The Royal Society supported by DeepMind brought you the world's leading thinkers in AI, in order to help build a greater understanding of what machine learning and AI are, how the technology works, and the ways it may affect our lives.
The launch of You and AI followed the Royal Society’s in-depth assessment of public views of machine learning which found that just one in ten members of the UK public recognised the term "machine learning", even though the technology – a form of artificial intelligence (AI) – is already part of our everyday lives.
This written summary (PDF) gives a sense of the issues covered in the series, and you can watch the videos at the links below.
Supported by DeepMind.
Machine Learning Q&A Mathematician Professor Marcus Du Sautoy answers your social media questions on machine learning.
You and AI in Manchester Professor Jim Al-Khalili OBE FRS poses your questions about artificial intelligence to a panel of experts.
The future of work Professor Joseph E. Stiglitz explores how AI might affect work and working life, and how its benefits might be shared (or not) across society.
The history of AI In the first of our You and AI series, DeepMind co-founder and CEO Demis Hassabis leads us through the history and aspirations for AI technologies.
Machine learning and bias Professor Kate Crawford discusses the biases built into machine learning, and what that means for the social implications of AI.
Making machines play fair Professor Cynthia Dwork explores the emerging theory of algorithmic fairness and the challenges in ensuring that machines make objective decisions.
The applications of AI Professor Marcus du Sautoy presents four speakers from the worlds of science and tech, to discuss how AI is revolutionising their respective fields.
What is machine learning? An interactive infographic that lets you test yourself against machine learning and share your results.
Share: Copyright © 2023 The Royal Society. All rights reserved Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Fellows Search the Fellows Directory Search for past Fellows About elections Biographical Memoirs Events Public events Scientific meetings Summer Science You and the planet Grants, Schemes & Awards Grants Awards Training, mentoring and partnership Book prizes Flexi-Grant® Global Talent visa Topics and Policy All topics All projects All reports & publications Brexit & UK science Journals Browse journals Authors Reviewers Librarians Open access Journal policies Metrics About Publishing Fellows' access Collections Visitor information Digital resources Print shop Research Search the catalogues About us Mission History Programmes International work Funding & finances Governance Committees Jobs UKYA What's new Blog News 2050challenge COVID-19 COP and climate change
