old id = 1182
Department Of Computer Science | Makerere University
2023
https://cs.mak.ac.ug

Makerere University Department of Computer Science Home About Department Overview Contact Department Faculty Administrative Staff Research Research Groups & Centers Flagship Research Projects Admissions General Information Deadlines Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduates Visting CS Department Curriculum Current Curriculum(V2021) Old Curriculum(V2017) News &Events Funding & Scholarships New Scholarships DeepMind Scholarships UW<>Mak Fellowships Scholars Notice Board Graduation List Admission List Timetables Results Feedback FAQs Head of Department Message On behalf of the Computer Science staff and students I would like to welcome you to the Department of Computer Science at Makerere University.
We are in the exciting times to study Computer Science. Computers are part in just about every aspect of modern life including financial services, transportation, healthcare, education, and many others.Our department is the best place to be at.
We welcome you to be part of the department as a student, researcher or staff as we explore new opportunities and make new discoveries in Computer science.
Pathways For: Prospective Undergraduates Current Undergraduates Prospective Master Students Current Master Students Prospective PhD Students Current PhD Students Prospective PGD Students Current PGD Students Departmental Overview Department offers quality Computer Science education & research in Africa.
700+ Students 20+ Staff & Non-Teaching Staff 4 Research Groups Computer Science Today The latest news from Makerere University Computer Science Department Faculty member of the computer science department wins grant By: Administrator | August 21, 2023 Dr. Daudi Jjingo has won the Gates Foundation Grand Challenges Explorations Grant.
Head of Makerere Artificial Intelligence lab Wins Grant By: Administrator | August 21, 2023 Dr. Joyce Nakatumba-Nabende has won the Gates Foundation Grand Challenges Explorations Grant.
Advertisement – Three CS Graduate Fellows Needed By: Administrator | February 15, 2023 The Department of Computer Science of Makerere University is seeking applications from qualifying candidates to fill the following Graduate Fellow Vacancies.
Computer Science Research Some of the research projects being carried out by the research groups and centers.
Crane Cloud The project aims to design and develop a cloud native platform that is specially designed for resilience to unique connectivity and infrastructure challenges in the African context.
Air Quality Monitoring This project is on a mission to contribute to the improvement of urban ambient air quality by providing scientific evidence and low-cost technologies to quantify and inform policy to reduce, contain and better manage air pollution and its associated health risks.
Mobile Monitoring of Crop Diseases This research project aims at enabling all year round, real time disease surveillance using mobile phones, automating pests and symptom measurements, enabling rapid diagnosis of crop disease in fields based on crop images.
Academics & Admissions Undergraduate Program The BSc in Computer Science program is a full time program that is conducted both in the day and in the evening.
To be admitted to the program, a candidate must satisfy the general admission requirements for Makerere University.
Masters Program The MSc in Computer Science has two areas of specialization: Software and Systems Security Artificial Intelligence and Data Science The MSc in Computer Science program is made up of two plans: Plan A Plan B PhD Program The PhD in Computer Science program focuses on four research areas: Theoretical Computer Science Computer Security Computer Vision & Image Processing Modeling & Optimization of Operational Systems Contact Us [javascript protected email address] Academics & Research People OTHER USEFUL LINKS © 2023 - Makerere University Department of Computer Science
