old id = 1185
Department Of Computer Science | Makerere University
2023
https://cs.mak.ac.ug/faqs

Makerere University Department of Computer Science Home About Department Overview Contact Department Faculty Administrative Staff Research Research Groups & Centers Flagship Research Projects Admissions General Information Deadlines Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduates Visting CS Department Curriculum Current Curriculum(V2021) Old Curriculum(V2017) News &Events Funding & Scholarships New Scholarships DeepMind Scholarships UW<>Mak Fellowships Scholars Notice Board Graduation List Admission List Timetables Results Feedback FAQs Faqs Faqs Faqs Undergraduate Masters PhD What are the areas of specialisation for MSc Computer Science? The MSc Computer Science has two areas of specialisation (1) Artificial Intelligence and Data Science (2) Software Systems Security When do students specialise? All students take the same courses in Year 1 Semester 1. Specialisation starts in Year 1 Semester 2 Is the programme offered in the day, evening or weekend? The MSc Computer Science is an evening programme. Classes normally start at 5:00PM and end at 9:00PM. Some classes are scheduled on the weekend Can I follow the programme online? Whereas the courses have content on University learning management system (Muele), the programme is not offered purely online at the moment and thus requires physical presence of the student.
I applied for a different programme and would like to change to MSc Computer Science? Change of programme is usually done within the first few weeks of the start of the Semester. The change of programme must be done inline with the University regulations and guidelines What are the Admission requirements for MSc Computer Science Please see the curriculum section of the website I scored pass degree at Undergraduate, can I apply for MSc Computer Science No. The minimum requirement is a Second Class Lower division. You may however apply for PGD Computer Science Contact Us [javascript protected email address] Academics & Research People OTHER USEFUL LINKS © 2023 - Makerere University Department of Computer Science
