old id = 117
DeepMind Fellowships | Computer Science
2023
https://cse.ucsd.edu/graduate/deepmind-fellowships

CSE Main Menu About People Our Building CSE Publications CSE News CSE Events Contact Us Administration Research Research Areas Awards & Accomplishments Associated Centers Technical Reports CSE Fellows Program Graduate Student Awards Degree Programs Graduating PhDs Admissions Courses Advising Financial Opportunities DeepMind Fellowships Undergraduate Undergraduate Home Page Prospective Students Courses and Enrollment Information Degree Programs Academic Advising Faculty Mentorship Tutors CSE Honors Program Student Success and Opportunities Internship and Career Resources Student Awards Diversity Events Committee Faculty Mentorship Leadership Program Seminar Series Book Club Celebration of Diversity Student Organizations Department Activities Outreach Videos & Resources Volunteer Community Student Organization CSE Alumni Board CSE Alumni CSE Founded Companies Industry Giving Graduates Graduate Admissions Graduate Programs Courses and Enrollment Information Advising Financial Opportunities Fellowships and Scholarships Teaching Assistantships Graduate Student Life Graduating PhDs DeepMind Fellowships DeepMind Fellows DeepMind Fellowships Computer Science and Engineering is proud to offer two DeepMind Fellowships for Fall 2023! (Two Masters fellowships and one PhD fellowship to be awarded for AY23-24) ​ These fellowships were made possible by a recent generous gift from DeepMind , a London-based leader in artificial intelligence (AI) research and how it’s applied in the real world. UC San Diego is currently one of just three universities in the United States, and one of five in North America, selected to participate in this program.
Masters Fellowship The Master's Fellowships are designed to support machine learning (ML) masters students. Students from cultural, racial, linguistic, geographic and socioeconomic backgrounds and genders who are underrepresented in ML graduate education are encouraged to apply.
DeepMind Fellows receive two-year fellowships that cover tuition along with a stipend, a travel grant, funding to use towards housing, and access to a DeepMind mentor.
See current DeepMind Fellows here.
Who’s eligible: Admitted MS students specializing in Machine Learning who have demonstrated meaningful contributions to diversity and inclusion will be considered for DeepMind Fellowships.
How to apply: To be considered for a DeepMind Fellowship, applicants must (1) submit an MS application by the application deadline, (2) Complete the “ Additional Educational Experiences ” section of the application (highlighting how the applicant overcame barriers, and/or demonstrating a commitment to diversity) , and (3) Select AI/Machine Learning as an Interest Area.
Apply Here The Fall 2023 MS Application Deadline is December 21, 2022. Fellowship awardees will be selected and contacted by March or early April.
DeepMind Fellowship Details (Masters): The award provides full tuition and fees (including nonresident supplemental tuition, if applicable) and funding to use towards housing for five quarters.
Additional funding for living expenses, required books, equipment, and transportation costs recommended by the university A one-time travel grant of $2,250 to be used for relevant conference attendance Questions: Contact csegradinfo-ms@eng.ucsd.edu PhD Fellowship The Fall 2023 PhD Application Deadline is April 30, 2023. The fellowship awardee will be selected and contacted in Spring 2023.
This one-year fellowship is designed to support a machine learning (ML) PhD student. Students from cultural, racial, linguistic, geographic and socioeconomic backgrounds and genders who are underrepresented in ML graduate education are encouraged to apply.
The DeepMind PhD Fellow will receive a one-year fellowships that covers partial tuition along with a travel grant and funding to use towards housing.
Who’s eligible: Admitted PhD students specializing in Machine Learning who have demonstrated meaningful contributions to diversity and inclusion will be considered.
How to apply: Please have your advisor submit your application packet here: https://forms.gle/wp6d99UJUnNnTtFh8 no later than April 30, 2023.
 The application packet should include the following: A copy of your CV A 2-page statement of research that also addresses any ways your candidacy fulfills the EDI preference for this fellowship Two professional letters of recommendation DeepMind Fellowship Details (PhD): The one-year fellowship provides funding towards tuition, fees and equipment, and funding to use towards housing.
Additional funding for living expenses, required books, equipment, and transportation costs recommended by the university A one-time travel grant of $2,250 to be used for relevant conference attendance Questions: Contact swanson@eng.ucsd.edu or rwellisch@ucsd.edu Information Prospective Students Career Connections Health & Safety Emergency Action Plan Quicklinks Faculty Recruitment CSE Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Publications Stay Connected Social Media Copyright © Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.
Login
