old id = 274
Executive Program | Singularity
2023
https://su.org/executive-program

Executive Program Custom Programs Resources Insights Tech News Podcast Blog About Us Experts Staff Mission contact us the singularity executive program leadership development designed to help you think like a futurist discover the impact of NFTs longevity the blockchain algorithmic bias the metaverse DAOs empathy Web 3.0 entrepreneurship biohacking robotics exponential tech CRISPR artificial intelligence quantum computing human potential the singularity extended reality XR / VR / AR exponential tech NFTs longevity the blockchain algorithmic bias the metaverse DAOs empathy Web 3.0 entrepreneurship biohacking robotics exponential tech CRISPR artificial intelligence quantum computing human potential the singularity extended reality XR / VR / AR exponential tech + copyright law the future of cities diversity the workplace real estate leadership business finance change finance the environment your company society you agriculture society government manufacturing supply chains your company copyright law the future of cities diversity the workplace real estate leadership business finance change finance the environment your company society you agriculture society government manufacturing supply chains your company download the brochure and sample agenda I agree to Singularity's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
 * step into the future Grasp the power of exponential technologies and their implications on your business, community and the planet shift your mindset Learn to see opportunities in moments of uncertainty and start thinking about the future like a futurist understand your impact Adopt an ethical perspective and learn how leaders can deploy technology to create a better, balanced tomorrow for all find your people Join a highly curated cohort of leaders who think about the future through a diverse global lens create your roadmap Go from ‘thinking’ to ‘doing' with Singularity’s unique innovation frameworks and strategies program dates click to apply where leaders learn to thrive during uncertain times continuously evolving curriculum to not only keep up with with the pace of change but to see beyond it unique perspectives on the future through the singularity lens of exponential technologies and their convergence hands-on programming to shift your mindset through immersive workshops, projects and unconferences an intimate network of like-minded leaders designed to foster connections that last long after the program ends where leaders learn to thrive during uncertain times continuously evolving curriculum to not only keep up with with the pace of change but to see beyond it unique perspectives on the future through the singularity lens of exponential technologies and their convergence hands-on programming to shift your mindset through immersive workshops, projects and unconferences an intimate network of like-minded leaders designed to foster connections that last long after the program ends innovation strategy impact investing deep tech algorithmic bias future of work metaverse longevity & bio-tech robotics & ai blockchain for good innovation strategy augmented humans deep tech algorithmic bias DAOs metaverse longevity & bio-tech robotics & ai blockchain for good innovation strategy impact investing deep tech algorithmic bias DAOs metaverse longevity & bio-tech robotics & ai blockchain for good innovation strategy impact investing deep tech algorithmic bias DAOs metaverse longevity & bio-tech robotics & ai blockchain for good innovation strategy quantum computing 3-D printing algorithmic bias DAOs metaverse future of finance robotics & ai bio-hacking innovation strategy impact investing deep tech future of cities DAOs metaverse longevity & bio-tech robotics & ai blockchain for good innovation strategy impact investing deep tech algorithmic bias DAOs metaverse longevity & bio-tech robotics & ai blockchain for good innovation strategy impact investing deep tech algorithmic bias DAOs metaverse longevity & bio-tech robotics & ai blockchain for good the future is better with a guide Since 2007, Singularity has worked with leading experts from diverse backgrounds including academia, entrepreneurship, government organizations, and venture capitalism. This ensures exposure to a wide range of perspectives from the most forward thinking experts.
divya chander ray kurzweil dr. melanie rieback alix rübsaam anne connelly shuo chen ja-nae duane kian gohar charlene li hod lipson tom chi peter diamandis sam snabes aaron frank darlene damm anita schjøll brede john hagel mark jackson corey ponder bryce goodman 10,000 future-focused leaders and counting We all come from different industries, from different countries, from different backgrounds. But there is a unifying element and that is our own self selection to spend our time improving the way we think in order to solve world challenges and using technology for good. And that's the unifying element that brings this diverse group of people together.
The best way to describe what happened to me after a week of hearing some of the brightest people in tech talk about the future is that they dramatically changed my perspective. Come to find out, I had a very narrow lens through which I viewed the world; they replaced it with a wide angle lens that goes beyond our planet and looks far into the future.
The Executive Program was a truly mind-expanding experience which should help prepare me for the extraordinary changes to come.
future ethical technology advisor future chief experience officer future minister of the metaverse are you ready to lead tomorrow's world? We seek diversity of industry, background and geography to curate the richest experience for attendees.
With a limited number of seats per cohort, we seek out applicants that fit the following profile: mid-to-senior level leader in your organization responsible for driving innovation and impact believe in the power of exponential technology desire to up-level or change your career A look into your executive program experience program details price $14,900.00 USD program theme The New, Emerging Leader location Ameswell Hotel, Mountain View, CA average cohort size 80 upcoming cohort application deadline October 20, 2023 location Ameswell Hotel, Mountain View, CA average cohort size 80 upcoming cohort application deadline February 15, 2024 location Ameswell Hotel, Mountain View, CA average cohort size 80 upcoming cohort application deadline March 28, 2024 location Ameswell Hotel, Mountain View, CA average cohort size 80 upcoming cohort application deadline September 26, 2024 interested in attending a future cohort? Submit your application now to be first in line.
apply for your cohort We review applications as they come in. The earlier you apply, the better.
confirm your acceptance If accepted, you will have two weeks to confirm participation and pay your tuition.
cohort onboarding Two weeks prior to the Program, we’ll share some valuable insights for you to prepare and get the most out of your time at the Executive Program. This includes pre-reading materials from our speakers and an overview of the agenda. We’ll also be available to answer any and all questions you might have ahead of the program.
day one (arrival day) This is arrival day for participants. Right from the start you’ll see what it means to live in an exponential world. You’ll be introduced to the foundational concepts at Singularity: exponential technology and positive impact.
day two When people learn about exponential technology, they typically feel excited, but also overwhelmed and afraid. Day two is designed to help you embrace the uncertainty and discover how it’s not as unimaginable as it first appears.
day three After learning how the world will continue to change, the next step is to think about the implications of those changes.
day four Once you’ve learned about the changes and considered the implications, it’s time to explore your role as a business leader more deeply. On day four, you’ll get serious about how you as an individual and a business leader will become a changemaker and bring about global positive transformation.
day five At the end of the week, it’s time to act. Day five will embolden you with the tools you need to walk away with concrete next steps. The abstract will be made real, and you’ll dive deep into the practical and tangible realities of the world you envision.
exploration (for up to 12 months) Our year-long virtual programming will help you stay up to date and continue to expand on the ideas and frameworks presented during your program.
Meet Your Experts hear what the alumni have to say Have more questions? We applaud curious minds at Singularity and know you may have more questions. Check out our FAQ resource or reach out and talk to a human (robots available upon request.) ask us a question about the executive program follow      ‍ leadership programs Executive Program Abundance360 Scholarships enterprise solutions Custom Programs Strategic Narrative resources Podcasts Insights Blog News about Our Mission Impact Team Press Room contact Contact Us Help Desk Privacy Policy Terms of Use Community Guidelines FAQ
