old id = 280
WIRED Brand Lab | A Leader in AI: Boston Consulting Group | WIRED
2023
https://www.wired.com/sponsored/story/bcg-learnmore

Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons By WIRED Brand Lab AI Hub A Leader in AI: Boston Consulting Group Save this story Save Save this story Save For nearly 60 years, Boston Consulting Group (BCG) has been recognized as one of the world’s most prestigious strategy and technology consulting firms—and with good reason. Driven by its core purpose—unlocking the potential of those who advance the world—and fueled by some of the brightest minds in the industry, BCG has helped countless businesses realize their digital ambitions by harnessing the combined power of new technologies like artificial intelligence and human capabilities to drive growth, innovation, transformation and change. But sometimes, even the transformation consultants need to transform a little themselves.
That’s why BCG is partnering with the team at WIRED, one of the nation’s foremost technology publications, to help tell the story of how artificial intelligence is not only affecting the world right now, but how it promises to shape our lives for years to come.
“The work that we do—helping businesses strike the right partnership between human and tech to unlock their full potential—affects how people, processes, culture, and strategy come together for a company but also society,” said Vladimir Lukic, Managing Director and Partner at BCG. “There’s a broader context to what we do and that’s the story we want to tell.” Together, WIRED and BCG are proud to present a new content database —devoted entirely to artificial intelligence—that provides that context. Built for business leaders, AI enthusiasts, and the curious minded, this database is designed to be a key resource in how both businesses and the public alike understand the real-world implications of AI—and how to plan for its future.
The new, searchable database blends the best of WIRED’s AI editorial content with BCG’s wide variety of use cases, sourced from years of experience in building and implementing practical AI solutions for organizations of all shapes and sizes. Behind a team of more than 1,300 data scientists and AI experts, BCG has built a deep history of these impactful case studies because that caliber of work has been its primary focus. BCG isn’t just an AI thought leader—it’s an AI impact leader.
The WIRED team has long focused on the intersection of technology and humanity—how our species crafts new and innovative technologies, and in turn how those technologies shape the lives we live. BCG shares this ambition, focusing on the importance of “bionic” companies: organizations that seek to combine the strengths of people and technology to create and scale extraordinary opportunities. The story of this partnership is fundamentally a human one—because humans are a fundamental part of AI’s future.
Now is the right time to explore this story with you. AI’s capabilities are scaling exponentially, but more importantly, the COVID-19 pandemic has forced a new kind of global digital transformation for businesses and individuals alike. All of us are interfacing with AI solutions more than ever before—and that means we must recognize their impact accordingly.
BCG understands commercial AI solutions better than anyone. WIRED understands the technology enthusiast better than anyone. Together, we’re ready to share not just our stories, but your stories—humankind’s stories. BCG has been an integral part of AI’s past and present.
Now we’ll all be a central part of its future.
Simon Hill Jennifer M. Wood Matt Kamen Matt Kamen Angela Watercutter Scott Gilbertson Jordana Cepelewicz Simon Hill Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón
