old id = 283
The 7 Best Mirrorless Cameras (2023): Full-Frame, APS-C, and More | WIRED
2023
https://www.wired.com/gallery/best-mirrorless-cameras

Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Best Pumpkin Carving Kits How to Use Dall-E 3 in ChatGPT Best Steam Deck Accessories Beginner Birding Gear How to Use Your Phone Addiction for Good Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Scott Gilbertson Gear The Best Mirrorless Cameras Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Full-Frame or APS-C? Read more Best for Most People $2,498 at Amazon Best on a Budget $1,696 at Amazon Megapixel Madness $3,898 at Amazon You know what's the least important part of taking a great photo? Gear. The vision you have and the work you put into realizing it are far more critical.
That's not to say gear doesn't matter, just that it's best used in service of something larger. That's why this guide doesn't get too deep into the weeds of megapixel counts, sensor sizes, and pixel peeping. All these cameras are capable of producing amazing images. Which one is right for you depends more on your needs than on the size of the sensor.
Still, choosing the right one can be confusing. I've spent years testing dozens of cameras in all kinds of shooting scenarios to come up with what I think are the best choices for different types of photographers.
Be sure to check out our many other buying guides, like the Best Compact Cameras , Best Camera Bags , and Best Action Cameras.
Updated March 2023: We added the Fujifilm X-T5, the new Sony A7RV, some notes on the Panasonic S5II and the Nikon Z5, and swapped the sold-out Fujifilm X-E4 for the X100V.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get a 1-year subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Photograph: Jose A. Bernat Bacete/Getty Images Full-Frame or APS-C? Sensor Talk The internet has an obsession with sensors, megapixels, and zooming in on images to find their flaws. Here's the thing: If sharpness is what you want, shoot the largest format you can. But know that great photographs don't need to be razor-sharp from edge to edge. Few of them are.
That said, most of the cameras here have “full-frame sensors” (except the Fujifilm models, which use the APS-C sensors). There is nothing magical about this size; it just happens to be the same size as 35-mm film. This means that any lens made for a film camera can (probably) be adapted to work with the camera and produce the same field of view.
There are much smaller sensors—micro four-thirds, for example—that are capable of producing very sharp images. Future versions of this guide may include some micro four-thirds cameras, but for now, to keep things simple, I've limited testing to APS-C and larger sensors.
Photograph: Sony Best for Most People Sony A7 IV Camera Sony's A7 IV ( 9/10, WIRED Recommends ) is a 33-megapixel, full-frame camera capable of incredibly sharp images, with excellent dynamic range and the best autofocus system on the market. It's compact and light enough to carry all day without back strain, and the grip is comfortable. The five-axis image stabilization means you can hand-hold it in lower light, and the wide range of 4K video options make it the best all-around video-and-stills combo on this page. There are better still cameras (see the Sony A7RIV below) and better video cameras, but nothing else combines the two quite as well.
What I don't like about it, or any other Sony, is the labyrinthine menu system. Luckily there are enough customizable buttons that it's not too difficult to set things up so you never need to dive into the menus.
Specs: 33-megapixel full-frame sensor, 10 frames per second (fps), 7K oversampled 4K/30fps video, SD and Express cards ★ Alternative: If you don't need the new autofocus features, the A7III remains a solid choice, and it's frequently on sale for under $1,800.
$2,498 at Amazon $2,498 at B&H Photo Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers Photograph: Fujifilm Best on a Budget Fujifilm X-T5 Mirrorless Camera The Fujifilm X-T5 ( 9/10, WIRED Recommends ) is the best camera I've tested this year. Fujifilm uses APS-C sensors, which are smaller than the full-frame sensors in the rest of the cameras in this guide, but with the 40-megapixel sensor in the new X-T5 you'd be hard-pressed to tell the difference. Images from the X-T5 are sharp, wonderfully detailed, and don't suffer too much noise. This sensor also manages to retain that uniquely Fujifilm look.
The X-T5 is more focused on the shooter of stills, while the updated X-H2 ($2,500 with XF16-80mm Lens Kit) is the best option for those more interested in video. The camera body's design is reminiscent of film cameras, and perhaps the best thing about it is how seldom you need to use digital controls. ISO, shutter speed, exposure compensation, and shooting modes are all accessible via physical dials. Plus, Fujifilm's excellent line of lenses is surprisingly affordable relative to some of the others on the list, making this one of the least expensive systems to invest in. My only real gripe is the grip; it's on the small side for a body of this size.
Specs: 40-megapixel XTrans APS-C sensor, 15 fps with full AF, 4K/60fps video, dual SD cards ★ Alternatives: The Fujilfilm X-T4 ($1,549) remains a solid choice, especially if you want a fully articulated rear screen, which is helpful when shooting video of yourself. Also, the X-H2 has a rotating screen, which the X-T5 lacks.
$1,696 at Amazon $1,699 at BHPhoto Photograph: Sony Megapixel Madness Sony A7RV The new A7RV uses the same 61-megapixel full-frame sensor as its predecessor, which remains largely unmatched (unless you opt for medium-format cameras). If that's not enough, there's a 16-shot, high-resolution mode that can create 240-MP images (so long as your subject is static, e.g., a landscape). The dynamic range is outstanding, and the ability to recover detail in the shadows is something you'll only believe once you do it yourself.
The primary improvements over the previous model are increased autofocus speed and intelligence, a huge new viewfinder and, although this might sound strange, an option for smaller RAW files. Fully uncompressed RAW files from this sensor run around 125 megabytes per image. There are now options to shoot large, medium or small lossless compressed RAW files. I haven't tested this model, but I will update this guide after I do.
Specs: 61-megapixel full-frame sensor, 10 fps with full AF (12 bit RAM, 6 fps for 14-bit RAW), 8K/24fps video, dual SD/CF cards $3,898 at Amazon $3,898 at B&H Photo Photograph: Nikon Best for Nikon Fans Nikon Z6 II The Nikon Z6 II is Nikon's answer to the Sony A7III, and it is a good answer for dedicated Nikon shooters. The 24-megapixel full-frame sensor has excellent dynamic range, and the phase-detect autofocus system is one of the best I've used. Video quality is also excellent, with 10-bit 4:2:2 N-Log output possible over HDMI. The Nikon Z6 II is also the most comfortable camera to hold on this list. Although this will depend somewhat on the size of your hands, the grip is larger and more generously spaced than on the Sony or Fujifilm cameras.
The Z-series lens system is intriguing for its wider base mount, which allows more light to the corners of the sensors. The benefits of this can be seen in the incredibly fast 58-mm f/0.95 lens (manual focus) and the surprisingly small 50-mm f/1.2. If you've got a lot of legacy Nikon glass you want to keep using, there's an F-to-Z mount adapter available for $250.
Specs: 24-megapixel full-frame sensor, 12 fps with full AF, 4K/30fps video, XQD/CFexpress (Type B), and SD card slot ★ Alternatives: For more resolution, there's the Z7 II, which is very nearly identical to the Z6 II except it has a 42-megapixel sensor. It's more expensive, at $3,000.
 The Nikon Z5, on the other hand, is one of the cheapest full-frame cameras. Often on sale for around $1,100 , the Z5 is a stripped-down Z6. The sensor is the same, but you lose much of the video features of the Z6.
$1,997 at B&HPhoto $1,997 at Adorama Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers Photograph: Canon Best for Canon Fans Canon EOS-R The Canon EOS R is a mirrorless option for people who loved their DSLRs. It's a hefty beast, with a solid feel that reminds me of what I used to love about film cameras. Even the on-off switch is made of metal. The sensor is typically Canon, which is to say sharp, with good contrast and the characteristic Canon color rendering (it's slightly warmer in tone than some of the others here). The phase-detect autofocus is fast and accurate. One thing to note: The rumor mills suggest that the R might be getting an update in 2023.
One thing I really like is that when you change lenses there's a cover that swings out to protect the sensor from dust. (The exception is if you have an adapter and you remove the lens but not the adapter.) Every camera on this list would benefit from adopting this feature. The R-Mount lens system uses a very wide base diameter, like the Nikon system, and achieves similar results—there are fast R lenses around. The better news for those already invested in Canon glass is that there's a $99 adapter that will let you affix just about any older Canon lens to the R.
Specs: 30-megapixel full-frame sensor, 8 fps with autofocus, 4K/30fps video, dual SD card slots ★ Alternatives: Canon has gone all-in on mirrorless in the past couple of years, with everything from this budget R model to the massive (and massively expensive) R5 ($3,500).
 They're all nice, especially if you have a lot of those sweet legacy Canon lenses.
$1,799 at Amazon Buy at Adorama Photograph: Panasonic Best for Video Panasonic Lumix DC-S5 Panasonic's S5 is a compact, full-frame mirrorless with a very sharp 24-megapixel sensor. The S5 mostly holds its own against the rest of these full-frame cameras in still image quality, but what really sets it apart is the extra video features you won't find elsewhere. Support for V-Log recording, anamorphic 4K support, and uncropped 4K at 30 frames per second top the list. The result is a camera that's perfect for hybrid video and stills shooters.
The one place this camera struggles is autofocus, especially when shooting video. That's where the new S5II should be a significant step up. It features a new chip with onboard phase detection and, from early reports, appears to bring the S5's autofocus up to snuff. Unfortunately it's also significantly more expensive at $2,300.
 We haven't had a chance to test this one, but if you can afford it, on paper it's well worth the upgrade.
Both S5s use the L-mount lens system, an effort to do for full-frame what Panasonic did for micro four-thirds: create a unified lens mount standard. Leica is the driving force behind the L-mount, but Panasonic and Sigma also have plenty of glass in L-mount. That means there's no shortage of lenses for the S5. If your primary use case is video, be sure to check out our guide to the gear and tips you need to make studio-grade home videos.
Specs: 24-megapixel full-frame sensor (no AA filter), 5 fps with autofocus, 4K/30fps video, dual SD card slots $1,498 at Amazon $1,498 at B&H Photo Photograph: Fujifilm Best for Travel Fujifilm X100V The Fujifilm X100V ( 9/10, WIRED Recommends ) is a few years old, but it's still one of our favorite cameras, especially for travel and street photography. Unlike the other cameras in this guide, the X100V has a fixed 23-mm lens (35-mm equivalent in full-frame). The X100V is a joy to use and produces wonderful images. The main problem is that a TikTok-inspired obsession with this camera has driven the price up to insanity levels. Don't pay more than $1,400 for this one.
Specs: 26-megapixel XTrans APS-C sensor, 8 fps with autofocus, 4K/30fps video, single SD card slot ★ Alternatives: There are regrettably few travel-friendly full-frame or even APS-C cameras. The Sony RX1 RII is the most compact full-frame, but it hasn't seen an update in years and is difficult to find new. Other than that, travelers are probably better off dropping down to a high-end pocket camera with a one-inch sensor like the Sony RX 100 series.
 The latest is the RX 100 VII ($1,298).
$2,299 at Amazon Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers Photograph: Wotancraft Buying Advice Mirrorless Camera Tips There is no such thing as the perfect camera. Each has its own limitations, and part of the magic of photography is learning how to get around them. What you want to find is the camera best suited to the type of photos you like to take.
If you want to shoot wildlife, you need good in-body stabilization. If you're a street photographer shooting from the hip, stabilization isn't as important, but an extending viewfinder screen becomes paramount. If you're a landscape photographer who always uses a tripod, you probably don't need either of those things, but you might need a sensor capable of sharp, wall-size prints.
Once you've figured out the best camera for your needs, buy a lens to go with it and start shooting every day. Read the manual for your camera and learn what it can and cannot do, and then use it over and over until it is an effortless extension of your mind. Once you have the comfort level, the gear fades into the background where it belongs, and you can focus on making the images you've always dreamed of creating.
Oh, and hey, you may want to pick up a camera bag, sling, cube, or other accessories for your new system. We have just the guide to help.
Senior Writer and Reviewer X Topics Shopping cameras Photography Sony buying guides Reece Rogers Erica Kasper Reece Rogers Chris Baraniuk Virginia Heffernan Brenda Stolyar Julian Chokkattu Julian Chokkattu WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code Samsung coupon Code for up to 40% Off the store Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Redeem $1000 discount on iPhone 15 Pro and Pro Max - Best Buy coupon VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón
