old id = 1743
Open Twitter
2023
https://incidentdatabase.ai

AI Incident Database English English Español Français Beta Discover Submit Welcome to the AIID Discover Incidents Spatial View Table View Entities Taxonomies Word Counts Submit Incident Reports Submission Leaderboard Blog AI News Digest Subscribe Discover Submit Welcome to the AIID Discover Incidents Spatial View Table View Entities Taxonomies Word Counts Submit Incident Reports Submission Leaderboard Blog AI News Digest Subscribe Search Discover A man was encouraged by a chatbot to kill Queen Elizabeth II in 2021. He was sentenced to 9 years Latest Incident Report 2023-10-15 LONDON (AP) — A Star Wars fanatic who was encouraged by a chatbot “girlfriend” to assassinate Queen Elizabeth II was sentenced Thursday to nine years in prison for taking his plot to Windsor Castle, where he scaled the walls and was caught … Facebook’s new AI-generated stickers are lewd, rude, and occasionally nude 2023-10-25 Some early user tests for Meta’s new AI-generated sticker tool have resulted in some dubious (and rather hilarious) creations. After gaining access to the new AI-generated sticker tool on Facebook Messenger, X user @Pioldes was able to crea… U.S. Tries New Tack on Russian Disinformation: Pre-Empting It 2023-10-26 An article that appeared in August on an international news outlet, Pressenza, recycled a false Russian claim that the West was looting religious relics and art from a monastery in Ukraine’s capital, Kyiv, one of the holiest sites in Russia… Was Slovakia election the first swung by deepfakes? 2023-10-15 A couple of days before Slovakia's election last Saturday, a prominent journalist was sent a recording circulating on social media that alarmed her. In it, Monika Todova heard herself discussing with Michal Simecka, a leading liberal politi… Untitled LinkedIn post 2023-10-24 Truly disgusting PicSo_ ai , and thanks Meta / Instagram for advertising it right along with my NBA and F1 memes.
Obviously #generativeAI is going to devolve into all kinds of pornography applications, but Picso's emphasis on "girls" is quite … Common Entities 1. Facebook Involved in 48 incidents, allegedly harming 86 entities, with 0 incident responses.
2. Tesla Involved in 39 incidents, allegedly harming 49 entities, with 0 incident responses.
3. Google Involved in 32 incidents, allegedly harming 50 entities, with 0 incident responses.
Quick Add New Report URL About the Database The AI Incident Database is dedicated to indexing the collective history of harms or near harms realized in the real world by the deployment of artificial intelligence systems. Like similar databases in aviation and computer security, the AI Incident Database aims to learn from experience so we can prevent or mitigate bad outcomes.
You are invited to submit incident reports, whereupon submissions will be indexed and made discoverable to the world. Artificial intelligence will only be a benefit to people and society if we collectively record and learn from its failings.
(Learn More) Submit Your AI Incident Research to IAAI! Latest Blog Post By Scott Cambo 2023-07-19 Answer the Questions: What happened and why? Who: AI, human factors, safety, and ethics researchers Where: Innovative Applications of Artifi...
The Database in Print Read about the database on the PAI Blog , Vice News , Venture Beat , Wired , arXiv , and Newsweek among other outlets.
Incident Report Submission Leaderboards These are the persons and entities credited with creating and submitted incident reports. More details are available on the leaderboard page.
New Incidents Contributed 🥇 Anonymous 91 🥈 Khoa Lam 90 🥉 Daniel Atherton 79 Reports added to Existing Incidents 🥇 Khoa Lam 225 🥈 Anonymous 134 🥉 Daniel Atherton 116 Total Report Contributions 🥇 Anonymous 740 🥈 Daniel Atherton 528 🥉 Khoa Lam 449 Random Incidents Predictive Policing Biases of PredPol ChatGPT Reportedly Produced False Court Case Law Presented by Legal Counsel in Court Users Bypassed ChatGPT's Content Filters with Ease Google’s YouTube Kids App Presents Inappropriate Content Poor Performance of Tesla Factory Robots The Responsible AI Collaborative The AI Incident Database is a project of the Responsible AI Collaborative, an organization chartered to advance the AI Incident Database. The governance of the Collaborative is architected around the participation in its impact programming. For more details, we invite you to read the founding report and learn more on our board and contributors.
View the Responsible AI Collaborative’s Form 990 and tax-exempt application.
Organization Founding Sponsor Database Founding Sponsor Sponsors and Grants In-Kind Sponsors Research Defining an “AI Incident” Defining an “AI Incident Response” Database Roadmap Related Work Download Complete Database Project and Community About Contact and Follow About Apps Editor’s Guide Incidents All Incidents in List Form Flagged Incidents Submission Queue Classifications View Taxonomies 2023 - AI Incident Database
