old id = 305
4 Best VPN Services (2023): For Routers, PC, iPhone, Android, and More | WIRED
2023
https://www.wired.com/story/best-vpn

Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Best Pumpkin Carving Kits How to Use Dall-E 3 in ChatGPT Best Steam Deck Accessories Beginner Birding Gear How to Use Your Phone Addiction for Good Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Scott Gilbertson Gear The Best VPNs to Protect Yourself Online Photograph: Westend61/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save A virtual private network (VPN) is like a protective tunnel you can use to pass through a public network, protecting your data from outside eyes. Whether you're worried about hiding your browsing activity from your internet service provider so it doesn't sell your data to advertisers, or you want to stay safe on a public Wi-Fi hot spot to keep nearby digital snoops from capturing your passwords, a VPN can help protect you.
However, while a VPN will keep you safe at your local coffee shop, it comes with a cost. Using a VPN means your VPN provider will know everything about your browsing habits. This makes VPN providers a target for hackers. Be sure you even need one before you read on.
Picking the right VPN service is serious business.
 Most VPN providers say they keep no logs of their users' activity, but this is rarely verified. You're stuck taking companies at their word. For this reason, we've limited our testing to VPN providers that have been independently audited by security firms and have published the results.
To help you sort out when and why you might want a VPN, as well as why you might not, be sure to read through our complete guide to VPNs below. If you're sure you want to use a VPN, here are our top picks among commercial VPN providers.
Updated July 2023: We've removed NordVPN based on reader feedback, changed our top pick to Mullvad, and added some notes on why we don't recommend most VPNs.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get a 1-year subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.
com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
Scott Gilbertson via Mullvad After years of testing VPNs for WIRED, Mullvad is the last provider I haven't lost faith in. I know that's not a ringing endorsement, but the world of VPNs is full of shady companies, so trusting any of them is a leap. Mullvad is the only one left.
Part of what I like about Mullvad is its down-to-earth approach that doesn't overhype with its marketing and helps users take additional steps to protect their privacy. For example, the company has an entire page showing you how to disable WebRTC in your web browser.
 As long as WebRTC is enabled (and it is by default in most browsers), websites can view your actual IP address even when you use a VPN.
Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers Another thing I like is Mullvad's system for accepting cash payments. If you prefer to remain totally anonymous, you can generate a random account number, write that number down on a slip of paper, and mail it, along with cash, to Sweden. In theory, no one will be able to connect you to that account. (The truly paranoid will don a tinfoil hat, wear gloves, print from a public printer, and mail from a remote mailbox.) I have not tested the cash option, but I did recently extend my Mullvad subscription using bitcoin, and it worked without a hitch.
Mullvad offers apps for every major platform, as well as routers. The applications are all open source, and you can check the code yourself on GitHub. The service has been independently audited as well. Advanced users can download configuration files and use them directly with OpenVPN or Wireguard.
In my testing, speeds were very good. I never encountered a situation where I couldn't get a fast connection. Over the years Mullvad remains the VPN I rely on day-to-day.
Mullvad VPN costs 5 euros (around $6) per month, cash or charge.
Courtesy of Surfshark $4 at Surfshark (one-year) $2.50 at Surfshark (two-year) Surfshark wouldn't be my top pick if my life depended on my VPN, but for most of us that's not the case. If you just want a way to get around some geographical restrictions on content (aka access Netflix) and protect your traffic while using an open Wi-Fi hot spot, Surfshark is a good choice. It's secure, and it provides a great value for the money if you pay for two years up front.
In my testing over the years, Surfshark has consistently had some of the best speeds of any VPN I've used. Yes, it is slower than not using a VPN, but I have never had any problem streaming HD content through Surfshark. It's fast enough that in most cases you won't notice any speed degradation at all.
Surfshark offers a kill switch that automatically stops your traffic if your VPN connection fails, and it supports multihop VPN connects, which means your traffic goes from your machine to a VPN server to another VPN server, and then to the destination server. This provides an extra layer of protection should the VPN itself be compromised, though there is a corresponding speed hit when using a multihop connection. The company also recently added support for manual Wireguard configuration. Most people will be fine sticking with Surfshark's apps, but if you're trying to connect your entire network to Surfshark directly through a router, the manual configuration will be welcome news.
Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers I have not had a chance to test it much yet, but Surfshark recently added support for dedicated IP addresses. Given that shared IPs are how some websites block VPNs, a dedicated IP could be handy. Surfshark has six dedicated IP locations, but the number of IPs is limited. A dedicated IP will set you back another $3.75 per month and only works with Surfshark's apps. I have not had a chance to test this enough to say whether it's worth it or not.
Surfshark is based in the British Virgin Islands, which, although technically a territory of Great Britain, is generally considered a safe haven and has no data-retention laws. What I don't like is that Surfshark is legally untested. The company has a zero-log policy, and you can (and should) opt out of the diagnostic crash reports in the app. The company's browser extensions have undergone an independent security audit that didn't turn up any significant problems, and in January 2023, the auditing firm Deloitte verified Surfshark's no-logs statement.
Surfshark recently merged with NordVPN. So far we have not noticed any changes for its customers, but we will be keeping an eye on it going forward.
Surfshark costs $2.50 per month if you buy two years up front, and $4 per month if you buy one year up front.
Courtesy of Tunnelbear $3.33 at TunnelBear (monthly) Choosing a VPN can be overwhelming. If you're tired of security mumbo jumbo and lock icons, TunnelBear might be the VPN for you. Its cute bear animations help demystify what VPNs do, how they work, and what they can offer you. Sometimes the easiest way to make technology more approachable is to put a friendly face on it.
Don't worry though, TunnelBear isn't all cute bear animations. It has the same security features as other VPN providers, like a no-logging policy and a clear privacy policy , and it's been independently audited.
In my testing, speeds with TunnelBear were competitive with the other options listed here. One of my favorite parts of TunnelBear is the free trial option, which makes it easy to test-drive it and see what your speeds are like without committing. TunnelBear has fewer geographic server locations than some of our other options, but unless you're traveling abroad or need to get around a specific geo-restriction, that shouldn't matter for most users.
Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers TunnelBear costs $3.33 per month if you buy one year up front.
Scott Gilbertson via Tor If you're in a situation where personal security is of the utmost importance, do not rely on a VPN. Use Tor (ideally through Tails ) instead.
Using the Tor network accomplishes some of the same things as a VPN, but it's a little bit different. Tor provides anonymity, meaning no one can figure out who you are, but not necessarily privacy. People still might be able to see what you're doing, they just won't know it's you doing it. (VPNs provide privacy because no one can see what you're doing while you're going out of a VPN tunnel, but you don't have anonymity because the VPN provider knows who you are.) Tor is simple to set up. All you need to do is download the Tor browser , and it will connect you to the web. Once you're connected to the Tor network, you can browse the web as you normally would. Except everything will be slower. When using Tor, your request for a website hops around the Tor network, bouncing between servers, before emerging and connecting to the actual site you want to visit. This makes Tor slow, sometimes incredibly slow, but that's necessary to protect your anonymity. And yes, you can combine a VPN with Tor, though that's somewhat beyond the scope of this guide.
WIRED readers have repeatedly asked about Google's VPN, which is now a standard part of Google One. Basically, as long as you aren't put in danger by whatever you're doing over a VPN, then Google One is probably fine. It's a traditional VPN, and judging from the white paper Google released about it , it isn't tied to your Google account. In other words, it's better than browsing in the clear over the coffee shop network.
That said, let us not forget that Google has repeatedly been caught collecting data it said it wasn't , and that it took a massive antitrust lawsuit by the US government just to get Chrome to block third-party cookies (among others). That's not to say Google's VPN is logging your data, just that we don't know for sure, you don't know for sure, and Google's track record isn't the best.
Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers When it comes to speed, my limited experience with Google VPN has been that it’s just above average, on par with those of NordVPN and Mullvad but generally behind Surfshark’s.
All of that is to say, I do not recommend VPN by Google One. If your VPN needs are minimal, you'll probably be fine, but most people will be better served by using a dedicated VPN from one of the providers recommended above.
In the past we have recommended NordVPN, but more recent experiences of both WIRED staffers and readers who've emailed me have revealed serious lapses in NordVPN's customer service and VPN apps. Based on these experiences, we've dropped our recommendation.
We also used to recommend ExpressVPN, but we no longer do because it has a new parent company and we haven't been able to verify anything about it.
There are literally hundreds of VPNs out there, but most of them are not worth your money. If all you want to do is circumvent some Netflix geographic restriction, then just about any of them will work (we still suggest sticking with our recommended options, but if you can't be stopped, then carry on). For anything more serious, like actually protecting your privacy and data, learn to use Tor. Yes, it's a little technical, but trust me, it's worth learning how to do if your life, family, job, etc, are at stake.
VPN providers like to claim they keep no logs, which means they know nothing about what you do using their services. There are a variety of reasons to be skeptical about this claim, namely because they have to have a user ID of some kind tied to a payment method, which means the potential exists to link your credit card number (and thus your identity) to your browsing activity.
For that reason, I mainly limited my testing to providers that have been subpoenaed for user data in the US or Europe and failed to produce the logs, or have at least undergone a third-party security audit. While these criteria can't guarantee the providers aren't saving log data, this method of selection gives us a starting point for filtering through the hundreds of VPN providers. Unfortunately, other factors also come into play. VPNs that once made our list—like ExpressVPN—are sometimes sold to less reputable companies.
Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers Using these criteria, I narrowed the field to the most popular, reputable VPN providers and began testing them over a variety of networks (4G, cable, FiOS, and plenty of painfully slow coffee shop networks) over the years. I tested network speed and ease of use (how you connect), and I also considered available payment methods, how often connections dropped, and any slowdowns I encountered.
It's important to understand not just what a VPN can do, but also what it can't do. As noted above, VPNs act like a protective tunnel. A VPN shields you from people trying to snoop on your traffic while it's in transit between your computer and the website you're browsing or the service you're using.
Public networks that anyone can join—even if they have to use a password to connect—are easy hunting grounds for attackers who want to see your network data. If your data is being sent unencrypted—like if the website you're connecting to doesn't use the secure HTTPS method—the amount of information an attacker can gather from you can be disastrous. Web browsers used to show a green lock icon at the top of your screen next to the web address, but that's going away.
 Instead browsers will warn you when a page isn't secure. These days, most websites connect using HTTPS, so you're probably fine most of the time, but on school, library, and small business websites that may not always be the case. Unless you're using a VPN, which hides all of your activity, even on unencrypted websites.
Just connecting to a VPN isn't enough. Be sure to check out our guide to using a VPN to make sure you have everything set up correctly.
A VPN also changes your IP address, which adds an additional layer of protection. By giving you a different IP address, a VPN can make it appear as though you're in a different physical location. So even if you're sitting in California, the website you're accessing will think you're in Canada, Hungary, Uruguay, or Thailand. Unfortunately, this method of obscuring your location is not airtight. Technology built into web browsers that's known as WebRTC can leak your true IP address even when you're using a VPN. If this is a concern, disable WebRTC in your browser before connecting to a VPN. Mullvad has instructions on how to disable WebRTC in most browsers.
Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers It's debatable how much masking your IP address really helps protect your privacy in the first place. Your IP address is only one of many, many bits of data websites collect about you. If privacy is your concern, you're better off using web browsers (and extensions) that offer additional tools to protect your privacy.
Mozilla Firefox has several of these tools available. Or if you want to get serious about it, use the ultra-private Tor browser as noted above.
To add to the confusion around VPNs, providers—even some I've recommended here, unfortunately—often engage in misleading marketing. Nearly every VPN service website I visited had some kind of red banner claiming I was “not protected,” even when I was using a VPN at the time. The problem is that I wasn't using their VPN. More honest VPN providers, like Mullvad, tell you what's actually happening: “You're not protected by Mullvad.
” Kudos to Mullvad for not using fear to sell subscriptions.
Either way, the important thing to remember is that using a VPN does not make you anonymous. While VPNs may not be able to do much to protect your privacy, they are an essential tool when it comes to protecting you from snoops trying to gather your unencrypted data sent over insecure networks.
You Might Also Like … 📩 Get the long view on tech with Steven Levy's Plaintext newsletter Watch this guy work, and you’ll finally understand the TikTok era The whole of the Whole Earth Catalog is now online Elon Musk mocked Ukraine , and Russian trolls went wild Job hunting sucks.
 This programmer filled out 250 applications to find out why History says the 1918 flu killed the young and healthy.
These bones say otherwise 🌲 Our Gear team has branched out with a new guide to the best sleeping pads and fresh picks for the best coolers and binoculars Senior Writer and Reviewer X Topics Shopping buying guides VPN privacy Browsers Julian Chokkattu Lauren Goode Parker Hall Simon Hill Lauren Goode Reece Rogers Justin Pot Adrienne So WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart coupon: $10 Off any size order + free delivery Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code Samsung coupon Code for up to 40% Off the store Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón
