old id = 9
Blog - Google DeepMind
2023
https://www.deepmind.com/blog-categories/applied

DeepMind Search Search Close DeepMind About Overview Responsibility & Safety Education Careers Press Technologies Impact Discover Overview Blog The Podcast Visualising AI Search Search Close Research A glimpse of the next generation of AlphaFold All categories Company Events Impact Life at DeepMind Open source Research Responsibility & Safety Load previous Research A glimpse of the next generation of AlphaFold Progress update: Our latest AlphaFold model shows significantly improved accuracy and expands coverage beyond proteins to other biological molecules, including ligands.
Responsibility & Safety Evaluating social and ethical risks from generative AI Introducing a context-based framework for comprehensively evaluating the social and ethical risks of AI systems Research Scaling up learning across many different robot types Robots are great specialists, but poor generalists. Typically, you have to train a model for each task, robot, and environment. Changing a single variable often requires starting from scratch. But...
Research A catalogue of genetic mutations to help pinpoint the cause of diseases New AI tool classifies the effects of 71 million ‘missense’ mutations.
Research Identifying AI-generated images with SynthID New tool helps watermark and identify synthetic images created by Imagen Research RT-2: New model translates vision and language into action Robotic Transformer 2 (RT-2) is a novel vision-language-action (VLA) model that learns from both web and robotics data, and translates this knowledge into generalised instructions for robotic control.
Company Using AI to fight climate change AI is a powerful technology that will transform our future, so how can we best apply it to help combat climate change and find sustainable solutions? Events Google DeepMind’s latest research at ICML 2023 Exploring AI safety, adaptability, and efficiency for the real world Research Developing reliable AI tools for healthcare We’ve published our joint paper with Google Research in Nature Medicine, which proposes CoDoC (Complementarity-driven Deferral-to-Clinical Workflow), an AI system that learns when to rely on...
Responsibility & Safety Exploring institutions for global AI governance New white paper investigates models and functions of international institutions that could help manage opportunities and mitigate risks of advanced AI.
Research RoboCat: A self-improving robotic agent Robots are quickly becoming part of our everyday lives, but they’re often only programmed to perform specific tasks well. While harnessing recent advances in AI could lead to robots that could...
Impact AlphaDev discovers faster sorting algorithms New algorithms will transform the foundations of computing Load more Footer links Follow us Email (e.g., name@example.com) I accept Google's Terms and Conditions and acknowledge that my information will be used in accordance with Google's Privacy Policy.
About Google Google products Privacy Terms Cookies management controls
