old id = 355
Ethics of Artificial Intelligence | Articles
2023
https://en.unesco.org/artificial-intelligence/ethics

42nd Session of the General Conference from 7 to 22 November 2023 Articles Secondary menu Newsroom #SharingHumanity Explore UNESCO Explore UNESCO Articles Who we are About us UNESCO in Brief Our vision for peace History of UNESCO Key Challenges Key Figures Key achievements UNESCO House - Visit us Governance Member States Portal General Conference Executive Board Director-General Strategic Management Board Office of International Standards and Legal Affairs Legal & Basic Texts Accountability Core data portal Budget & Strategy Internal Oversight Service Reform / Strategic transformation Funding needs and Data Financial regulations Access to Information Networks Field Offices NGOs and Foundations Associated Schools Unitwin UNESCO Goodwill Ambassadors Institutes and Centres Engage Spread the Word Donate Become a partner Careers at UNESCO Subscribe to our Newsletter What we do Our expertise Education Natural Sciences Ocean Science Social and Human Sciences Culture Communication and Information Our Impact Norms & Standards Ideas & Data Take Action Publications and Global Reports Key Challenges Futures of Education Spirit of Mosul Ethics of A.I Biodiversity All Key Challenges Global Priorities Gender Equality Priority Africa News and Stories News & Press release Stories Where we work UNESCO lists and designations Creative Cities Biosphere Reserves Memory of the World Register Intangible Cultural Heritage UNESCO Global Geoparks World Heritage Prizes UNESCO in the World Member States Field Offices Networks Resources Calendar of events Statutory Meetings Governing Bodies Delegates Meetings Cultural Events at Headquarters UNESCO commemorations Documents UNESDOC - Digital library Art Collection Multimedia archives Archives UNESCO Courier Official Photo Gallery Basic Texts Databases and Statistics Core data portal More data Observatory of killed Journalists UNESCO Institute for Statistics World Inequality Database on Education UNESCO Classroom UNESCO Campus All UNESCO websites Pan-African Forum for the Culture of Peace Public access to information is a key component of UNESCO's commitment to transparency and its accountability.
Based on human rights and fundamental freedoms, the 2005 Convention ultimately provides a new framework for informed, transparent and parti UNESCO’s e-Platform on intercultural dialogue is designed for organizations and individuals to learn from shared knowledge or experiences from infl Established in 2002, the GEM Report is an editorially independent report, hosted and published by UNESCO.
To recovery and beyond: The report takes stock of the global progress on the adoption and implementation of legal guarantees on Access to Informati Addressing culture as a global public good For almost 75 years, the UNESCO Courier has served as a platform for international debates on issues that concern the entire planet.
Lifelong learning is key to overcoming global challenges and to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
Main UNESCO website UNESCO Digital Library website.
The Value of water Groundwater, making the invisible visible English Français Español Русский العربية 中文 Articles Main navigation Expertise We bring people and nations together through education, culture and science.
Our Expertise Key Challenges Education Education Natural Sciences Natural Sciences Social and Human Sciences Social and Human Sciences Culture Culture Communication & Information Communication & Information Ocean Ocean Priority Africa Priority Africa Priority Gender Equality Priority Gender Equality Impact Discover UNESCO's impact around the world and the organisation's endeavour to build durable peace.
Our Impact Core Data Portal Impact Stories Impact Stories Lists and designations Lists and designations Standard setting & legal affairs Standard setting & legal affairs UNESCO in the World UNESCO in the World Publications & Data UNESCO is the United Nations Laboratory of Ideas. Find the latest Ideas, Multimedia content, Free courses, publications and reports.
Facts and figures Laboratory of Ideas Laboratory of Ideas Data Center Data Center Publications Publications UNESCO Studio UNESCO Studio Get Involved There are many ways to take action with UNESCO - everyone can make a difference. Join us and leave your mark ! Take action Subscribe to our Newsletter Spread the word Spread the word Become a partner Become a partner Join UNESCO Join UNESCO Donate Donate Quick links: Breadcrumb Artificial Intelligence Home Ethics of Artificial Intelligence Events Roadmap Expertise Innovation in teaching and learning Women’s access & participation in technological developments Ethics of Science, Technology & Bioethics Digital Capacity Building For Policymakers For the judiciary Developing policies & capacities Fostering gender equality and youth inclusion Rights, Openness, Accessibility, & Multi-stakeholder Resources Report of COMEST on robotics ethics Global South map of emerging areas in Artificial Intelligence 7 minutes to understand AI Preliminary study On the Ethics of Artificial Intelligence On a possible standard-setting instrument on the ethics of AI On the technical and legal aspects relating to a standard-setting instrument on the ethics of AI Ethics of Artificial Intelligence With its unique mandate, UNESCO has led the international effort to ensure that science and technology develop with strong ethical guardrails for decades.
Be it on genetic research, climate change, or scientific research, UNESCO has delivered global standards to maximize the benefits of the scientific discoveries, while minimizing the downside risks, ensuring they contribute to a more inclusive, sustainable, and peaceful world. It has also identified frontier challenges in areas such as the ethics of neurotechnology, on climate engineering, and the internet of things.
The rapid rise in artificial intelligence (AI) has created many opportunities globally , from facilitating healthcare diagnoses to enabling human connections through social media and creating labour efficiencies through automated tasks.
However, these rapid changes also raise profound ethical concerns.
 These arise from the potential AI systems have to embed biases, contribute to climate degradation, threaten human rights and more. Such risks associated with AI have already begun to compound on top of existing inequalities, resulting in further harm to already marginalised groups.
OLD Today, artificial intelligence plays a role in billions of people’s lives. Sometimes unnoticed but often with profound consequences, it transforms our societies and challenges what it means to be human.
AI can provide millions of students with support to complete secondary education, fill an additional 3.3 million jobs, and, more urgently, help us tackle the spread and the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic. Along with multiple advantages, these technologies also generate downside risks and challenges, derived from malicious use of technology or deepening inequalities and divides.
In no other field is the ethical compass more relevant than in artificial intelligence.
These general-purpose technologies are re-shaping the way we work, interact, and live. The world is set to change at a pace not seen since the deployment of the printing press six centuries ago. AI technology brings major benefits in many areas, but without the ethical guardrails , it risks reproducing real world biases and discrimination, fueling divisions and threatening fundamental human rights and freedoms.
Gabriela Ramos Assistant Director-General for Social and Human Sciences of UNESCO Read the full message from Gabriela Ramos Recommendation on the Ethics of Artificial Intelligence UNESCO produced the first-ever global standard on AI ethics – the ‘Recommendation on the Ethics of Artificial Intelligence ’ in November 2021. This framework was adopted by all 193 Member States.
The protection of human rights and dignity is the cornerstone of the Recommendation, based on the advancement of fundamental principles such as transparency and fairness, always remembering the importance of human oversight of AI systems.
However, what makes the Recommendation exceptionally applicable are its extensive Policy Action Areas , which allow policymakers to translate the core values and principles into action with respect to data governance, environment and ecosystems, gender, education and research, and health and social wellbeing, among many other spheres.
Four core values Respect, protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms and human dignity just, and interconnected societies A dynamic understanding of AI The Recommendation interprets AI broadly as systems with the ability to process data in a way which resembles intelligent behaviour.
This is crucial as the rapid pace of technological change would quickly render any fixed, narrow definition outdated, and make future-proof policies infeasible.
A human rights approach to AI The use of AI systems must not go beyond what is necessary to achieve a legitimate aim. Risk assessment should be used to prevent harms which may result from such uses.
Unwanted harms (safety risks) as well as vulnerabilities to attack (security risks) should be avoided and addressed by AI actors.
Privacy must be protected and promoted throughout the AI lifecycle. Adequate data protection frameworks should also be established.
International law & national sovereignty must be respected in the use of data. Additionally, participation of diverse stakeholders is necessary for inclusive approaches to AI governance.
AI systems should be auditable and traceable. There should be oversight, impact assessment, audit and due diligence mechanisms in place to avoid conflicts with human rights norms and threats to environmental wellbeing.
The ethical deployment of AI systems depends on their transparency & explainability (T&E). The level of T&E should be appropriate to the context, as there may be tensions between T&E and other principles such as privacy, safety and security.
Member States should ensure that AI systems do not displace ultimate human responsibility and accountability.
AI technologies should be assessed against their impacts on ‘sustainability’, understood as a set of constantly evolving goals including those set out in the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals.
Public understanding of AI and data should be promoted through open & accessible education, civic engagement, digital skills & AI ethics training, media & information literacy.
AI actors should promote social justice, fairness, and non-discrimination while taking an inclusive approach to ensure AI’s benefits are accessible to all.
Actionable policies Key policy areas make clear arenas where Member States can make strides towards responsible developments in AI While values and principles are crucial to establishing a basis for any ethical AI framework, recent movements in AI ethics have emphasised the need to move beyond high-level principles and toward practical strategies.
The Recommendation does just this by setting out eleven key areas for policy actions.
Implementing the Recommendation The RAM is designed to help assess whether Member States are prepared to effectively implement the Recommendation. It will help them identify their status of preparedness & provide a basis for UNESCO to custom-tailor its capacity-building support.
EIA is a structured process which helps AI project teams, in collaboration with the affected communities, to identify & assess the impacts an AI system may have. It allows to reflect on its potential impact & to identify needed harm prevention actions.
Women4Ethical AI expert platform to advance gender equality UNESCO's Women4Ethical AI is a new collaborative platform to support governments and companies’ efforts to ensure that women are represented equally in both the design and deployment of AI.
 The platform’s members will also contribute to the advancement of all the ethical provisions in the Recommendation on the Ethics of AI.
The platform unites 17 leading female experts from academia, civil society, the private sector and regulatory bodies, from around the world. They will share research and contribute to a repository of good practices. The platform will drive progress on non-discriminatory algorithms and data sources, and incentivize girls, women and under-represented groups to participate in AI.
Read more on Women4Ethical AI Ibero-American Business Council for Ethics of AI The Ibero-American Business Council for Ethics of AI is a collaborative initiative between UNESCO and companies operating in Latin America that are involved in the development or use of artificial intelligence (AI) in various sectors.
The Council serves as a platform for companies to come together, exchange experiences, and promote ethical practices within the AI industry. By working closely with UNESCO, it aims to ensure that AI is developed and utilized in a manner that respects human rights and upholds ethical standards.
Currently co-chaired by Microsoft and Telefonica, the Council is committed to strengthening technical capacities in ethics and AI, designing and implementing the Ethical Impact Assessment tool mandated by the Recommendation on the Ethics of AI, and contributing to the development of intelligent regional regulations. Through these efforts, it strives to create a competitive environment that benefits all stakeholders in Latin America and promotes the responsible and ethical use of AI.
Ideas, news & stories Events OLD Things you need to know about AI AI has proven its value in confronting the COVID-19 pandemic It contributes to slowing down the economic impact of the crisis through digital platforms. It also helps researchers crunch huge amounts of data in the race to find a vaccine or treatment. AI has participated to contain the spread of the virus through test, track and trace technologies. Yet, as people are giving access to their data, the use of AI during this pandemic has reopened concerns regarding privacy, data protection and the use of data beyond the needs of virus-tracking.
AI-driven growth is likely to be highly unequal AI is expected to generate nearly US$ 4 trillion in added value by 2022. By 2030, economic gains are expected to be strongest in China and North America, representing 70 % of AI’s global economic impact. AI has a “winner takes it all” dynamic that needs to be regulated: concentration of AI in the hands of few high-income countries will likely leave developing countries far behind. The latter will not benefit or very little from AI technologies and will lack ownership of such technologies.
Examples of ethical dilemmas Examples of gender bias in artificial intelligence, originating from stereotypical representations deeply rooted in our societies.
The use of AI in judicial systems around the world is increasing, creating more ethical questions to explore.
The use of AI in culture raises interesting ethical reflections. For instance, what happens when AI has the capacity to create works of art itself? An autonomous car is a vehicle that is capable of sensing its environment and moving with little or no human involvement.
Discover our resources More ...
See more UNESCO publications related to artificial intelligence Learn more about the elaboration of the Recommendation OLD How to build the rule of law in the digital world? In this video, Gabriela Ramos, Assistant Director-General for Social and Human Sciences for UNESCO, explains how new technologies transform the world and our daily lives, in previously unimaginable ways. The global pandemic has further accelerated the application of AI technology: from tracking and tracing apps to digital platforms to ensure the continuity of teaching and learning for millions of students. To what extent can AI be trusted? Who must be held responsible if an algorithm discriminates or shows bias? How can we ensure that the economic benefits of AI are justly distributed, rather than amplifying the growing social inequality? UNESCO is at the forefront of the largest dialogue between governments, civil society, and the private sector to build a solid base for the rule of law in the digital world.
OLD Evolution of the Recommendation OLD Intergovernmental Process and Negotiations The preliminary report and the first draft of the Recommendation were transmitted to Member States in September 2020, for their written comments by 31 December 2020. These written comments were taken into consideration by the Director-General when preparing her final report on the Recommendation.
The final report containing a draft text for the Recommendation was communicated to Member States and submitted to a Special committee of governmental experts (Category II). The special committee meeting was held in two phases, the first from 26 to 30 April 2021 and the second from 21 to 25 June 2021. Intersessional consultations were also organized in the period from 1 to 18 June 2021 (12 days).
After months of constructive dialogue and negotiation, representatives from UNESCO’s member states have agreed on the draft text of an ambitious and wide-ranging new template for the ethical development and deployment of Artificial Intelligence.
Read the draft text , also available in French More information on the Intergovernmental Negotiations Related items Social and human sciences Natural sciences Culture Artificial intelligence Norms ＆ Standards Policy Advice UN ＆ International cooperation High technology Information technology Information technology (hardware) Information technology (software) Technology Computer science Ethics of science Science Science and development Science and society Science policy Social science policy Social sciences Ethics of artificial intelligence Ethics Ethics of technology See more add UNESCO Latest News Take Action Ideas & Data Our Impact Our expertise Core Data Portal Subscribe to our Newsletter Terms of use UNESCO Name & Logo FAQ Report fraud, abuse, misconduct Scam alert Policies Protection of human rights (Procedure 104) Privacy Notice Access to Information Environmental and Social Policies Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Explore UNESCO top
