old id = 2419
Carrying the weak force: Thirty years of the W boson | CERN
2023
https://home.cern/news/news/physics/carrying-weak-force-thirty-years-w-boson

CERN Accelerating science Sign in Directory Toggle navigation About CERN At CERN, we probe the fundamental structure of particles that make up everything around us. We do so using the world's largest and most complex scientific instruments.
Know more Who we are Our Mission Our Governance Our Member States Our History Our People What we do Fundamental research Contribute to society Environmentally responsible research Bring nations together Inspire and educate Fast facts and FAQs Key Achievements Key achievements submenu The Higgs Boson The W boson The Z boson The Large Hadron Collider The Birth of the web Antimatter News Featured news, updates, stories, opinions, announcements CERN and Pro Helvetia announce selected artis...
At CERN News 11 October, 2023 CERN inaugurates Science Gateway, its new out...
At CERN News 7 October, 2023 The LHC lead-ion collision run starts Experiments News 28 September, 2023 ALPHA experiment at CERN observes the influen...
Physics News 27 September, 2023 Latest news News Accelerators At CERN Computing Engineering Experiments Knowledge sharing Physics Events Webcasts CERN Community News and announcements Official communications Events Scientists News Events Press Room Press Room submenu Media News Resources Contact Science Science Rack of servers in the CERN Data Centre (Image: CERN) The research programme at CERN covers topics from kaons to cosmic rays, and from the Standard Model to supersymmetry Know more Physics Antimatter Dark matter The early universe The Higgs boson The Standard Model + More Accelerators CERN's accelerators The Antiproton Decelerator The Large Hadron Collider High-Luminosity LHC + More Engineering Accelerating: radiofrequency cavities Steering and focusing: magnets and superconductivity Circulating: ultra-high vacuum Cooling: cryogenic systems Powering: energy at CERN + More Computing The CERN Data Centre The Worldwide LHC Computing Grid CERN openlab Open source for open science The birth of the web + More Experiments ALICE ATLAS CMS LHCb + More Resources Featured resources CERN Courier Sep/Oct 2023 Courier Physics 5 September, 2023 High-Luminosity LHC images Image Accelerators 20 June, 2018 LHC Facts and Figures Brochure Knowledge sharing 10 May, 2022 See all resources By Topic Accelerators At CERN Computing Engineering Experiments Knowledge sharing Physics By format 360 image Annual report Brochure Bulletin Courier Image Video + More By audience CERN community Educators General public Industry Media Scientists Students + More search E.G. BIRTH OF WEB, LHC PAGE 1, BULLETIN...
E.G. BIRTH OF WEB, LHC...
Search Search | en en fr Voir en Carrying the weak force: Thirty years of the W boson On 25 January 1983, CERN physicists announced to the world the discovery of the W boson, an elementary particle that carries the weak force 25 January, 2013 | By Cian O'Luanaigh On 25 January 1983 CERN announced the discovery of the W boson. Left to right: Carlo Rubbia, Simon van der Meer, Herwig Schopper, Erwin Gabathuler, Pierre Darriulat (Image: CERN) 30 years ago today, CERN physicists announced to the world the discovery of the W boson.
The electrically charged boson is an elementary particle that carries the weak force, one of four fundamental forces in physics. The discovery came after just three years of research with CERN's Super Proton Synchrotron (SPS) – a machine originally designed to accelerate beams of protons – running as the world's first proton-antiproton collider.
In 1976 physicists Carlo Rubbia, Peter McIntyre and David Cline suggested modifying the SPS, CERN's largest accelerator at the time, from a one-beam accelerator into a two-beam collider. The machine would collide a beam of protons with a beam of antiprotons, greatly increasing the available energy compared to a single beam colliding against a fixed target. The aim was to reach energies high enough to produce W particles, and related Z particles.
Simon van der Meer at CERN had already invented a way of producing and storing dense beams of protons or antiprotons, but converting the SPS into a collider was still a bold move.
Two moveable detectors, UA1 and UA2 , were custom built around the SPS beam pipe to search proton-antiproton collisions for signatures of the W particle. They started taking collision data in 1981.
The first W candidate was found in November 1982 and reported at a proton-antiproton workshop in Rome, Italy, 12-14 January 1983. In a seminar on 20 January 1983, Carlo Rubbia announced six candidate W events for UA1 (See video below). Luigi Di Lella announced four candidate events for UA2 to a packed CERN auditorium the following afternoon. On 25 January, CERN shared news of the discovery with the world.
In a seminar on 20 January 1983, CERN physicist Carlo Rubbia announces six candidate W events for the UA1 experiment (Video: CERN/BBC ) The discovery was so important that the two key scientists behind it received the Nobel prize in physics only a year later. Carlo Rubbia, instigator of the accelerator’s conversion and spokesperson of the UA1 experiment, shared the prize with Simon van der Meer, whose technology was vital to the collider’s operation.
The discovery of the W boson further validated the electroweak theory. It also helped to secure the decision to build CERN’s next big accelerator, the Large Electron Positron Collider , whose job was to mass-produce W and Z bosons for further studies.
Find out more about the history of the discovery by watching a BBC documentary about the W boson search from the time of the announcement.
Related Articles Improved ATLAS result weighs in on W boson W boson turns 40 ATLAS measures joint polarisation of carriers...
Also On Physics ATLAS and CMS unite to weigh in on the top qu...
Physics News 11 October, 2023 In search of supersymmetric dark matter Physics News 9 October, 2023 ALPHA experiment at CERN observes the influen...
Physics News 27 September, 2023 ATLAS measures strength of the strong force w...
Physics News 25 September, 2023 Quest for the curious magnetic monopole conti...
Physics News 15 September, 2023 ALICE reports new charmonia measurements in L...
Physics News 15 September, 2023 The joy of summer conferences Physics Opinion Joachim Mnich 31 August, 2023 LHCb observes hypertriton production in proto...
Physics News 23 August, 2023 Looking for sterile neutrinos in the CMS muon...
Physics News 28 July, 2023 Follow Us v J W M 1 Find us Contact us Getting here CERN Esplanade des Particules 1 P.O. Box 1211 Geneva 23 Switzerland CERN & You Doing business with CERN Knowledge transfer CERN's neighbours CERN & Society Foundation Partnerships Alumni General Information Careers Visits Privacy policy Cookies Consent Management
