old id = 2423
Quanta Magazine
2023
https://www.quantamagazine.org/tag/machine-learning

Physics Mathematics Biology Computer Science Topics Archive Saved articles Login Search What's up in machine learning Latest Articles The Computing Pioneer Helping AI See Susan D'Agostino Read Later Alexei Efros has spent his career learning how machines see differently from humans. Now he’s helping to bridge the gap.
Tiny Language Models Come of Age Ben Brubaker Read Later To better understand how neural networks learn to simulate writing, researchers trained simpler versions on synthetic children’s stories.
The Physical Process That Powers a New Type of Generative AI Steve Nadis Read Later Some modern image generators rely on the principles of diffusion to create images. Alternatives based on the process behind the distribution of charged particles may yield even better results.
Machine Learning Aids Classical Modeling of Quantum Systems Lakshmi Chandrasekaran Read Later By using “classical shadows,” ordinary computers can beat quantum computers at the tricky task of understanding quantum behaviors.
Why Mathematical Proof Is a Social Compact Jordana Cepelewicz Read Later Number theorist Andrew Granville on what mathematics really is — and why objectivity is never quite within reach.
The AI Tools Making Images Look Better Amos Zeeberg Read Later Researchers have discovered ways around a fundamental trade-off between accuracy and beauty in digital images.
Risky Giant Steps Can Solve Optimization Problems Faster Allison Parshall Read Later New results break with decades of conventional wisdom for the gradient descent algorithm.
Neural Networks Need Data to Learn. Even If It’s Fake.
Amos Zeeberg Read Later Real data can be hard to get, so researchers are turning to synthetic data to train their artificial intelligence systems.
Sparse Networks Come to the Aid of Big Physics Steve Nadis Read Later A novel type of neural network is helping physicists with the daunting challenge of data analysis.
Previous 1 2 3 4...
12 Next Follow Quanta Past Month Most Read Articles Get highlights of the most important news delivered to your email inbox Recent newsletters About Quanta Archive Contact Us Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy "byline\"> Quanta Magazine moderates comments to facilitate an informed, substantive, civil conversation. Abusive, profane, self-promotional, misleading, incoherent or off-topic comments will be rejected. Moderators are staffed during regular business hours (New York time) and can only accept comments written in English.
