old id = 2424
Quanta Magazine
2023
https://www.quantamagazine.org/tag/quantum-physics

Physics Mathematics Biology Computer Science Topics Archive Saved articles Login Search What's up in quantum physics Latest Articles The Quest to Quantify Quantumness Charlie Wood Read Later What makes a quantum computer more powerful than a classical computer? It’s a surprisingly subtle question that physicists are still grappling with, decades into the quantum age.
Nobel Prize Honors Inventors of ‘Quantum Dot’ Nanoparticles Yasemin Saplakoglu Read Later The Nobel Prize in Chemistry has been awarded to three researchers who harnessed the quantum behaviors of semiconductor nanocrystals.
Physicists Who Explored Tiny Glimpses of Time Win Nobel Prize Charlie Wood Read Later The development of attosecond pulses of light allowed researchers to explore the frame-by-frame movement of electrons.
Machine Learning Aids Classical Modeling of Quantum Systems Lakshmi Chandrasekaran Read Later By using “classical shadows,” ordinary computers can beat quantum computers at the tricky task of understanding quantum behaviors.
Physicists Observe ‘Unobservable’ Quantum Phase Transition Charlie Wood Read Later Measurement and entanglement both have a “spooky” nonlocal flavor to them. Now physicists are harnessing that nonlocality to probe the spread of quantum information and control it.
New Codes Could Make Quantum Computing 10 Times More Efficient Charlie Wood Read Later Quantum computing is still really, really hard. But the rise of a powerful class of error-correcting codes suggests that the task might be slightly more feasible than many feared.
Does Nothingness Exist? Steven Strogatz Read Later Even empty space bubbles with energy, according to quantum mechanics — and that fact affects almost every facet of physical reality. The theoretical physicist Isabel Garcia Garcia explains to Steven Strogatz why it’s so important in modern physics to understand what a true vacuum is.
How Quantum Physicists Explained Earth's Weather Patterns Katie McCormick Read Later By treating Earth as a topological insulator — a state of quantum matter — physicists found a powerful explanation for the movements of the planet’s air and seas.
The Physicist Who’s Challenging the Quantum Orthodoxy Thomas Lewton Read Later For decades, physicists have struggled to develop a quantum theory of gravity. But what if gravity — and space-time — are fundamentally classical? Previous 1 2 3 4...
16 Next Follow Quanta Past Month Most Read Articles Get highlights of the most important news delivered to your email inbox Recent newsletters About Quanta Archive Contact Us Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy "byline\"> Quanta Magazine moderates comments to facilitate an informed, substantive, civil conversation. Abusive, profane, self-promotional, misleading, incoherent or off-topic comments will be rejected. Moderators are staffed during regular business hours (New York time) and can only accept comments written in English.
