old id = 704
MIT News – MIT ICEO
2023
https://iceo.mit.edu/mit-news

Back Programs Dialogues Across Difference Employee Resource Groups African, Black, American, Caribbean (ABAC) ERG Asian Pacific American (APA) ERG Disabilities ERG Latino ERG Lesbian, Bisexual, Gay, Transgender Queer LBGTQ ERG Millennials ERG Women in Technology WIT ERG Funding MIT Values Statement MLK Programs MLK Programs Overview Annual MLK Celebration MLK Leadership Awards MLK Inspired Art & Performance Contest Initiatives Ad Hoc Committee on Arts, Culture, and DEI—pre implementation version Community Learning Free Expression Gender Identity Initiative Inclusive Restrooms Indigenous Working Group Racism Research Fund Strategic Action Plan Vice President for Equity and Inclusion Resources Awards and Recognition Committees Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data Land Acknowledgement Local Resources and Contacts MIT News NCFDD Membership Programs and Services Religious Holidays Reports About About the ICEO Outreach Letters to the MIT community Newsletter Staff Events Past Events Report an incident < Back HEADER - Programs Dialogues Across Difference Employee Resource Groups African, Black, American, Caribbean (ABAC) ERG Asian Pacific American (APA) ERG Disabilities ERG Latino ERG Lesbian, Bisexual, Gay, Transgender Queer (LBGTQ+) ERG Millennials ERG Women in Technology (WIT) ERG Funding MLK Programs MLK Visiting Professor Program Annual MLK Celebration MLK Leadership Awards MLK Inspired Art & Performance Contest MIT Values Initiatives Ad Hoc Committee on Arts, Culture, and DEI Community Learning Free Expression Gender Identity Initiative Inclusive Restrooms Indigenous Working Group Racism Research Fund Strategic Action Plan Vice President for Equity and Inclusion Resources Awards and Recognition Committees Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data Land Acknowledgement Local Resources and Contacts MIT News NCFDD Membership Programs and Services Religious Holidays Reports About About the ICEO Outreach ICEO Newsletter Letters to the MIT community Staff Events Past Events Upcoming Events MIT News Oct 26, 2023 Making genetic prediction models more inclusive MIT computer scientists developed a way to calculate polygenic scores that makes them more accurate for people across diverse ancestries.
Oct 25, 2023 Eight high school teams named Lemelson-MIT InvenTeams for 2023-24 In 20 years of uplifting young inventors, the program has enabled 17 InvenTeam projects to earn US patents.
Oct 20, 2023 Opening pathways for future supply chain leaders Maria Jesus Saenz of the MIT Center for Transportation and Logistics is dedicated to advancing future leaders, and to supporting women, in supply chain management.
Oct 20, 2023 Building on an enduring bond Tuskegee University and MIT deepen a connection that’s existed from the start.
Oct 05, 2023 MIT SHASS Diversity Predoctoral Fellowship Program welcomes 2023-24 class The fellowship program enhances diversity in SHASS and provides fellows with professional support and mentoring.
Sep 27, 2023 MIT welcomes nine MLK Visiting Professors and Scholars for 2023-24 Martin Luther King Jr. Visiting Professors and Scholars will enhance and enrich the MIT community through engagement with students and faculty.
Sep 22, 2023 On the hunt for sustainable materials PhD student Avni Singhal uses computational tools to help design new materials that address environmental challenges.
Sep 20, 2023 Bringing design justice to the classroom and workplace Project shares ways to create community around design equity, ethics, and justice.
Sep 12, 2023 Empowering the next generation of philosophers through diversity and inclusion Held annually at MIT, the PIKSI-Boston program brings together students from groups underrepresented in the field of philosophy.
Sep 05, 2023 Elsa Olivetti appointed associate dean of engineering Materials science and engineering faculty member will oversee key programs and initiatives across the MIT School of Engineering.
Sep 01, 2023 Fast-tracking fusion energy’s arrival with AI and accessibility MIT Plasma Science and Fusion Center will receive DoE support to improve access to fusion data and increase workforce diversity.
Aug 31, 2023 Kimberly Rose Bennett awarded HHMI Gilliam Fellowship Howard Hughes Medical Institute Gilliam Fellows are selected for their promise as future leaders in their scientific fields and for their commitment to advancing equity and inclusion.
Aug 29, 2023 Incoming MIT students surprise President Kornbluth with “Barbis” installation For Interphase EDGE/x participants, a life-sized Barbie-themed TARDIS prompts reflections on social norms.
Aug 25, 2023 Denzil Streete named senior associate dean and director of the Office of Graduate Education “Natural collaborator and advocate for students” will oversee the educational experience of the Institute’s 7,000 graduate students.
Aug 16, 2023 Summer research offers a springboard to advanced studies Three graduate students forged a path to the same Picower Institute lab through participating in the MIT Summer Research Program in Biology and Neuroscience.
Aug 15, 2023 3 Questions: Noah Nathan and Ariel White on Global Diversity Lab summer internships The first cohort of interns reflects a range of political science talent and potential.
Aug 14, 2023 A new way to evaluate the impact of medical research Evaluating articles and journals using a new “diversity index” could promote a wider range of perspectives and better global health outcomes, researchers say.
Aug 09, 2023 Freeman Hrabowski encourages students to “hold fast to dreams” and take time for laughter In a visit to MIT, the educator and author led a lively and inspiring Q&A with students.
Aug 01, 2023 Leading business past dollars and cents Annabel Flores ’99, MBA ’03, SM ’03, a Raytheon executive, is an example of what happens when business and personal goals meet to reach people — not just the bottom line.
Jul 20, 2023 MIT Libraries staff honored with 2023 Infinite Mile Awards Twenty staffers recognized for providing valuable service to the MIT community, strengthening organizational culture, and uplifting their colleagues.
Jul 17, 2023 Understanding viral justice Author and African American studies scholar Ruha Benjamin urges MIT Libraries staff to “re-imagine the default settings” of technology for a more just future.
Jul 14, 2023 On a mission to uplift others and save the endangered Marma language For Rani Ukhengching Marma from Bangladesh, protecting the Indigenous language also means preserving her culture, traditional knowledge, and generational wisdom.
Jul 10, 2023 Tiera Fletcher ’17: Finding the purpose that propels us The aerospace engineer, mentor, and author talks motivation and representation with MIT Libraries staff.
Jun 29, 2023 Studies at the intersection of equity, computing, and education “The work I’m doing is deeply rooted in the belief that you can plant seeds in people,” says graduate student Cecilé Sadler.
Jun 27, 2023 Exploring the unexpected social questions behind everyday medical devices An MIT anthropology course encourages students to envision more equitable device design.
Jun 22, 2023 MIT PhD student enhances STEM education in underrepresented communities in Puerto Rico Through her organization, Sprouting, Taylor Baum is empowering teachers to teach coding and computer science in their classrooms and communities.
Jun 21, 2023 Charlie Farquhar: Forger of chemical and social bonds While developing targeted drug-delivery methods, the PhD student advocates for inclusion, belonging, and collaboration.
Jun 14, 2023 Finding the heat Poet Joshua Bennett invites MIT students to gather around Black American poetry.
Jun 12, 2023 MIT PKG IDEAS Social Innovation Challenge grants more than $60,000 to student-led teams to address pressing societal issues The Priscilla King Gray Public Service Center's IDEAS program empowers teams partnering with communities to tackle a range of social challenges.
Jun 09, 2023 Inaugural symposium draws diverse science, underrepresented voices to MIT Catalyst Symposium is part of an effort to bring outstanding postdocs from underrepresented backgrounds in science to engage with MIT community members.
Jun 06, 2023 Evolution through example and action Forty-one women were selected as 2023 MIT Graduate Women of Excellence, organized by the MIT Office of Graduate Education.
May 31, 2023 Driven to driverless Cindy Alejandra Heredia’s journey from Laredo, Texas, took her to leading the MIT autonomous vehicle team and to an MBA from MIT Sloan.
May 19, 2023 First-of-its-kind Indigenous immersive incubator gathers on MIT campus Over the course of four days, Indigenous delegates collaborated on immersive technology with MIT community members.
May 11, 2023 Laying the foundation to diversify the economics field and center racial equity in economics research J-PAL North America is developing a strategic vision — informed by a new racial equity advisory committee — to advance inclusion, prioritize racial equity in research, and promote equitable and inclusive research practices in its network.
May 09, 2023 3 Questions: Per Urlaub on MIT Global Languages Urlaub discusses the growing popularity of language programs at the Institute.
May 09, 2023 Seychelle Vos and Hernandez Moura Silva named HHMI Freeman Hrabowski Scholars The program supports early-career faculty who have strong potential to become leaders in their fields and to advance diversity, equity, and inclusion.
May 08, 2023 MIT HUMANS project breaks down borders, empowering global voices to reach for the stars The HUMANS nanowafer, an MIT Space Exploration Initiative student-led project, will travel to the ISS this month, and later to the moon, carrying messages in more than 64 languages from over 80 countries.
May 01, 2023 The measuring tape heard round the world Professor Emerita Nancy Hopkins and journalist Kate Zernike discuss the past, present, and future of women at MIT and beyond.
Apr 13, 2023 “A family like no other” Now in its sixth year, The Standard provides the tools, support, and camaraderie for undergraduate men of color to thrive at MIT — and beyond.
Apr 12, 2023 Understanding our place in the universe Martin Luther King Jr. Scholar Brian Nord trains machines to explore the cosmos and fights for equity in research.
Mar 27, 2023 A portfolio that’s out of this world Following an influential career at NASA, Ezinne Uzo-Okoro SM ’20, PhD ’22 now shapes space policy as a top White House advisor.
Mar 24, 2023 MIT inaugurates “Dialogues Across Difference” series Featuring philosopher John Tomasi, a lecture and conversation event launches a set of community gatherings.
Mar 23, 2023 New African and African diaspora studies major takes off at MIT The major invites students to explore the riches of culture, innovation, thought leadership, and beauty that originate in the continent of Africa and its many diasporas.
Mar 15, 2023 3 Questions: John Dozier on Dialogues Across Difference A new campus series intends to inspire conversation about building community across the Institute.
Mar 09, 2023 Pilot, engineer, neuroscientist, bridge-builder How Elissa Gibson ’22 connected the dots to form her own unique constellation of MIT experiences.
Mar 07, 2023 MIT Cheney Room reopens with fresh and enhanced programming Historically women-oriented space welcomes more community members, focusing on women and gender.
Mar 06, 2023 Daniel Hastings named American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics president-elect Head of MIT AeroAstro will assume the presidency in 2024 as the organization’s first Black president.
Mar 03, 2023 MIT Press announces inaugural recipients of the Grant Program for Diverse Voices The grants expand funding for authors whose work brings diverse and chronically underrepresented perspectives to scholarship in the arts, humanities, and sciences.
Mar 01, 2023 3 Questions: Daniel Auguste on why “successful entrepreneurs don’t fall from the sky” The MLK Visiting Professor studies the ways innovators are influenced by their communities.
Feb 26, 2023 Illuminating the successes and struggles of MIT Black history The MIT Black History Project is documenting 150+ years of the Black experience at the Institute and beyond.
Institute Community and Equity Office Massachusetts Institute of Technology 77 Massachusetts Avenue, 4-205 Cambridge MA 02139 Quick Links Diversity Dashboard Community Resources Action Plan Keep in touch +1 617-715-2066 iceo@mit.edu Have you experienced or witnessed discrimination or harassment at MIT? Report an incident
