old id = 748
WiML Social @ ICLR 2022
2023
https://wimlworkshop.org/sh_events/wiml-social-iclr-2022

Home Mission WiML Mission WiML Code of Conduct WiML Statements and Calls WiML Workshop About WiML Workshop WiML Workshop 2023 WiML Un-Workshop 2023 WiML Workshop 2022 WiML Un-Workshop 2022 WiML Workshop 2021 WiML Un-Workshop 2021 WiML Workshop 2020 WiML Un-Workshop 2020 WiML Workshop 2019 WiML Workshop 2018 WiML Workshop 2017 WiML Workshop 2016 WiML Workshop 2015 Events Projects Mentorship Program Profiles of Women in Machine Learning Directory of Women in Machine Learning Mailing List Resources FAQ Partners Directors Board of Directors Past Board of Directors Time Left WiML Social @ ICLR 2022 Virtual April 25, 2022 — April 25, 2022 07:00 pm — 09:00 pm A one hour Virtual Panel session ( 45 min + 15 min Q&A from the audience ) which will take place on April 25th, 19:00-20:00 GMT.
The topic of the panel will be the interplay of academia and geographic location.
During the Virtual Panel we hope to encourage discussions about geographically specific challenges experienced in academia.
To apply for registration funding go to: https://forms.gle/A6zyMdXt21kHQZNSA Moderated by Dr. Caroline Weis Panelists Include: Akiko Eriguchi, Senior Researcher, Microsoft.
Akiko is a Senior Researcher at Microsoft. Her research interests lie in multilingual NLP and deep learning. With her position in the Microsoft Translator team, she has developed MT systems and multilingual NLP applications. Her work has been published in ACL, EMNLP, etc. She has served as a reviewer for ACL, EMNLP, NeurIPS, AAAI. She is also a 2021-2022 co-organizer of the Workshop on Asian Translation.
Prior to joining Microsoft, she was a Research Fellow (DC1) at the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science. She obtained her doctoral degree from the University of Tokyo, Japan, where her PhD thesis received the sixth AAMT Nagao Student award from the Asia-Pacific Association for Machine Translation.
Nora Hollenstein, Assistant Professor, University of Copenhagen.
Nora is an assistant professor in NLP & Cognitive Science at the University of Copenhagen. Before joining the Center for Language Technology at the University of Copenhagen, Nora was a PhD candidate at DS3Lab at ETH Zurich working on cognitively inspired natural language processing. She was also a lecturer at the Institute of Computational Linguistics of the University of Zurich.
The focus of her research lies in enhancing NLP applications with cognitive data such as eye-tracking and brain activity recordings. She is especially interested in multi-modal learning, learning from limited data, and the interpretability and cognitive plausibility of machine learning models.
Jessica Schrouff, Senior Research Scientist, Google Research.
Jessica i s a Senior Research Scientist at Google Research working on machine learning for healthcare. Before joining Google in 2019, she was a Marie Curie post-doctoral fellow at University College London (UK) and Stanford University (USA), developing machine learning techniques for neuroscience discovery and clinical predictions.
Throughout her career, Jessica’s interests have lied not only in the technical advancement of machine learning methods, but also in critical aspects of their deployment such as their credibility, fairness, robustness or interpretability.
WiML We organize events and run programs to support women in the field of machine learning.
WiML Code of Conduct: https://wimlworkshop.org/conduct/ Contact Info Job posting, announcement, CFP, etc: Post directly to WiML mailing list https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/women-in-machine-learning Workshop enquiries: workshop@wimlworkshop.org If you are a company interested in sponsoring WiML: sponsorship@wimlworkshop.org Any other enquiries: info@wimlworkshop.org Copyright © Women in Machine Learning
