old id = 778
OII | Press Coverage
2023
https://www.oii.ox.ac.uk/news-events/coverage

Research Research Section Home Research Areas Digital Economies Digital Knowledge and Culture Digital Politics and Government Education, Digital Life and Wellbeing Ethics and Philosophy of Information Information Geography and Inequality Information Governance and Security Social Data Science Publications Projects Research Microsites Visitor Programme Study Study Section Home Our Programmes MSc in Social Data Science MSc in Social Science of the Internet DPhil in Social Data Science DPhil in Information, Communication and the Social Sciences Recognised Student Programme Study FAQs Open Days Summer Doctoral Programme SDP Tutors SDP Alumni Gallery People People Section Home OII People Faculty & Research Fellows Research Staff Senior Fellows DPhil Students MSc Students Administration Research Associates Advisory Board Visitors Faculty Associates Former Members of the OII Vacancies Equality, Diversity & Inclusion News & Events News & Events Section Home News Latest Reports Press Coverage Upcoming Events Videos & Event Recordings Follow Us About About Section Home Our History Our Founding Donor Giving to the Oxford Internet Institute The Shirley Scholars Fund Executive Education Information for Alumni Find Us Library Research Research Research Areas Digital Economies Digital Knowledge and Culture Digital Politics and Government Education, Digital Life and Wellbeing Ethics and Philosophy of Information Information Geography and Inequality Information Governance and Security Social Data Science Publications Projects Research Microsites Visitor Programme Study Study Our Programmes MSc in Social Data Science MSc in Social Science of the Internet DPhil in Social Data Science DPhil in Information, Communication and the Social Sciences Recognised Student Programme Study FAQs Open Days Summer Doctoral Programme SDP Tutors SDP Alumni Gallery People People OII People Faculty & Research Fellows Research Staff Senior Fellows DPhil Students MSc Students Administration Research Associates Advisory Board Visitors Faculty Associates Former Members of the OII Vacancies Equality, Diversity & Inclusion News & Events News & Events News Latest Reports Press Coverage Upcoming Events Videos & Event Recordings Follow Us About About Our History Our Founding Donor Giving to the Oxford Internet Institute The Shirley Scholars Fund Executive Education Information for Alumni Find Us Library OII > News & Events > Press Coverage Sort by: Order: Keyword: 1 … These skills could earn you more money and help futureproof your career Yahoo Finance, 29 October 2023 Workers with AI skills earn up to 40% more than those without them, new research finds.
Sky News: Rishi Sunak’s Speech on AI Sky News, 26 October 2023 The Prime Minister has said he plans to tackle head on the threats coming from AI and keep the public safe as he gave a news conference this morning on the opportunities that may well come from artificial intelligence.
Has Rishi Sunak given AI tech firms a ‘free pass?’ Experts say industry needs regulation ‘immediately’ after PM said UK won’t ‘rush to regulate’ and we ‘shouldn’t lose sleep over it’ Daily Mail Online, 27 October 2023 Technology experts have today accused Rishi Sunak of giving AI firms a 'free pass' after announcing he won't 'rush to regulate' the industry as he seeks to turn the UK into a major artificial intelligence hub.
This new generation of artificial intelligence will not be an automated technology eldiario, 21 October 2023 The researcher, who a decade ago announced that 47% of jobs are at risk of automation, warns that tools such as ChatGPT will not be the ones to take center stage Artificial intelligence tools can now monitor and analyze physical performance at work Le Monde, 21 October 2023 Several studies highlight the consequences of the use of generative AI no longer on employment, but on human work itself, reports the sociologist in her column.
Amazon launches humanoid robots to do ‘mundane and repetitive’ tasks Daily Telegraph, 19 October 2023 Tech giant says machines will ‘work collaboratively’ with warehouse staff, not replace them.
Tech was supposed to take everyone’s job. We’re still working. What happened? Business Insider, 17 October 2023 Lots of people are worried AI is going to take a bunch of jobs. The fear that new tech will replace workers has been common throughout history. And yet here we all are, still with jobs to do.
Here’s the 6 personality traits you need to found a successful startup Yahoo!, 22 October 2023 Researchers used AI to determine the personality traits of 21,000 startup founders.
Britain’s Big AI Summit Is a Doom-Obsessed Mess Wired, 23 October 2023 UK prime minister Rishi Sunak’s global summit on AI governance will focus on extreme scenarios of algorithms causing harm. Many British AI experts would rather he focus on near-term problems.
Productivity Matters, But Not as a Political Football for Remote Work Bloomberg, 20 October 2023 A combination of technological and social changes at work have turbocharged the topic.
As misinformation surges during the Israel-Hamas war, where is AI? Poynter, 19 October 2023 Despite the panic about generative artificial intelligence, deepfakes have not been a major factor in the flood of falsehoods during the conflict.
Musk, Gates and Bezos — the perfect mix for startup success The Times, 19 October 2023 To found a successful startup, you could partner with an Elon Musk character — a natural engineer with imagination and intellect, albeit a little lacking in social skills. Or maybe recruit a Bill Gates type, a leader who is adventurous and persistent 1 … 1 St Giles, Oxford, OX1 3JS, UK +44 (0)1865 287210 General: enquiries@oii.ox.ac.uk Press: press@oii.ox.ac.uk FOLLOW US: INFORMATION FOR: Prospective students Alumni Job seekers Media Policy makers We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website.
You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings.
Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies Google Analytics Privacy Overview This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookies moove_gdrp_popup - a cookie that saves your preferences for cookie settings. Without this cookie, the screen offering you cookie options will appear on every page you visit.
This cookie remains on your computer for 365 days, but you can adjust your preferences at any time by clicking on the "Cookie settings" link in the website footer.
Please note that if you visit the Oxford University website, any cookies you accept there will appear on our site here too, this being a subdomain. To control them, you must change your cookie preferences on the main University website.
Enable or Disable Cookies Google Analytics This website uses Google Tags and Google Analytics to collect anonymised information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping these cookies enabled helps the OII improve our website.
Enabling this option will allow cookies from: Google Analytics - tracking visits to the ox.ac.uk and oii.ox.ac.uk domains These cookies will remain on your website for 365 days, but you can edit your cookie preferences at any time via the "Cookie Settings" button in the website footer.
Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! GDPR Cookie Compliance
