old id = 826
Site infrastructure
2023
https://www.iter.org/construction/siteinfrastructure

Jobs 7 Tenders 78 Faqs Visits Contact us ITER Directory Subscribe Donate.
gsc-placeholder-input{outline: none; background: url("http://www.google.com/cse/static/en/google_custom_search_watermark.gif") 0% 50% no-repeat rgb(255, 255, 255);padding: 1px 6px;border: 1px solid #DDD;width: 99%; font-size:13px;height: 30px;margin: 0px 5px;width: 100%!important;} .gsc-search-button{display:none} .gsc-control-cse{background-color:transparent; border-color:transparent} Subscribe options Select your newsletters: ITER Newsline Keep in touch with ITER through our main news feed, sent weekly.
ITER Magazine - French only Learn more about the ITER Project by subscribing to this quarterly online magazine that is geared toward the general public.
ITER Open Doors Day - Notifications Stay informed about the ITER Open Doors sessions and be among the first to subscribe to the next event.
Please enter your email address: @ Your email address will only be used for the purpose of sending you the ITER Organization publication(s) that you have requested.
ITER Organization will not transfer your email address or other personal data to any other party or use it for commercial purposes.
If you change your mind, you can easily unsubscribe by clicking the unsubscribe option at the bottom of an email you've received from ITER Organization.
For more information, see our Privacy policy.
') < 0){ $(this).remove(); } }) $("div.sub").each(function(){ $(this).appendTo("#menu-content"); if ($(this).find('li.active').length > 0){ var activeSubMenu = $(this).index() + 1; $("li.menu-cat[data-id='" + activeSubMenu + "']").addClass('active'); } else if( $(document).find('div#menu h2 a.active').length > 0 ) { } }) var activeIndex = $('li.menu-cat.active').index(); if(activeIndex >= 0){ $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == activeIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); } //hide menu on overlay click $('div.black-overlay').click(function(){ $('li.menu-cat.selected').trigger( "click" ); }); function menuBehaviour() { var isiPhone = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("iphone"); var isiPad = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("ipad"); var isiPod = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("ipod"); var isAndroid = /android/i.test(navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase()); var isBlackberry = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("BlackBerry"); var isOpera = /Opera/i.test(navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase()); var isIE = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("IEMobile"); //for Tablet if(isiPhone > -1 || isiPad > -1 || isiPod > -1 || isAndroid || isBlackberry > -1 || isOpera || isIE > 1){ $('li.menu-cat span.glyphicon').click(function(event) { //remove href link event.preventDefault(); currentMenu = $(this).parent().parent().parent(); setMenuTimeoutConst = setTimeout( function() { MenuToggle( $(currentMenu) ); setMenuTimeoutConst = null; }, 500 ); }); }else{ $('li.menu-cat').on( 'mouseenter', function() { currentMenu = $(this); setMenuTimeoutConst = setTimeout( function() { MenuToggle( $(currentMenu) ); setMenuTimeoutConst = null; }, 500 ); }); } } menuBehaviour(); $('li.menu-cat').on( 'mouseleave', function() { clearTimeout( setMenuTimeoutConst ); currentMenu = null; }); $('ul.general-menu').on( 'mouseleave', function() { closeMenuTimeout = setTimeout( closeMenu, 100 ); }); $('div#menu-content').on( 'mouseleave', function() { closeMenuTimeout = setTimeout( closeMenu, 100 ); }); $('ul.general-menu').on( 'mouseenter', function() { clearTimeout( closeMenuTimeout ); }); $('div#menu-content').on( 'mouseenter', function() { clearTimeout( closeMenuTimeout ); }); }); function closeMenu() { MenuToggle( $('.menu-cat.selected') ); clearTimeout( timeoutBlackOverlay ); $("div.black-overlay").hide(); clearTimeout( setMenuTimeoutConst ); } function MenuToggle( obj ) { currentMenu = obj; var id = $(obj).data('id'); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).find('div.column-select').css({'opacity':'0'}); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).removeClass('last'); if (id != $(this).data('id')){ $(this).removeClass('selected'); $(this).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-up').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-down'); $("div.sub.selected").addClass('last'); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).hide().removeClass('selected'); } }) if($(obj).hasClass('active')){ $("div.submenu-content-" + $(obj).data('id')).addClass('active'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); } if ($(obj).hasClass('selected')){ $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 0}); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).slideToggle().removeClass('selected'); $("div.sub").removeClass('last'); $("div.black-overlay").fadeTo(200, 0); setTimeout( function() { $("div.black-overlay").hide(); }, 200 ); $(obj).removeClass('selected'); $(obj).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-up').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-down'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); if (!$(obj).hasClass('active')){ $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').removeAttr('style'); } }); } } else { //check last selected height var lastSize = $('div.sub.last').height(); // if last has height if (lastSize > 0 ){ var currentHeight = $("div.submenu-content-" + id).height(); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).height(lastSize) $("div.submenu-content-" + id).show().animate({height : currentHeight + 30 + 'px'}); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 1}); } //else we toggle the menu else{ $("div.submenu-content-" + id).slideToggle(); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 1}); } timeoutBlackOverlay = setTimeout( function() { $("div.black-overlay").show().fadeTo(200, 0.6); }, 200 ); $(obj).addClass('selected'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); $(obj).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-down').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-up'); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(obj).data('id')).addClass('selected'); } } About About An introduction to the project's goals, history, organization, location...
In a few lines What is ITER? What will ITER do? What is Fusion? What is a Tokamak? Who is participating in ITER? When will experiments begin? History IAEA ITER Newsletter The ITER Organization ITER Members Governance Iter in France Faqs Project Milestones Legal resources Status of the Organization Independence ITER Organization-Host State Settlement of disputes Rules and regulations Use of the ITER Logo Legal Affairs mandate Visits Machine Machine One million components, ten million parts — find out more about the ITER Tokamak and its systems.
What is a TOKAMAK? The ITER TOKAMAK Magnets Vacuum Vessel Blanket Divertor Cryostat Supporting Systems Vacuum Cryogenics CODAC Remote Handling Power Supply Fuel Cycle Hot Cell Cooling Water Tritium Breeding Diagnostics External Heating Manufacturing Safety and Environment Science Science Bringing a star to Earth? Explore the science of ITER.
What is fusion? Making it work Fusion fuels Plasma heating Plasma confinement Iter goals Advantages of Fusion 60 years of progress Int'l Tokamak research After Iter Fusion Glossary Construction Construction Follow the construction of the world's largest tokamak in southern France.
Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR Assembly Assembly Assembly Overview Specialized tooling Tokamak Assembly Metrology Plant assembly Commissioning News & Media News & Media The latest photos, videos and publications from the ITER Organization.
All News Photos News in French 3D Virtual Tour ITER Newsline Videos Events ITER Podcast Press Releases Publication Centre ITER Mag archives Top Tenders ITER Directory Donate About About In a few lines In a few lines What is ITER? What will ITER do? What is Fusion? What is a Tokamak? Who is participating in ITER? When will experiments begin? History History IAEA ITER Newsletter Faqs Project Milestones The ITER Organization ITER Members Governance Iter in France Legal resources Legal resources Status of the Organization Independence ITER Organization-Host State Settlement of disputes Rules and regulations Use of the ITER Logo Legal Affairs mandate Visits Machine Machine What is a TOKAMAK? The ITER TOKAMAK The ITER TOKAMAK Magnets Vacuum Vessel Blanket Divertor Cryostat Supporting Systems Supporting Systems Vacuum Cryogenics CODAC Remote Handling Power Supply Fuel Cycle Hot Cell Cooling Water Tritium Breeding Diagnostics External Heating Manufacturing Safety and Environment Science Science What is fusion? Making it work Making it work Fusion fuels Plasma heating Plasma confinement Advantages of Fusion 60 years of progress Iter goals Int'l Tokamak research After Iter Fusion Glossary Construction Construction Projects underway Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR Assembly Assembly Assembly Overview Tokamak Assembly Plant assembly Specialized tooling Metrology Commissioning News & Media News & Media All News Photos News in French 3D Virtual Tour ITER Newsline Videos Events Press Releases Publication Centre ITER Mag archives ITER Podcast Toggle navigation Toggle navigation Francais English Jobs Tenders Faqs Contact us directory Subscribe Donate Intranet Donate...
Construction Projects underway Site infrastructure New buildings emerge The concrete facade of the Tokamak Complex is now obscured by the High Voltage Building for neutral beam power supply (black, centre). Other fast-evolving features on the platform include the structure of a new bridge for the transfer of electrical power to the magnets (right) and the low-voltage Neutral Beam Power Supply Building (left).
29 August 2023 Download New bridges In addition to the cryobridge (foreground, for the distribution of cryogenic lines) there are now two other bridges spanning the main boulevard of the platform They are busbar bridges, for the transport of electrical busbars from the Magnet Power Conversion buildings to the Tokamak Complex.
29 August 2023 Download Inside the cryobridge In order to connect the cryolines coming from the cryoplant to those already installed in the Tokamak Building, the cryobridge runs for 130 metres, first crossing the boulevard and then making a sharp left turn to run along the Assembly Hall. This employee is inside the cryobridge, walking towards the cryoplant.
29 August 2023 Download Late August Despite the heat waves of July and August, progress made over the summer is observable in every corner of the ITER platform. The last major addition to the construction platform will be the Hot Cell Facility, a large building will go up where the two cranes are standing, at left.
29 August 2023 Download Overhead The completed cryobridge is 13 metres above the platform. Two other bridges along this road will house electrical busbars (one can be seen in construction in the background).
20 June 2023 Download Sturdy yet flexible Cryogenic process lines will be sheltered in this cryobridge, designed to withstand 200 tonnes of dead load and the "pushing and pulling" of the lines.
04 May 2023 Download Bridge with an angle A covered bridge runs 70 metres from the cryoplant to the Assembly Hall, before abruptly turning left at a 90-degree angle to run parallel to the Assembly Hall for another 60 metres in order to reach the Tokamak Complex. Its purpose? To carry gas and liquid helium to "clients" (superconducting magnets, thermal shield, cryopumps).
04 May 2023 Download Welcoming visitors on site The ITER Visitors Centre dominates the work site, and is a good place to start for visitors. (Pictured, a member of the French science association "Les Petits Débrouillards" ("Little Crafty Ones") during a display of magnetism at ITER's Open Doors Day event on 1 April.) 01 April 2023 Download The Visitors Centre Inside the Visitors Centre there are lots of ways to learn more about ITER--films, posters, mockups ... and of course the explanations of volunteer guides! 01 April 2023 Download From above The ITER site seen from above in March 2023.
17 March 2023 Download From the east The ITER site seen from the east in March 2023.
17 March 2023 Download New building emerging Against the concrete structure of the Tokamak Complex, the frame of a new building is emerging: the tall High Voltage Building that will house the high voltage equipment for neutral beam injection. See more information at: https://www.iter.org/construction/NeutralBeamPower.
29 November 2022 Download Late 2022 The ITER construction site, in late November 2022.
22 November 2022 Download Laboratory facility, open since January 2022 Facility Management Officer Guillaume Roux was involved in every stage of development of this new 740m² laboratory facility on site, which will be used both by the vacuum and tritium teams.
15 October 2022 Download Three in a row Three bridges will cross over this major artery of the ITER worksite: the cryobridge (in construction, pictured) and two bridges from the Magnet Power Conversion buildings (background, with the black boxes as starting points).
04 October 2022 Download Right angle To reach and enter the opening in the concrete wall of the Tokamak Complex, the cryobridge has to make a 90-degree turn. This has added complexity to the design of the structure, as the pressurized flow of cryogenic fluids at this location will cause intense traction forces.
30 August 2022 Download First bridge on site Three bridges will cross this major artery on the ITER platform. The first, connecting the cryoplant to the Tokamak Complex, is under construction now.
30 August 2022 Download Touring operational units The compressed air and demineralized water units of the Site Services Building are in operation. Commissioning Coordinator Adrien Deydier is seen here giving a facility tour to management.
06 July 2022 Download June view From the roof of ITER Headquarters, the Tokamak Complex stands out as the major feature of the ITER construction site. After a pause while European construction teams concentrated on delivering the Tokamak Building crane gallery (centre), work is proceeding at level L4 of the Tritium Building (located to the left of the Tokamak Building). On the right side of the Complex, behind the red crane, infrastructure for neutral beam power supply is emerging.
08 June 2022 Download Neutral beam heating power supply: buildings rising From the roof of the Diagnostics Building, we are looking directly down at the site of the future ITER Neutral Beam Power Supply buildings, currently under construction by European Domestic Agency (Fusion for Energy) contractors.
25 April 2022 Download Roads finalized This paved road running to the east of the Tokamak Complex is one of the last to be realized under Fusion for Energy's TB16 contract, which covered the realization of service trenches, precipitation drainage, and site adaptation works such as roads and lighting.
25 April 2022 Download Coming out of the ground: Neutral Beam Power Supply buildings Not often seen from above: the neutral beam power supply buildings, which are under construction next to the Tokamak Complex. Work on the foundations is advancing well.
21 February 2022 Download New laboratory building on site This 700 m² facility will be equipped for vacuum and tritium laboratory activities, including the assembly and testing of delivered components, performance trials, welding and grinding and maintenance. It was erected in just one year.
03 January 2022 Download Control Building: 24-hour presence The Control Building, going up now on the ITER site, will be the daily work environment for the operators, researchers, and engineers running ITER physics experiments or the routine 24-hour operation and control functions of the machine and plant.
08 December 2021 Download Neutral beam power supplies In front of the Diagnostics Building, construction is underway on two new buildings dedicated to the power supplies for the neutral beam injection system.
25 October 2021 Download Neutral beam power supply In front of the Tokamak Complex, work is underway on two buildings that will host the ITER neutral beam power supply installation and its array of transformers, generators, rectifiers, inverters and other exotic electrical devices designed to feed 1 MeV ultra high voltage to the injectors—something that is ''outside and beyond anything that's ever been done in terms of electrical engineering.'' 05 May 2021 Download Starting on the Control Building Work has started on the site of the ITER Control Building. A tunnel (and bridge) connect the ITER Control Building with Headquarters.
30 April 2021 Download New construction zone for neutral beam power Between the Tokamak Complex and ITER Headquarters, a new construction project is underway. Two buildings and a technical zone for the neutral beam power supplies are planned. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 26 February 2021 Download Rooftop HVAC installation All HVAC equipment has now been installed on the roof of the Tokamak Assembly Preparatory Building.
25 January 2021 Download Work begins on a new set of buildings On a level area in front of the Tokamak Complex, karst investigation and excavation has started for a series of buildings (two buildings and one technical area) that will be dedicated to the power supply of the neutral beam heating system.
21 January 2021 Download TAPB building, finished on time The Tokamak Assembly Preparation Building (TAPB) construction team completed this building to nuclear specifications in nine months. The team was recognized by a 2020 ITER Award, winning in the "Balance-of-Plant Systems" category in December.
08 January 2021 Download Space needed The need for storage and workshop spaces is high on the ITER site and every ounce of space must be utilized. This additional building just went up near the European Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 December 2020 Download Under the surface Our eyes are mostly focused on work happening above the platform ... but a lot is happening just under the surface to ensure that power, water and services are distributed around the platform. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 December 2020 Download Still in its cocoon The cryostat upper cylinder is still waiting in its protective cocoon to be called into the Assembly Hall. The lower cylinder was installed in August 2020. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 December 2020 Download New structures On the northeastern corner of the platform, several new structures have emerged. Left: the Tokamak Assembly Preparatory Building; right: a new storage facility. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 24 November 2020 Download Preparations underway for a new building Near the Assembly Hall, groundwork has started for a new building that will house electrical switching equipment. Contractors are drilling regular holes to check for karsts (fissures) in the bedrock.
20 October 2020 Download TAPB: fully erected In a northeastern corner of the platform, not far from the Assembly Hall, the Tokamak Assembly Preparatory Building is fully erected. It is a one-story building, with a full basement.
12 October 2020 Download Managing AC current What can be contained in a medium-size building in a steelworks or other heavy industrial facility requires a one-hectare yard at ITER. Adjacent to the Reactive Power Control Building (background), the reactive power compensators area accommodates reactors, capacitors, resistors and sensors that aim to smooth the flow of AC current both inside the ITER installation and in the immediate vicinity.
04 October 2020 Download ITER fully connected Three 400 kV transformers for the pulsed power electrical network (PPEN) have been energized. Going forward, the French operator RTE considers ITER as fully connected and operational, with all seven ITER connections at the 400kV level in operation. (There are three transformers for the pulsed power network and four for the steady state electrical network.) 30 September 2020 Download Machining workshop installed on site The new workshop will be operated by the DYNAMIC consortium, which was formed to execute one of ITER's two main machine assembly contracts, TAC2 (Tokamak Assembly Contract 2). The workshop will be a space for repairs and retrofitting, and boasts two milling machines, a large CNC (Computer Numeric Control) machine, and spaces for welding and metrology.
22 September 2020 Download Over the platform From the roof of the Tokamak Building, looking in the northeast direction towards the new beryllium storage facility (also called the Tokamak Assembly Preparatory Building). © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 04 September 2020 Download Small building rising The Tokamak Assembly Preparatory Building (TAPB) is rising in one corner of the ITER platform. Destined to receive and store beryllium components in the future, it will first be used for assembly prep activities.
03 August 2020 Download Pouring has started A full basement and one floor—the Tokamak Assembly Preparatory Building is going up not far from the Assembly Hall.
03 August 2020 Download Walls rise for beryllium storage building The building in the foreground will be used down the road to store ITER blanket components containing beryllium. Up to then, it will serve as another assembly preparatory building (hence its name: the Tokamak Assembly Preparatory Building, or TAPB). © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 15 June 2020 Download Finding your way on site To identify the buildings and technical areas of the ITER site, please see this article: https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/3451.
08 June 2020 Download First magnet on site The first ITER magnet to arrive on site—toroidal field coil #12, procured by Europe—is delivered to a temporary building (background) where it will be prepared for lifting and handling.
17 April 2020 Download 75% of the way there The civil structures of the ITER site are constructed under the responsibility of Fusion for Energy, the European Domestic Agency, in conjunction with its Architect Engineer ENGAGE. Seventy-five percent of the civil work required by First Plasma has been completed. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 03 March 2020 Download From the north The ITER site is photographed by drone in late February 2020. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 25 February 2020 Download Basemat completed on new building The basemat for the beryllium handling facility (also called the Tokamak Preparatory Activities Building) is in place and contractors are installing rebar. The building will have a full basement and one floor. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 15 February 2020 Download Radio Frequency Building The structure of the three-floor Radio Frequency Building is in place, and equipment will begin arriving this summer. The ground floor (pictured) will house 12 power supplies for 24 gyrotons (external heating devices). © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 29 January 2020 Download Excavated and waiting The largest construction project left to realize on the ITER site is the Hot Cell Facility, which will rise in this excavated area next to the Tokamak Building. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 29 January 2020 Download Stored on site The cryostat lower cylinder, cleaned and stored in protective wrapping on the construction platform, will soon be joined by the upper cylinder. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 January 2020 Download Site south Much of the central area of the platform is dedicated to electrical power, with two identical buildings for magnet power conversion (centre), a small facility for reactive power compensation (further along to the right) and as yet unbuilt structures to house the neutral beam power supplies. Also visible is the European magnet winding facility (far left) and the ITER cryoplant (left).
08 January 2020 Download Powering the facility A vast electrical switchyard occupies the southern third of the construction platform to transform 400 kV current from the French electrical grid into the pulsed power required by the machine, or the steady state power required by the installation. The commissioning of the electrical distribution networks has proceeded on pace with needs.
08 January 2020 Download A view of the future Control Building ITER's main control room will be situated in a non-nuclear structure on the northern corner of the platform. Work will begin on the structure in 2020. © Enia Architectes, France 16 December 2019 Download Optimizing space Every corner of the ITER platform has been optimized. In this photo, we see the excavation underway for the Tokamak Assembly Preparatory Building (left), a storage tent, and a smaller rectangular building dedicated to preparatory activities on the toroidal field coils. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 04 December 2019 Download Lots of electricity The electrical substation takes up nearly half of the ITER site. Across the middle is a row of transformers—four for the steady state electrical network and three larger transformers for the pulsed power electrical network (PPEN) that will feed the magnets and heating systems during operation. The first PPEN transformer will be connected to the grid next month. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 24 October 2019 Download Power Supplies Distribution Building The Power Supplies Distribution Building is handed over by the European Domestic Agency to the ITER Organization in October. The equipment will contribute to distributing the current for activities across the worksite. ©F4E 15 October 2019 Download Another red and white crane At the end of this alley of transformers, is the giant crawler crane that has been installed to lift the elements of the Tokamak Building roof. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 September 2019 Download Tall enough The boom of the new crawler crane reaches more than 100 metres. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 September 2019 Download A new project Work has begun on the foundations of the Tokamak Assembly Preparatory Building, where beryllium components will be handled and stored after their delivery to the ITER site. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 August 2019 Download New arrivals on the platform These alien-looking objects are harmonic filters, part of ITER's reactive power compensation and harmonic filtering system. This unique system is responsible for fast-acting reactive power compensation on the high-voltage electricity transmission network, in order to stabilize the power grid and provide the required quality of electrical power to operate ITER. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 August 2019 Download The view late August Looking south over the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility (red top), the ITER cryoplant, and one of the two buildings for magnet power conversion. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 August 2019 Download A last free corner One of the last free spots on the platform—on the northern tip—is reserved for the Control Building. Work is scheduled to begin next year. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 August 2019 Download Storage on the hill Contractors have erected a new storage facility on the hill behind ITER for the many pipes that are being delivered for ITER's cooling water networks. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 19 June 2019 Download New excavation Excavation has ended for a concrete building designed for the distinct storage and handling requirements of ITER's beryllium components—in particular, the first-wall panels of the ITER blanket. But as these components are not expected on site before late 2024, the building will be used in the interim for Tokamak pre-assembly work. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 19 June 2019 Download Bridges planned The central area of the ITER construction houses facilities for magnet power conversion (two buildings, left) and cryogenics (right). Overhead bridges will be installed between these buildings and the Tokamak Complex (grey concrete) for the transport of power and cryogens like liquid helium. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 17 June 2019 Download Cooling towers, from above The infrastructure of the ITER cooling tower area, with 10 individual cells, is advancing on the northern corner of the ITER worksite. Large updraft fans will be installed in September. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 17 June 2019 Download Extending storage capacity Sitting on compacted backfill from the early worksite excavation works, the low black-clad building is ITER's largest warehouse. It provides a total of 15,000 m² of storage (9,000 m² internal, 6,000 m² external) and accommodates medium-size components waiting to be integrated into the ITER machine and plant systems. A recently erected structure in the background will provide racking for the storage of pipe lengths.
17 June 2019 Download New building, two purposes The Tokamak Assembly Preparatory Building will provide the space and systems to receive, transport, test, store, pre-assemble and export berylliated components. From 2020 to 2023—before those components arrive—the building will serve as part laboratory/part training facility for first-phase machine assembly activities. Excavation is underway on site.
14 May 2019 Download Architect's rendition An architect's rendition of the Tokamak Assembly Preparatory Building, which will be erected before summer 2020 on the northeastern corner of the ITER construction platform.
14 May 2019 Download State of play on the worksite The ITER worksite. In steel grey: the completed buildings; in purple: buildings in progress; in blue: future buildings. © Fusion for Energy 2019 15 April 2019 Download Three plant buildings handed over The European Domestic Agency Fusion for Energy hands over three completed buildings to the ITER Organization in March: the twin Magnet Power Conversion buildings and a smaller facility for reactive power compensation. Equipment installation can now begin.
29 March 2019 Download Late March 2019 Looking south over the ITER site from one of the Tokamak Complex cranes.
29 March 2019 Download An unassuming name, a strategic building Despite a rather unassuming name, the Site Services Building is a strategic resource for the entire installation, accommodating and distributing a large number of industrial support services and systems. All mechanical and electrical equipment (pumps, chillers, pressurizers, cabinets and chemical dosing systems) and relevant piping has been installed, and a series of hydrostatic tests have been completed successfully.
12 December 2018 Download Ready to serve the installation in 2019 Installation works in the Site Services Building have been completed on time, despite a complicated context of limited space, numerous interfaces and coordination. Eight 25-tonne chillers are installed at right (plus their soft starters in yellow).
12 December 2018 Download Important arteries Cable drums are lined up outside of the ITER cryoplant, where tray laying and cable pulling activities are about to start. A total of 10,000 kilometres of cables will be needed at ITER to connect components, provide power and transmit data.
03 December 2018 Download A special kind of house This "electrical house" (E-houses) will accommodate dozens of instrumentation and control cubicles that relay orders from the control room to the installation's high voltage components. In November is transported to its final platform location.
22 November 2018 Download Piping from India Piping under Indian scope for the component cooling water, chilled water and heat rejection systems represents some 100 containers worth in all. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 03 October 2018 Download Heating building This building to the side of the Assembly Hall will contain the power sources and wave generators for two of ITER's external heating systems—the ion cyclotron and the electron cyclotron systems. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 03 October 2018 Download Gallery work Service galleries for electricity and communication crisscross the platform at a depth of five metres. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 05 September 2018 Download Nice view Looking out of the third floor of the Radio Frequency Building in August. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 August 2018 Download Plant system zone Areas for cryogenics, magnet power conversion, and the arrival of electricity ... all in support of the ITER Tokamak. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 25 July 2018 Download Looking south Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 25 July 2018 Download Looking north Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 24 July 2018 Download Hot work in July Asphalting the heavy-weight storage zone. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 23 July 2018 Download Special reinforcement Outside of the Cryostat Workshop is an exterior storage area for heavy components. Asphalting has been going on all summer. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 23 July 2018 Download Inside the catacombs Service galleries coming from three different areas of the platform join at a junction near the cryoplant. A five-kilometre network of underground service tunnels criss-crosses the ITER site to bring electricity and communications to the buildings.
15 July 2018 Download Cable trays Some of the first underground galleries on site (near the Tokamak Complex) have already been equipped with cable trays.
15 July 2018 Download On-site storage Z2—the largest on-site warehouse—provides a total of 15,000 m² of storage (9,000 m² internal, 6,000 m² external).
17 May 2018 Download Managing the pieces Logistics management is a critical activity for ITER. But the complexity of the machine and plant, the sheer amount of components to assemble, and the multiplicity of providers on three continents all make for a particularly daunting task at ITER.
17 May 2018 Download Finished in 2017 Three of the structures that were completed in 2017 and made ready for equipment: (from left to right) the cryoplant and two buildings dedicated to magnet power conversion. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 April 2018 Download Reactive Power Compensation Building This new building on the platform is part of the suite of buildings needed to house coil power systems. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 27 March 2018 Download Changing platform Four gaseous helium storage tanks procured by Europe have been installed near the cryoplant. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 February 2018 Download Digging Ground work is underway near the PPEN transformers (for Pulsed Power Electrical Network). © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 February 2018 Download One kilometre of construction All of the ITER plant buildings are located on the level 42-hectare construction platform, which is one kilometre in length. In the early years of the construction project, deep galleries were created under the surface of the platform for storm water, run-off water, and technical services like electricity and water. Most of these galleries have now disappeared from view, but their role will be critical during ITER operation.
19 January 2018 Download Limousine stop? In front of the cryoplant (second building from the top) what looks like a theatre marquee, ready to shelter chauffeured limousines, is in fact a concrete platform that will support a 190,000-litre liquid helium tank—one of the 11 tanks that will be installed, either vertically or horizontally, along the building.
19 January 2018 Download A good place for photos As the Tokamak Complex rises there is less to see at ground level. One possible viewpoint for the visitor is the roof of the contractor parking garage, where this photo was taken.
18 January 2018 Download New building This small structure frames out the future pump house of the heat rejection system. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 16 January 2018 Download A consequential flow rate Here is an especially large technical gallery heading out toward the heat rejection zone. The maximum total flow rate during operation toward this zone is 14 m³/s. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 December 2017 Download A small city? This busy image, captured in December, makes the ITER construction site look like a small, bustling city. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 December 2017 Download Installation activities The focus is turning to equipment installation for these three long buildings, as the structures themselves have reached an advanced level of maturity. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 December 2017 Download Crane installed in Radio Frequency Building This girder is one of two that will be lifted to level 3 of the Radio Frequency Building and installed with a trolley to be used in the installation of radio frequency and microwave heating components.
19 December 2017 Download We have arrival The first beam is detached from the crane and moved inside the building to make room for the delivery of the second.
19 December 2017 Download Up we go The beams are lifted to the third floor of the building, where the wave generators will be housed.
19 December 2017 Download Platform delivery Two crane girders are delivered to the Radio Frequency Heating Building.
19 December 2017 Download Snow on the rooftops In December a light dusting of snow covered the rooftops of the cryoplant (left) and the Magnet Power Conversion building (right) for 24 hours. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 05 December 2017 Download Overview Looking west over the ITER construction site, with a component storage area front left, and buildings from left to right: the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility (red trim), the Cleaning Facility, the cryoplant, the Assembly Hall, the Radio Frequency Heating Building, and the Site Services Building (long and low). Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 04 December 2017 Download News from the Radio Frequency Building Work is underway on the interior partitions and floors of the Radio Frequency Heating Building.
07 November 2017 Download Distributing the power A lot of work is underway on the technical galleries connecting the electrical switchyard to the Magnet Power Conversion buildings and others. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 26 October 2017 Download Technical galleries underway Work is underway on—but also underneath—the ITER platform. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 26 October 2017 Download Waves generated here Microwaves and radiofrequency waves generated in this building by the electron cyclotron and the ion cyclotron heating systems will travel along waveguides to the Tokamak. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 30 September 2017 Download Cladding advances in August The cladding on the Radio Frequency Heating building (right) is filling in. Soon we'll have a trio of matching structures.
29 August 2017 Download Cryo and conversion On the left the cryoplant building is now fully framed out; on the right, the first bays have been created for transformers outside of Magnet Power Conversion building #1. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 29 August 2017 Download The e-zone Between the electrical switchyard and the ITER buildings is a large zone dedicated to electricity, with transformers, substations, e-houses and technical galleries. Teams are hard at work in that area now. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 29 August 2017 Download Late August In the background are the three huge PPEN transformers (for pulsed power electrical network--needed to power the plasma pulses of the machine). Technical galleries are underway in the foreground. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 29 August 2017 Download The Main AC Current Building A new building has gone up on site, alongside the row of SSEN transformers (for steady state electrical network). Here's a peek inside. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 29 August 2017 Download Transformer row In this picture, four transformers for the steady state electrical network are followed by three larger transformers for the pulsed power electrical network. The first group was procured by the United States; the second group was procured by China. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 29 August 2017 Download Small addition, southside The small Main AC Current Building has received the same exterior treatment (alternating panels of stainless steel and grey lacquered metal) as the larger buildings of the facility. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 29 August 2017 Download Contractors area On this corner of the platform, companies or consortiums that have been awarded construction contracts by the European Domestic Agency have a small parcel of land for offices, comfort facilities and storage. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE.
29 August 2017 Download Something new on this side of the platform A small building has gone up next to the electrical switchyard : the Main Alternating Current Distribution building. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 21 August 2017 Download Exterior storage A few tanks await transport to the cryoplant in this triangular storage zone on the northeast side of the platform. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 21 August 2017 Download Services on site The Site Services Building will accommodate a large chiller plant, a demineralized water plant and other industrial services. These pipes will help carry the chilled or demineralized water where it's needed.
17 August 2017 Download Pipes and elbows These supersize pipes (one metre and more in diameter) for the heat rejection system are designed for a flow rate of two cubic metres per second.
13 July 2017 Download From the northeast The Assembly Hall is joined to two smaller buildings: the Cleaning Facility (left) and the Radio Frequency Heating Building (right).
12 July 2017 Download Midsection To the south of the Tokamak Complex is the area reserved for: (top to bottom) the winding of poloidal field magnets (red-topped roof); the ITER cryoplant (in grey); and magnet power conversion (two buildings under construction). © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 11 July 2017 Download A row of transformers Separated by concrete walls are seven large transformers that will convert power from the high voltage line down to voltages that can be used by the installation. In the foreground, the last of three PPEN transformers delivered by China for the pulsed power electrical network is about to be installed in its bay. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 11 July 2017 Download A postcard from ITER A guide to ITER construction ...
03 July 2017 Download Buried piping Water will travel out of the cooling water loops of the Tokamak and its systems, through these 1.6-metre-in-diameter pipes, and on to the heat rejection system. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 June 2017 Download Exceptional transport Snaking around the back of the platform, between the Cleaning Facility at left and the Cryostat Workshop plus Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility at right, is the transport convoy for an element of the cryoplant.
22 June 2017 Download Activity is heating up Workers install multiple layers of cladding to the metal structure of the Radio Frequency Heating Building.
14 June 2017 Download Waiting to be installed The preformed element will be installed in one of the upper levels of the ITER bioshield.
14 June 2017 Download Buildings mushrooming This June photo documents how far the ITER cryoplant (at right, fully clad) and the Radio Frequency Building (at left, partially clad) have come.
08 June 2017 Download Checking the plans Representatives of ENGAGE (architect engineer for the European Domestic Agency) and Ferrovial (part of the VFR consortium chosen to build the Tokamak Complex and eight other buildings) review plans. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 31 May 2017 Download Welding elbows Segments of cooling water piping shipped from India are welded on site.© Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 27 April 2017 Download It takes two ... or three Pre-welding operations on cooling water piping in April. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 27 April 2017 Download Temporary docking This large transformer and its sister, delivered this week from China, are temporarily stored on the platform until permanent installation is possible.
18 April 2017 Download Radio Frequency Building: starting to fit in As the first layer of cladding is filled in, the RF Building is beginning to look at home with its neighbours (from left to right the Cleaning Facility, the Assembly Hall and the Site Services Building). Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 10 April 2017 Download When a transformer purrs On 30 March, electricity flows without a hitch from the grid substation to the 400 kV ITER switchyard, and from there into one of the four 22 kV worksite transformers. This "energization" will be repeated now for each of the three remaining 22 kV transformers of the steady state electrical network (SSEN).
30 March 2017 Download Peeking inside Close up to the three-storey Radio Frequency Building on the northern side of the Assembly Hall. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 March 2017 Download Cladding activities to start soon Scaffolding is in place for the start of Radio Frequency Building cladding activities. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 March 2017 Download Hundreds of separate components Bringing down the voltage from the 400 kV power line to a level useable by the ITER facilities takes a huge switchyard and hundreds of components. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 March 2017 Download (More) underground networks Since 2012, teams have been working on the different underground networks of the platform. Four kilometres of networks are planned in all. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 March 2017 Download Electrical works Works continue to prepare the on-site electrical switchyard, including the "first energizing" procedure for the first of seven bays. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 March 2017 Download E-houses installed Two E-houses for the pulsed power electrical network are now installed on site. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 March 2017 Download Creating floors and inner partitions The three-storey Radio Frequency Building is going up against the northern face of the Assembly Hall. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 February 2017 Download Looking north Standing near the Tokamak Complex, looking north over the site of the cooling towers and basins. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 January 2017 Download New project on the worksite Work underway on the site of one of the Magnet Power Conversion buildings. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 January 2017 Download Good progress on the RF heating building A view of the Radio Frequency Building, in late January. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 January 2017 Download From a nearby roof This photo was taken from the roof of the Site Services Building, located just a few metres away. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 January 2017 Download Working toward energizing the switchyard In close coordination with the French transmission system operator RTE the ITER Organization is now embarked on the step-by-step process that will lead to the "energization" of the ITER switchyard. Tests started in January on the first of the switchyard's seven bays.
20 January 2017 Download From the sky The technical areas of the ITER construction platform from bottom left to middle right: the transformers of the electrical switchyard; work underway on the technical galleries of the Magnet Power Conversion buildings; and the columns of the ITER cryoplant. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 12 January 2017 Download Underground labyrinth Digging continues on the underground technical galleries of the Magnet Power Conversion buildings. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 12 January 2017 Download Looking west From left to right: the Cleaning Facility, the Assembly Hall, the Radio Frequency Building; the Site Services Building. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 12 January 2017 Download Dedicated to external heating sources Powerful radio frequency waves will travel along waveguides through the Assembly Building in order to reach the tokamak. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 12 January 2017 Download Landing pad for ITER The worksite's sodium lights grow yellow at night, creating this futuristic image that brings to mind an intergalactic spaceport. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 12 January 2017 Download The southern side of the platform New projects are underway on the southern side of the platform. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 19 December 2016 Download Technical galleries Contractors are creating technical galleries between the future Magnet Power Conversion Buildings (left) and the ITER cryoplant (right, with columns). Four kilometres of technical galleries will crisscross the ITER platform in all, just under the surface. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 19 December 2016 Download An important neighbor The Radio Frequency Building, now nearly framed out, will be 50 metres long, 43 metres wide and 25 metres tall. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 19 December 2016 Download Full of power supplies and generators Originally planned for installation in the Assembly Hall, radio wave equipment for the electron and ion resonance heating systems will now have a building of its own: the Radio Frequency Building that is going up now against the north side of the Assembly Hall. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 19 December 2016 Download Three floors planned The first two floors of the building will be occupied by power supplies (a total input of 100 MW). The top floor will host the wave generators (gyrotrons and tetrodes). © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 19 December 2016 Download One winter evening A fish-eye lens helps our photographer to capture the construction site across its entire breadth in December 2016.
13 December 2016 Download Transformer bays Four transformers procured by the US are now installed on the ITER platform. To the left, bays are ready to receive three larger transformers procured by China.
12 December 2016 Download Worksite filling in Separate construction projects are distinguishable from the air: the Tokamak Complex (lower left), the cryoplant (upper right), groundwork for the Magnet Power Conversion buildings (lower right).
02 December 2016 Download Building delivered in 2017 Workers have begun installing the roof structure for the ITER cryoplant. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 02 December 2016 Download As the lights come on The ITER construction site in November, photographed from the roof of the Headquarters building.
14 November 2016 Download Waiting for assembly to begin Inside of the largest on-site storage facility, components shipped by the ITER Members are tagged and stored.
08 November 2016 Download Planning for power conversion On the worksite of the Magnet Power Conversion buildings, digging is underway for the electrical galleries.
27 October 2016 Download Just under the surface Technical galleries under construction on the ITER worksite.
27 October 2016 Download The ITER construction platform The ITER scientific facility is under construction on a 42-hectare platform in Provence, France, at 315 metres above sea level. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 07 October 2016 Download First PPEN transformer installed The first 280-tonne transformer for ITER's pulsed power network (PPEN) has been installed on site. Once equipped with additional components and filled with oil, this Chinese-procured component will weigh 460 tonnes. Two others like it will arrive at ITER in early 2017.
06 October 2016 Download Serving the whole installation The Site Services Building will host a chiller plant for cooling water as well as a demineralized water plant, air compressors and a maintenance and instrumentation workshop. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 05 October 2016 Download Components enter here On the south side of the Assembly Hall, the Cleaning Facility will be the entry point for components. The building will function as an airlock to minimize the amount of dust from the platform that gets into the clean environment inside. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 05 October 2016 Download External heating to be housed here The large opening in the reflective surface of the Assembly Hall is reserved for the Radio Frequency Heating Building, under construction now. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 05 October 2016 Download Electrifying The very high voltage electrical substation on the south side of the platform was realized as part of France's commitment to ITER. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 04 October 2016 Download Site work begins for Magnet Power Conversion buildings In this vast area between the electrical switchyard and the Tokamak Pit, digging has started on the site of two Magnet Power Conversion buildings, which will house equipment for converting AC power to DC power for the superconducting magnet system. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 04 October 2016 Download Transformer town On the south end of the platform, five of seven transformers are in place for ITER's electrical networks (pictured: a US-procured transformer for the steady state electrical network). Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 04 October 2016 Download Large transformer moved to permanent home Three large transformers like this one will be part of the network that distributes pulsed power to the installation. The 280-tonne component was installed in its permanent "pit" on site. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 04 October 2016 Download Come on down Located next to the high voltage switchyard, these components will "bring down" the voltage to useable levels. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 04 October 2016 Download Storage warehouse in service On the hill behind ITER, a large warehouse has been constructed for the storage of components delivered by the ITER Members. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 04 October 2016 Download Reserved for Chinese transformers Two other large transformers have been fabricated in China for ITER. As we wait for their arrival, workers are preparing their on-site beds. © Les Nouveaux Médias/ENGAGE 28 September 2016 Download High voltage park The very high tension arriving along the 400 kV line will be converted in this area of the platform before being distributed to the ITER systems. ©F4E/LNM 28 September 2016 Download Largest storage facility The 9,000 m² warehouse, built behind the construction platform, is already storing ITER components. © Les Nouveaux Médias/ENGAGE 21 September 2016 Download Work in the 400kV switchyard As the needs of the construction site ramp up, the project will require more electricity than the neighbouring CEA network can supply. The 400kV switchyard will be powered up by Europe during the first quarter of 2017 to supply the 22kV network on site. © Les Nouveaux Médias/ENGAGE 21 September 2016 Download Servicing the site Work continues on the inside of the Site Services Building, where the chiller room is now fully equipped. © Les Nouveaux Médias/ENGAGE 21 September 2016 Download Three zones in a row On either side of the cooling water tower/basin worksite is the concrete plant (background) and the site of the future Control Room (foreground). © Les Nouveaux Médias/ENGAGE 21 September 2016 Download On the inside of the Site Services Building Work is underway on the interior fittings of the Site Services Building.
26 July 2016 Download Assembly Building ... extended The frame of the Cleaning Facility is up on the eastern side of the Assembly Building.
20 July 2016 Download Foundations underway Work is underway on the foundations of the Radiofrequency Heating Building.
19 July 2016 Download Looking northeast The northern end of the ITER platform, with material storage areas in the foreground. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 11 July 2016 Download From above Parallel to the winding facility for poloidal field coils (at right) the construction of the ITER cryoplant is underway. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 11 July 2016 Download Clean and white Elements of the Cleaning Facility's structure permit to visualize the dimensions of the future building.
07 July 2016 Download Preparing for the first Chinese transformer Work is underway on the platform to prepare for the installation of the first PPEN transformer (for the pulsed power electrical network) delivered by China.
24 June 2016 Download Standing in wait This is the first of three transformers delivered by China for ITER's pulsed power electrical network (PPEN). It is in temporary storage on the ITER platform while the transformer "pit" is readied.
24 June 2016 Download Activity all over the platform Adjacent to the Site Services Building (completed, in background) work is underway on the foundations of the Radio Frequency Heating Building.
24 June 2016 Download Excavation works Digging continues on the site of the Magnet Power Conversion buildings in June.
24 June 2016 Download Cleaning Facility The frame is up for the Cleaning Facility, through which all components will pass before entering the Assembly Hall. The other opening in the Assembly Hall, at right, is reserved for the access of the radio frequency heating systems.
14 June 2016 Download Magnet power conversion Work will be starting soon in this area of the platform, reserved for the two Magnet Power Conversion buildings.
02 June 2016 Download Backfilling underway More than 4 km of technical galleries will run under the surface of the platform by the end of ITER construction. Backfilling is underway for the section of gallery that runs alongside the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility. Photo: ENGAGE 24 February 2016 Download Site Services Building - quickly framed out Cladding works on the Site Services Building are well underway. In June, contractors will begin installing electrical and mechanical service equipment. Photo: ENGAGE 16 February 2016 Download On the site of the future cooling towers On the north side of the platform, work has just begun on the site of the future cooling water basin and towers. Photo: ENGAGE 16 February 2016 Download Site Services Building framed out Work is ending on the cladding/roof of the Site Services Building (foreground). In May, contractors will begin installing HVAC and piping.
04 February 2016 Download A new project on the platform In December, excavation begins for one of the auxiliary buildings of the scientific facility—the Radio Frequency Heating Building (in the background: the frame of the Site Services Building). Photo: F4E 01 December 2015 Download Closing up the galleries The last operation for these technical galleries running alongside the Poloidal Field Coils building will be to "close up the box." Photo: F4E 20 October 2015 Download First walls for Site Services The walls are rising for the 80-metre-long Site Services Building, which will furnish industrial services (chilled or demineralized water, compressed air) to the rest of the installation. Photo: F4E 20 October 2015 Download Four transformers installed Transformers are made of hundreds of parts that can only be assembled once the main body is in its final position. After a few months of intensive work, the four SSEN 400kV transformers, part of the US procurement to ITER, are now fully assembled and filled with 60,000 litres of insulating oil each.
14 October 2015 Download At your service The Site Services Building will accommodate and distribute a large number of industrial support services that are indispensable for operating ITER. Among these, a chiller plant will feed cooling water to buildings through a four-kilometre network of piping. Concrete pouring for the 80-metre-long facility has started.
14 October 2015 Download Projects mushrooming Preparatory works have begun for the buildings that will house the giant magnets power conversion units. As for all other buildings, the process kicks off with "soil investigation," where long drill bits are pushed as much as 15 metres below the surface in order to identify possible discontinuities or cavities created by water erosion (karsts). Holes are bored approximately every five metres.
14 October 2015 Download Galleries galore Work on the platform technical galleries is not quite completed (here, "area 5" along the Poloidal Field Coils facility). In all, four kilometres of underground galleries will service the ITER scientific installation.
14 October 2015 Download Inside Inside of the storage facility, the first crates have been temporarily stored in one corner. The space will soon be fitted out with storage shelves and pallet racks.
16 September 2015 Download Largest warehouse nearly completed Construction activities are nearly over on the largest ITER warehouse—a 10,000 m² facility behind the ITER platform (160 metres long, 60 metres wide, 12 metres high).
10 July 2015 Download Unloading docks and a mega door On the north side of the warehouse, there are five unloading docks and one mega door (6m x 6m). Due to the slope of the access road (max 8%), the warehouse isn't designed for ITER's largest and heaviest components.
10 July 2015 Download Blacktopping Workers complete the blacktopping of the logistics platform.
10 July 2015 Download Activity to commence in early 2016 The building will be ready to store its first components early next year. The zone is also equipped with a guardhouse (foreground), a parking lot, a storm basin sized for centennial rains (+20%) and a garage for six fork lifts.
26 June 2015 Download Mega jolt At 3:37 p.m. on Tuesday 9 June 2015, a monster bolt of lightning was captured on film as it zigzagged into - and out of - crane #2.
09 June 2015 Download Transformer is equipped The first transformer to be installed on the platform has been equipped with ancillary components (oil radiators, an oil conservator, and long ceramic insulators called "bushings"). In a final installation step, the transformer will be filled with the transformer will be filled with 60,000 litres of oil.
08 June 2015 Download In place The 87-tonne transformer sits over a 1.5-metre-deep, gravel-covered pit that has been dimensioned to receive the 44 cubic metres of oil the component contains (oil is used as an insulator) in case of a leak. Photo: F4E 21 May 2015 Download First installed component of the ITER plant! The first of four transformers for ITER's steady state electrical network is installed in its permanent location on 21 May 2015—the first installed component of the ITER plant.
21 May 2015 Download Standing at attention A dozen 400 kV electrical components for current and tension measurements are momentarily "stored" near the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility. Solidly bolted into concrete and installed vertically to preserve their oil-filled insulation system, they will be installed in their final location on the platform later in the year.
21 April 2015 Download Site service building galleries: weathertight The backfilling has been completed around the deep technical galleries of the Site Services Building and the last wall will be poured this month. Photo: Engage Consortium 13 April 2015 Download 87-tonne transformer The 87-tonne transformer that will take its place here was procured by the US, manufactured in Korea, and delivered to the ITER site in January. Concrete pouring is nearly completed on the reinforcement wall and supports. Photo: Engage Consortium 09 April 2015 Download First transformer pit Near the 400 kV switchyard, a reinforced pit has been created for the first of four electrical transformers that will connect the switchyard to ITER's AC electrical distribution system. Photo: Engage Consortium 07 April 2015 Download The practical side of building ITER In the contractors zone on the ITER platform, temporary offices have been erected by the construction consortiums (yellow and red buildings) and a full-service canteen (foreground) serves up to 1,000 meals per day.
26 March 2015 Download Service building The Site Service Building is entirely framed out and clad. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 26 March 2015 Download A parking spot for a large electrical transformer This concrete has been set into place to support the first of four electrical transformers that will connect the 400kV switchyard to the AC electrical distribution system. The 87-tonne transformer will be positioned shortly. Photo: F4E 13 February 2015 Download Up on the hill Designed for the storage of medium-sized ITER components, the warehouse on the hill can be reached by a road through the forest.
12 February 2015 Download A warehouse with a view Looking out of the largest of four storage facilities that are under construction for the storage of ITER components.
12 February 2015 Download Good progress this month Work on the largest of four planned storage facilities is proceeding rapidly.
12 February 2015 Download Site Services building In what will be the basement of the Site Services building, work is under way on technical galleries. Photo: F4E 11 February 2015 Download Preparing the galleries From these galleries, which run the length of the Site Services building, important industrial support services will be distributed to the ITER plant. Photo: F4E 11 February 2015 Download Logistics centre A new 150-metre long, 60-metre wide, 12-metre high storage facility is rising quickly on the back portion of ITER land.
19 December 2014 Download Behind the hill The two-hectare logistics platform will host the 9,000 m2 warehouse and an outdoor storage area. It is located on a stretch of land that was transferred from CEA to the ITER Organization in 2014.
18 December 2014 Download Preparatory work for the Site Services Building Under the future Site Services Building (utilities, fluid management), galleries have been dug, and reinforced, for the passage of piping. Photo: F4E 03 December 2014 Download Temporary storage facility rising Near the entrance to the ITER site, a new storage facility will soon be ready to receive components shipped from manufacturing sites in China, Europe, India, Japan, Korea, Russia and the United States.
02 December 2014 Download More storage Two other storage facilities are rising near the original ITER Headquarters building, to the south of the ITER platform.
02 December 2014 Download Five building cranes now in place Tokamak Complex construction will require at least four years. Five tall cranes are now in place around the Seismic Pit ... ready to deliver the materials to the wall construction site 12 metres below the level of the platform. Photo: F4E 01 December 2014 Download Four out of five Looking across the Assembly Building basemat toward Headquarters, we see that four of the five cranes for Tokamak Complex construction are in place. Photo: F4E 20 November 2014 Download The workhorse of the worksite Of the five cranes that are being installed for the construction of the Tokamak Complex, this will be the largest (85 metres) with a lifting capacity of 18 tonnes.
01 October 2014 Download Facility will be in place end 2015 By the end of 2015, a climate controlled, steel-structure warehouse will be in place on a parcel of land behind the ITER platform. Half of its surface will be used for mass storage; the other half will be equipped with racks up to eight metres high for pallet storage.
26 September 2014 Download From the air in April A late April view of work on the platform. In the projection of the Tokamak Complex Seismic Pit, the long concrete slab of the Assembly Building stands waiting (with three cut-outs for specialized assembly tooling).
29 April 2014 Download All in one frame In this shot of the ITER platform, the progress that's been made on the installation is easy to measure. In the background: the cryostat and poloidal field magnets assembly facilities; in the centre: the Tokamak Complex Seismic Pit and adjacent Assembly Building; and in the foreground: ITER Headquarters.
29 April 2014 Download State of play on the worksite Looking northwest across the site in April: in the foreground, on-site assembly facilities for the poloidal field coils (left) and the cryostat (right); in the distance, ITER Headquarters is growing by 35 metres to the left; and in the centre, three cranes indicate the location where work is advancing on the foundations for the Tokamak Complex.
12 April 2014 Download Storage facility at ITER entrance Work is currently underway to level a vacant lot at the entrance of Headquarters in order to build a 6,000 m² storage area.
01 March 2014 Download Acrobatic work Early in 2014 a telecommunications tower was installed on the ITER site, equipped with 2G and 3G technologies.
01 March 2014 Download Reaching over the galleries In the shadow, an example of the galleries that surround the Tokamak Complex. Pipes, cable trays and ducts servicing the machine will be housed here.
22 January 2014 Download On-site contractors area Below the ITER Visitors Centre are building consortium offices, and an infirmery and a canteen for the workers on the ITER site.
29 November 2013 Download First contractor offices on the platform In Contractors' zone on the southern end of the platform, the first modular building is going up. The main Tokamak Complex building contract will be piloted from here.
06 November 2013 Download "À table"! The worksite canteen is now open for business. At the peak of construction activities, 1,500 meals will be served here per day.
31 October 2013 Download Settling in for a few years All of the principle contracting companies will be issued an area on the platform where they can create their "home base" - an area for offices, storage shed, workshops and a few parking spaces.
31 October 2013 Download Filling in Work on the critical networks—the deepest networks on the ITER platform—ends in October 2013. The deep trenches that were a permanent feature on the platform for more than a year have now been filled in. Photo: F4E 26 September 2013 Download New roads for the construction consortiums Asphalt is poured in and around the new Contractors Area (CA2) where teams will soon settle in to manage the large construction contracts that have been awarded in the last six months.
16 July 2013 Download End of the tunnel? This tunnel, leading from the second floor of ITER Headquarters, will give scientists and technicians access to the Control Building situated on the north corner of the platform. For the moment, though, it sits waiting ...
01 July 2013 Download She'll be coming 'round the mountain ...
The pipes of the precipitation overflow network are protected by concrete, before backfilling and levelling operations can begin.
18 June 2013 Download Platform networks Hundreds of metres of concrete pipes (two-metres in diameter) have been installed for the platform's deep rainfall drainage network. The mountains of dirt will soon disappear: 80% of backfilling and levelling is now completed.
21 May 2013 Download Backfilling is easier in clement weather Backfilling operations continue after the heavy rainfall of mid-May. The deepest galleries will be filled over; at a later stage, digging will begin again for the cooling water pipes that will lead to and from the Tokamak Building.
21 May 2013 Download Upheaval on the platform All around the Tokamak Pit galleries are being dug for critical networks (heating, cooling, electricity). The excavated material is then used for backfill.
21 May 2013 Download Galleries and pipes finished in July As the bottom slab (B2) of the Tokamak Complex takes shape, the realization of technical galleries around the Tokamak Building continues.
21 May 2013 Download The deepest on-site networks Crossing the platform between the Headquarters building and the Poloidal Field Coils manufacturing facility is part of the platform's deep precipitation network. Photo: F4E 20 May 2013 Download Completing the technical galleries Technical galleries are finalized all around the Tokamak Complex in May.
07 May 2013 Download Almost ready The worksite canteen will be ready to serve its first hungry clients in September 2013. In the swing of construction works, evening meals will be served as well as noon meals. Photo: F4E 14 March 2013 Download Compaction The backfill around the drain pipes is filled in progressively and compacted in stages. Photo: F4E 14 March 2013 Download At the crossroads The different stages of pipework are visible in this photo: galleries not yet filled in to the left, chimneys poking up from completed networks to the right. Photo: F4E 14 March 2013 Download A chimney here, a chimney there Workers fill in the trenches for the overflow drainage network progressively, as sections of the network are completed. Regular chimneys (pictured) will provide access to the pipes for inspection. Photo: F4E 14 March 2013 Download Networks that are critical Critical network piping will crisscross the ITER site for precipitation drainage and cooling water release. In this section of the network, the pipes have been installed and backfilling is underway.
11 February 2013 Download Recycling materials Material dug up from the drainage trenches on site is reused—once crushed into a finer ground—for backfill.
07 February 2013 Download North of the Tokamak Complex Galleries dug in February will service the Tokamak Complex in essentials like power and water.
07 February 2013 Download DCIM\100MEDIA\DJI_0057.JPG 29 January 2013 Download The southeast corner of the platform Work progresses on Contractors Area 2 in January 2013. The area will be operational in March 2013.
22 January 2013 Download New contractor office building By June, this office building for 50 and the surrounding parking areas must be completed for staff that will arrive to manage the construction of the Tokamak Complex. Photo: F4E 11 January 2013 Download Backfill operations As the props are removed one by one, the excavated area around the precipitation drainage pipes is filled with backfill. Photo: F4E 11 January 2013 Download Site works in January Next to the large drainage network, concrete is drying around a smaller network of pipes. Photo: F4E 11 January 2013 Download These important networks will soon be covered over With the piping in place, work continues now on cement casing and backfilling. Photo: F4E 11 January 2013 Download Temporary office structures Modular offices for 50 people are positioned in the Contractors Area. Occupancy is expected in March 2013. Photo: F4E 19 December 2012 Download Inside the canteen The worksite canteen is scaled for 1,500 people. During the peak of construction activities, when over 3,000 workers are expected on site, certain construction companies will plan their own dining halls. Photo: F4E 19 December 2012 Download Critical services Critical networks for Contractors Area #2 (sanitary, electrical, drinking water) are installed in December 2012. Photo: F4E 19 December 2012 Download Boxing in the pipes Reinforcement and concrete pouring around the drainage network pipes is carried out in December 2012. Photo: F4E 19 December 2012 Download Ten metres underground Section by section, piping is installed for the platform's precipitation overflow area. Photo: F4E 19 December 2012 Download Worksite canteen Seventy modular buildings make up the worksite canteen, with a capacity to serve 1,500 meals per day. The canteen will be operational in September. Photo: F4E 19 December 2012 Download Peak of construction activities beginning 2014 Each contractor will have a modular office and storage area on the ITER platform. Photo: F4E 16 November 2012 Download Canteen to serve 1,500 meals It will take 70 modular "cubes" to make up the contractors canteen (1,500 meals/day). The canteen will be up and ready for September 2013. Photo: F4E 16 November 2012 Download Mountains of dirt With work on the deep drainage networks and on Contractor Area 2, it's not as easy as it once was to see across the ITER platform. In the foreground, foundations are installed for the worksite canteen. Photo: F4E 16 November 2012 Download Contractors area must be ready for March 2013 The corner of the platform reserved for contractor parking lots, modular buildings and storage areas. Photo: F4E 12 October 2012 Download Evacuating rainfall Pipes are installed for ITER's deep precipitation network. Photo: F4E 12 October 2012 Download Foundation work for modular buildings Work progresses on Contractors Area 2—a 3,500 square-metre area that will be reserved for the companies participating in the peak construction activities of the next few years. Photo: F4E 12 October 2012 Download 13,000 visitors The ITER Visitors Centre stands on the hill overlooking the site (top right). Nearly 13,000 people came through this building in 2012. Photo: F4E 12 October 2012 Download Trenches crisscross the platform Deep underground networks are under preparation for the evacuation of run-off water. Photo: F4E 12 October 2012 Download Latest cement production is for the Assembly Building worksite ITER's cement batching plant is back in action in September 2012.
13 September 2012 Download Evacuating the rainwater Large concrete pipes, measuring up to 2.2 metres in diameter, will collect rainwater from the platform buildings, roads and trenches. The deep underground network is configured to handle the water flow coming from a "centennial rain"- extreme rainfall that statistically occurs only once every century.
13 July 2012 Download 1.6 kilometres of underground pipes The rainwater captured on the platform will be carried by underground networks to the storm basins located at the southwest corner of the site. Work on this drainage network begin in March 2012 and will be completed in November.
09 July 2012 Download 42 hectares in a glance A panoramic view of the ITER worksite taken from the southwest corner of the platform.
03 July 2012 Download Trenches crisscross the site Digging for the underground networks begins in March. The trenches are from 8-11 metres deep. Photo: F4E 31 May 2012 Download Drainage water Rows of drainage water pipes await assembly 8 metres below the level of the platform. Photo: F4E 31 May 2012 Download Work begins on drainage Work begins on the critical networks: the installation of 2.2-metre-diameter concrete pipes 10 metres below the surface of the platform. Photo: F4E 31 May 2012 Download Energizing ITER Four years are necessary to bring the ITER switchyard to fruition. Beginning with technical and environmental studies and ending with 12 months of construction works, the realization of the RTE switchyard is part of France's commitment to the ITER project. Photo: F4E 31 May 2012 Download Soon to be "powered up" Installing and financing the ITER switchyard and power-line extension was part of France's commitment to ITER. The switchyard will be "powered on" in June. Photo: Engage-AP 20 April 2012 Download Bird's-eye view An image taken from a crane at the corner of the Tokamak Pit shows the RTE electrical switchyard (left) and the beginning of construction works (right) for a new contractor area (offices, parking lot, facilities). Photo: Engage-AP 20 April 2012 Download Help from the sky In difficult areas, helicopters are used to position temporary "pulling cables" that will later be attached to the actual power cables and pulled by a ground-based winch. Photo: © CEA/Corinne Guis 08 February 2012 Download A sea of cables and wires On the left, the "pantograph" has been deployed; on the right its articulated arms sit waiting. The 400kV pantographs connect the RTE busbars, source of high voltage current, to the ITER transformers.
07 February 2012 Download 120-tonne giant The first 120-tonne pylon is erected in December 2011 by aerial acrobats; twelve more like this are necessary to link the ITER facilities to the 400 kV power line six kilometres distant.
15 December 2011 Download 43 metres tall Electrical supply to the ITER site will be assured by an existing network that feeds the Tore Supra Tokamak; a one-kilometre extension will be enough to link the ITER machine into the network. Operating the ITER Tokamak will require from 120 MW to up to 620 MW of electricity for peak periods of 30 seconds.
23 November 2011 Download Sky high Work continues on the very high voltage electrical substation on the south side of the ITER platform.
15 November 2011 Download Giant Erector Set It will take 22 pylons to connect the ITER platform switchyard to the existing 400kV power line feeding the neighbouring Tore Supra installation at the CEA. Each 43-metre steel pylon weighs 100 tonnes.
10 November 2011 Download Four hectares for the ITER transformers The 22-metre pylons in the foreground support five-ton crossbars; from here, electricity will be directed toward seven 400 kV transformers. ITER's very high voltage electrical substation will be remotely controlled by RTE (Réseau de Transport d'Electricité).
15 September 2011 Download 42 hectares The 42-hectare ITER platform, seen from the southern corner in September 2011. Counterclockwise from left: the RTE switchyard, the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility, the Seismic Pit—home to the future ITER Tokamak—and, in the distance, the ITER Headquarters, forecast for completion in July 2012. Photo: Altivue/ITER Organization 14 September 2011 Download Switchyard emerges In a four-hectare area on the southwest portion of the platform, pylons are installed for the RTE (Réseau de Transport d'Electricité) switchyard that will deliver power from the French grid to the ITER facilities.
31 August 2011 Download Bringing electricity to the ITER site An artist's view of the 4,000 square metre "switchyard" through which power will be fed to ITER. Image credit: AIF Download Download Download ITER site layout An artist's impression of what ITER will look like.
Download Here's how it will look This technical drawing shows the ITER site as it will be in just a few years. © ITER Organization Design Office/Hurzlmeier/Niculici Download Click for full screen 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 ' + currentmenu.text() + ' Construction Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR Site infrastructure Site infrastructure Less spectacular but just as important: all of the site adaptation works that must be carried out to support the operation of the ITER machine and systems as well as provide the required amenities for a site workforce of 3,000 people. Photo: March 2023 (ITER Organization/EJF Riche) Worksite progress | A changing panorama Space management | Optimizing every square metre Worksite | Changing views On site | "The building works required for First Plasma are 85% complete" On site | ITER teams now fully in charge of platform coordination Control buildings | A question of balance Neutral beam power | "Outside and beyond anything" Worksite | A frontier town at the frontier of science Cable management | 10,000 kilometres of arteries Worksite | Inside the ITER catacombs Ten years ago preparation works began on the ITER site Mirror, mirror on the platform ...
FOR THE PUBLIC Jobs About ITER FAQs Photos Visits Education Donate/Sponsor FOR THE PRESS All News Welcome Facts and Figures ITER Milestones Press Releases Fusion Glossary FOR SCIENTISTS ITPA Fusion Links Conferences How to Publish ITER Technical Reports ITER International School FOR INDUSTRY Procurement Intellectual Property Foreign Workers in France Business Events INTRANET Intranet Sitemap Terms of use Privacy Policy © 2023, ITER Organization ITER Assembly Live Event - 28 JULY The event will be live-streamed, in three parts (all times listed are French local times): 10:00 a.m. — Tour of the ITER worksite and large components on site 11:00 a.m. — Ceremony, including statements by world leaders 12:30 a.m. (or following the ceremony) — Press conference
