old id = 828
The Tokamak Complex
2023
https://www.iter.org/construction/tkmcomplex

Jobs 7 Tenders 78 Faqs Visits Contact us ITER Directory Subscribe Donate.
gsc-placeholder-input{outline: none; background: url("http://www.google.com/cse/static/en/google_custom_search_watermark.gif") 0% 50% no-repeat rgb(255, 255, 255);padding: 1px 6px;border: 1px solid #DDD;width: 99%; font-size:13px;height: 30px;margin: 0px 5px;width: 100%!important;} .gsc-search-button{display:none} .gsc-control-cse{background-color:transparent; border-color:transparent} Subscribe options Select your newsletters: ITER Newsline Keep in touch with ITER through our main news feed, sent weekly.
ITER Magazine - French only Learn more about the ITER Project by subscribing to this quarterly online magazine that is geared toward the general public.
ITER Open Doors Day - Notifications Stay informed about the ITER Open Doors sessions and be among the first to subscribe to the next event.
Please enter your email address: @ Your email address will only be used for the purpose of sending you the ITER Organization publication(s) that you have requested.
ITER Organization will not transfer your email address or other personal data to any other party or use it for commercial purposes.
If you change your mind, you can easily unsubscribe by clicking the unsubscribe option at the bottom of an email you've received from ITER Organization.
For more information, see our Privacy policy.
') < 0){ $(this).remove(); } }) $("div.sub").each(function(){ $(this).appendTo("#menu-content"); if ($(this).find('li.active').length > 0){ var activeSubMenu = $(this).index() + 1; $("li.menu-cat[data-id='" + activeSubMenu + "']").addClass('active'); } else if( $(document).find('div#menu h2 a.active').length > 0 ) { } }) var activeIndex = $('li.menu-cat.active').index(); if(activeIndex >= 0){ $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == activeIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); } //hide menu on overlay click $('div.black-overlay').click(function(){ $('li.menu-cat.selected').trigger( "click" ); }); function menuBehaviour() { var isiPhone = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("iphone"); var isiPad = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("ipad"); var isiPod = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("ipod"); var isAndroid = /android/i.test(navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase()); var isBlackberry = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("BlackBerry"); var isOpera = /Opera/i.test(navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase()); var isIE = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("IEMobile"); //for Tablet if(isiPhone > -1 || isiPad > -1 || isiPod > -1 || isAndroid || isBlackberry > -1 || isOpera || isIE > 1){ $('li.menu-cat span.glyphicon').click(function(event) { //remove href link event.preventDefault(); currentMenu = $(this).parent().parent().parent(); setMenuTimeoutConst = setTimeout( function() { MenuToggle( $(currentMenu) ); setMenuTimeoutConst = null; }, 500 ); }); }else{ $('li.menu-cat').on( 'mouseenter', function() { currentMenu = $(this); setMenuTimeoutConst = setTimeout( function() { MenuToggle( $(currentMenu) ); setMenuTimeoutConst = null; }, 500 ); }); } } menuBehaviour(); $('li.menu-cat').on( 'mouseleave', function() { clearTimeout( setMenuTimeoutConst ); currentMenu = null; }); $('ul.general-menu').on( 'mouseleave', function() { closeMenuTimeout = setTimeout( closeMenu, 100 ); }); $('div#menu-content').on( 'mouseleave', function() { closeMenuTimeout = setTimeout( closeMenu, 100 ); }); $('ul.general-menu').on( 'mouseenter', function() { clearTimeout( closeMenuTimeout ); }); $('div#menu-content').on( 'mouseenter', function() { clearTimeout( closeMenuTimeout ); }); }); function closeMenu() { MenuToggle( $('.menu-cat.selected') ); clearTimeout( timeoutBlackOverlay ); $("div.black-overlay").hide(); clearTimeout( setMenuTimeoutConst ); } function MenuToggle( obj ) { currentMenu = obj; var id = $(obj).data('id'); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).find('div.column-select').css({'opacity':'0'}); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).removeClass('last'); if (id != $(this).data('id')){ $(this).removeClass('selected'); $(this).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-up').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-down'); $("div.sub.selected").addClass('last'); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).hide().removeClass('selected'); } }) if($(obj).hasClass('active')){ $("div.submenu-content-" + $(obj).data('id')).addClass('active'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); } if ($(obj).hasClass('selected')){ $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 0}); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).slideToggle().removeClass('selected'); $("div.sub").removeClass('last'); $("div.black-overlay").fadeTo(200, 0); setTimeout( function() { $("div.black-overlay").hide(); }, 200 ); $(obj).removeClass('selected'); $(obj).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-up').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-down'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); if (!$(obj).hasClass('active')){ $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').removeAttr('style'); } }); } } else { //check last selected height var lastSize = $('div.sub.last').height(); // if last has height if (lastSize > 0 ){ var currentHeight = $("div.submenu-content-" + id).height(); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).height(lastSize) $("div.submenu-content-" + id).show().animate({height : currentHeight + 30 + 'px'}); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 1}); } //else we toggle the menu else{ $("div.submenu-content-" + id).slideToggle(); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 1}); } timeoutBlackOverlay = setTimeout( function() { $("div.black-overlay").show().fadeTo(200, 0.6); }, 200 ); $(obj).addClass('selected'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); $(obj).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-down').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-up'); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(obj).data('id')).addClass('selected'); } } About About An introduction to the project's goals, history, organization, location...
In a few lines What is ITER? What will ITER do? What is Fusion? What is a Tokamak? Who is participating in ITER? When will experiments begin? History IAEA ITER Newsletter The ITER Organization ITER Members Governance Iter in France Faqs Project Milestones Legal resources Status of the Organization Independence ITER Organization-Host State Settlement of disputes Rules and regulations Use of the ITER Logo Legal Affairs mandate Visits Machine Machine One million components, ten million parts — find out more about the ITER Tokamak and its systems.
What is a TOKAMAK? The ITER TOKAMAK Magnets Vacuum Vessel Blanket Divertor Cryostat Supporting Systems Vacuum Cryogenics CODAC Remote Handling Power Supply Fuel Cycle Hot Cell Cooling Water Tritium Breeding Diagnostics External Heating Manufacturing Safety and Environment Science Science Bringing a star to Earth? Explore the science of ITER.
What is fusion? Making it work Fusion fuels Plasma heating Plasma confinement Iter goals Advantages of Fusion 60 years of progress Int'l Tokamak research After Iter Fusion Glossary Construction Construction Follow the construction of the world's largest tokamak in southern France.
Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR Assembly Assembly Assembly Overview Specialized tooling Tokamak Assembly Metrology Plant assembly Commissioning News & Media News & Media The latest photos, videos and publications from the ITER Organization.
All News Photos News in French 3D Virtual Tour ITER Newsline Videos Events ITER Podcast Press Releases Publication Centre ITER Mag archives Top Tenders ITER Directory Donate About About In a few lines In a few lines What is ITER? What will ITER do? What is Fusion? What is a Tokamak? Who is participating in ITER? When will experiments begin? History History IAEA ITER Newsletter Faqs Project Milestones The ITER Organization ITER Members Governance Iter in France Legal resources Legal resources Status of the Organization Independence ITER Organization-Host State Settlement of disputes Rules and regulations Use of the ITER Logo Legal Affairs mandate Visits Machine Machine What is a TOKAMAK? The ITER TOKAMAK The ITER TOKAMAK Magnets Vacuum Vessel Blanket Divertor Cryostat Supporting Systems Supporting Systems Vacuum Cryogenics CODAC Remote Handling Power Supply Fuel Cycle Hot Cell Cooling Water Tritium Breeding Diagnostics External Heating Manufacturing Safety and Environment Science Science What is fusion? Making it work Making it work Fusion fuels Plasma heating Plasma confinement Advantages of Fusion 60 years of progress Iter goals Int'l Tokamak research After Iter Fusion Glossary Construction Construction Projects underway Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR Assembly Assembly Assembly Overview Tokamak Assembly Plant assembly Specialized tooling Metrology Commissioning News & Media News & Media All News Photos News in French 3D Virtual Tour ITER Newsline Videos Events Press Releases Publication Centre ITER Mag archives ITER Podcast Toggle navigation Toggle navigation Francais English Jobs Tenders Faqs Contact us directory Subscribe Donate Intranet Donate...
Construction Projects underway Tokamak Complex Last pour for Tritium Building The last significant concrete pour, on Thursday 12 October, was to create a 60-centimetre-thick slab for the aedicula sitting on top of the Trititum Building. The seven-storey building is now completely framed out, from B2 basement level to Level 5 and roof structures.
12 October 2023 Download Painting inside the Tritium Building Paint work is progressing inside the Tritium Building (pictured: the vault annex at level L4). This vast space (40,000 cubic metres) will accommodate equipment for the tokamak cooling water and tritium breeding systems.
12 October 2023 Download Tritum Building: end of civil works Civil works on the seven-storey concrete Tritium Building are nearly complete and the tall cranes will soon be dismantled. Teams are working on the last level, L5, to complete all kinds of finishing works, including waterproofing.
29 August 2023 Download Game of comparison Comparing this latest general view with the one taken in January 2023 permits us to measure the progress accomplished.
29 August 2023 Download Under the Tokamak Complex Underneath the concrete slab that supports the Tokamak Complex is a vast, dimly lit space whose only features are squat, pillar-like structures called "plinths." Sandwiched between the top of the pillars and the slab above, flexible seismic pads ensure that in the event of an earthquake, the integrity of the building will be protected from sudden and strong horizontal accelerations.
01 June 2023 Download Best view One of the best views of the Tokamak Complex and the ITER Assembly Hall is from the belvedere of the Visitors Centre.
01 April 2023 Download January 2023 The Tritium Building (concrete structure, left) is now at height. To the right, the structural beams of the High Voltage Building for neutral beam power supply are in place.
20 January 2023 Download Tritium Building: nearly there We can expect a topping-out ceremony for the Tritium Building in 2023, as the last level is completed. (This tradition originating from Eastern Europe consists of placing a small tree atop a completed construction project.) 06 December 2022 Download Progress on the Tritium Building European contractors are currently pouring concrete at level 5 (L5) of the Tritium Building. This will bring the structure to full height.
06 December 2022 Download As the day ends ...
The last rays of sun illuminate the facade of the Tokamak Complex in early October 2022.
04 October 2022 Download Elevator shaft (large) When fully operational, this lift will transport the casks from ITER's ITER cask and plug remote handling system (for activated components) between the Tokamak Building to the Hot Cell facility. For the time being, a temporary cargo lift has been installed to deliver loads to the different levels of the Tokamak Building.
06 July 2022 Download Management walkthrough For a comprehensive overview of issues and progress on the worksite, senior management does a monthly "walkthrough" of all buildings. It's about keeping in touch with challenges, progress on challenges, and also the day-to-day determination of the teams.
06 July 2022 Download The importance of work performed today "It is important to properly plan and execute the commissioning of systems, of course. But also, the ability to achieve the project's objectives depends vitally on the quality of the workmanship and the decisions made in the course of the present phase." (Head of the Science & Operation Domain, Tim Luce. See more at https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/3774) 06 July 2022 Download Always impressive Walking through the ITER installation, its massive structures and complex networks, alien-looking components and dizzying vistas, is always impressive.
06 July 2022 Download Now at L4 Workers are advancing at level L4 of the Tritium Building (L5 will be the last storey). The civil works are scheduled for completion in summer 2023.
14 June 2022 Download Rising The exterior walls of the Tritium Building (level L3) are rising. Two other levels will follow: L4 and L5.
03 December 2021 Download At night The Tokamak Complex, at the heart of the construction site, is captured at night by the ITER photographer. The ITER worksite hardly ever sleeps; when employees leave their offices and head home, the night shift begins for dozens of workers and specialists.
12 November 2021 Download Pour days Concrete pouring continues on level L3 of the Tritium Building.
20 October 2021 Download Working on L3 of the Tritium Building Two levels of the Tritium Building have been erected; in this photo we can see the teams active on the basemat for L3. When it is completed, the Tritium Building will rise to the height of the concrete segment of the Tokamak Building in the background.
15 October 2021 Download White palace The pristine white of the Diagnostic Building. L3 is ready for equipment.
06 October 2021 Download Elevator shaft ITER's cask and plug remote handling system will transport components between the Tokamak Building and the Hot Cell Complex. We are looking at the elevator shaft for the lift that will service the casks at upper, equatorial and lower machine levels. © Christian Luenig (www.arbeitsblende.de) 29 September 2021 Download Readying the supports All through the Diagnostic Building, plant assembly teams are installing ceiling supports for equipment.
28 September 2021 Download Visiting the heart of ITER It is still possible to enter the Tokamak Building to view machine assembly close up. In this photo, European Union Commissioner for Energy Kadri Simson is accompanied by ITER Director-General Bernard Bigot.
17 September 2021 Download Planned completion: 2023 Work on the Tritium Building resumed this year. The final level (L5) should be completed in the spring of 2023. While most of the functions of the Tritium Building are directly linked to full-power operation at ITER, the building also hosts equipment that must be in place by First Plasma.
09 September 2021 Download Tritium Building advancing Work is underway on the L3 level of the Tritium Building. (September 2021) 03 September 2021 Download Open, for now One of the 46 nuclear doors of the Tokamak Complex, designed to create a radiation barrier. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 June 2021 Download Equipment installation In this tall gallery at the top of the Tokamak Complex (level L3), teams are installing cryolines—both horizontally and vertically (in shafts, photo). Painting has been completed at all levels.
16 June 2021 Download Non-nuclear doors European Domestic Agency contractors have 300 non-nuclear doors like these to install in the Tokamak Complex. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 17 May 2021 Download Injecteur room The heating neutral beam injectors (2) and the diagnostic neutral beam injector (1) will be located in this room of the Tokamak Complex. Power supply will arrive through the openings in the ceiling. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 14 May 2021 Download Work resumes on the Tritium Building Work has started again on the Tritium Building, one of the three structures of the Tokamak Complex. Activity is underway at the L2 level.
07 May 2021 Download Framing and pouring Just like in the Tokamak Building, several areas of the Tritium Building will require concrete walls with exceptionally dense steel reinforcement.
07 May 2021 Download Europe finalizes work inside the Tokamak Building Civil engineering and finishing works are nearly completed in the Tokamak Building (tall building, right); the last area will be painted this summer. Contractors are 80% of the way though installing 300 shielding and confinement doors. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 05 May 2021 Download Massive A corner of the Tokamak Complex, a seven-storey structure that will house not only the ITER Tokamak, but also more than 30 different plant systems that are necessary for machine operation. Photo: © Christian Luenig (www.arbeitsblende.de) 25 March 2021 Download Near the Tokamak To the right, ITER port cells leading in to the Tokamak (and sealed by massive nuclear doors); to the left, a completed gallery area, fully painted. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 26 February 2021 Download Handing over to systems installation In the lower galleries of the Tokamak Complex, where the civil works are near finalized, the rooms have been handed over to the ITER assembly teams for systems installation. Follow all systems installation news on this page: https://www.iter.org/construction/systemsplantassembly. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 February 2021 Download Standard doors There are many areas of the Tokamak Complex where standard doors are required.
08 February 2021 Download Down in the bowels of the Tokamak Complex Deep in the Tokamak Complex, European contractors are finishing civil works tasks. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 January 2021 Download Finalizing the nuclear doors Following the installation of 46 nuclear doors to seal off the port cells surrounding the ITER Tokamak, European Domestic Agency teams are progressing on the finishing work, including painting. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 December 2020 Download The Tokamak Complex is changing In the galleries around the Tokamak pit, walking in a counter clockwise direction. Parts of the Tokamak Complex are taking on a finished air. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 December 2020 Download Neutral beam cell In this large open space on the northwest side of the Tokamak Building, the bus-sized neutral beam injectors will be installed. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 December 2020 Download Special openings These special openings are designed for the neutral beam injectors. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 December 2020 Download A big job Room by room, level by level, the raw concrete of the Tokamak Complex is being covered with coats of smooth, shiny white paint. An estimated 150 tonnes of resin, primer and paint are required. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 December 2020 Download Filling penetrations One of the last construction activities is to seal the openings (or penetrations) in the walls. The penetrations must be filled while letting equipment pass. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 December 2020 Download Down into the basement The first feeder component is introduced directly into the B2 basement level of the Tokamak Building. Approximately 100 components must be introduced to build the 31 ITER magnet feeders.
11 December 2020 Download Drain tank lifted One of the tokamak cooling water tanks in the Tokamak Complex is lifted so that contractors can weld a new leak-tight anchorage system.
08 December 2020 Download Aeration HVAC ducts are delivered for the B1 (first basement) level of the Tokamak Complex.
13 November 2020 Download All clear In front of the Tokamak Complex, land has been cleared for the construction of two small buildings and a technical area. All are dedicated to the power supply of ITER's massive neutral beam injection heating system. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 09 October 2020 Download Painting time Nuclear doors, and the floors under them, are being coated with the same smooth, shiny white paint as the other areas of the Tokamak Complex. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 09 October 2020 Download A constellation of plates We can guess at the number of components that will be installed in this large room by the number of anchor plates on the walls, ceiling and floor. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 09 October 2020 Download The only circles These unusual openings are for a very specific component—the injectors of the ITER neutral beam heating system. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 09 October 2020 Download One after another Room after room in the Tokamak Complex will house the equipment needed to run the machine. The ceiling racks will hold cables and cable trays. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 09 October 2020 Download Components in the pit Looking closely, we can distinguish the metal of the cryostat lower cylinder from the painted concrete Tokamak pit. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 04 September 2020 Download In-pit welding to start Two cryostat sections are in place but not yet welded. Cryostat welding begins later this month. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 04 September 2020 Download The assembly theatre About 150 metres separates the double doors of the Assembly Hall, which open to receive components, from the Tokamak pit. All components will spend some time in the Assembly Hall for unpacking, measurement and test activities before the final lift into place. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 04 September 2020 Download 46 rather particular doors Installed all around the tokamak machine at three levels, these port cell doors double in weight (from 30 to 60 tonnes) when filled with dense, neutron-blocking concrete. The last of 46 doors was installed in June by European Domestic Agency contractors.
19 June 2020 Download First piece installed The first piece of the ITER Tokamak—the soup-dish-shaped base of the cryostat (1,250 tonnes)—was lowered into the Tokamak pit on 26 May. It fit perfectly. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 28 May 2020 Download Cladding completed Metal cladding now completely covers the crane hall of the Tokamak Building.
26 May 2020 Download Major machine assembly milestone On Tuesday 26 May, the first major machine component—the cryostat base—is lifted by overhead crane and lowered into the Tokamak assembly pit.
26 May 2020 Download Perfectly clean The machine assembly "well" is perfectly clean and ready to receive machine components. The 18 cylindrical cryostat support bearings are clearly visible, like jewels in the supporting crown.
26 May 2020 Download Final nuclear doors The last nuclear doors are delivered through a Level 1 door of the Tokamak Complex. By next month, all 46 will have been installed. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 15 May 2020 Download The Tokamak Complex The Tokamak Building now mirrors the Assembly Hall. To either side of it, the Diagnostics Building (centre) and the Tritium Building (left) are still under construction. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 15 May 2020 Download Covers off One of the last things to do at the bottom of the Tokamak pit—uncover the cryostat bearings, which until now had been hidden under thick protective wrapping.
13 May 2020 Download Match exactly The pedestal of the cryostat base will be affixed to the female lugs seen here in the wall of the bioshield (steel rectangles). To meet these interfacing pieces, the base must be positioned as it is lowered with a tolerance of +/-5 mm.
13 May 2020 Download 18 cryostat bearings A set of 18 spherical bearings, evenly spaced and deeply anchored into the "crown," will bear the full weight of the machine and, acting as ball-and-socket joints, will enable the smooth transfer of horizontal and rotational forces.
13 May 2020 Download 30 metres deep Two sets of overhead cranes (2 x 750 tonnes and 2 x 50 tonnes) will be responsible for the ballet of activity as components ready for installation are picked up in the Assembly Hall and brought to the 30-metre deep Tokamak pit. Photo: Gérard Lesénéchal 06 May 2020 Download On the pit floor Painted and cleaned, everything is nearly ready in the Tokamak pit for the first machine components. Photo: Gérard Lesénéchal 06 May 2020 Download Assembly theatre The ''assembly theatre'' is a vast space that encompasses the assembly and crane halls. In the foreground, the opening of the assembly pit; in the background (past the twin sector sub-assembly tools), the cryostat base is being groomed for the upcoming assembly operations.
04 May 2020 Download Getting ready The Tokamak pit is nearly ready for its first machine component: 18 cryostat bearings are in place on the cryostat crown, contractors are finalizing painting and cleaning, and captive components have been installed in areas that will be blocked once the cryostat base has been lowered.
02 April 2020 Download The lid is off Standing at the end of the Tokamak Building, looking over the Tokamak pit toward the Assembly Hall. The temporary lid has been removed and installation activities are about to start.
02 April 2020 Download One segment at a time The temporary lid over the assembly pit is made of 11 segments ranging in weight from 10 to over 80 tonnes.
02 April 2020 Download 11 segments in all Once the central segment have been removed, two half-moon segments remain. At 80 tonnes each, they are the heaviest elements of the lid removal operation, which took two days to complete.
02 April 2020 Download One half moon Specialists attach a pair of hoisting beams to one of the two "half-moon" segments, bringing the total weight of the load to approximately 100 tonnes.
02 April 2020 Download Last piece As the last segment of the lid is raised, it reveals a spectacular view of the 30-metre-deep assembly pit.
02 April 2020 Download Final crane path tests Totalling approximately 1,000 tonnes, these loads are travelling the way of future ITER components, and permitting the European Domestic Agency to validate ITER Council milestone #50, for crane access in the newly completed Tokamak Building.
28 March 2020 Download A delicate threshold The loads are about to cross from the Assembly Hall into the Tokamak Building. The cranes will halt at the threshold to allow the loads to be moved back and forth along the crane's yellow beams to monitor the deflection of the crane runway and that of the crane hall pillars.
28 March 2020 Download Coming next Part of the circular lid that closes the assembly pit has already been taken down, allowing a dizzying view into the 30-metre-deep concrete cylinder. The removal of the 11 segments that make up the lid is scheduled to begin on Thursday 2 April and last through the end of the work week.
28 March 2020 Download Carefully supervising The load path operation was overseen by Roberto Lanza (left, ITER Responsible Officer for cranes and crane operations) and Duco Jensen (ITER site planning coordinator), with strong support from construction coordinator Stéphane Herpin. The operation involved personnel from the Buildings Infrastructure & Power Supplies (BIPS) Project Team; Fusion for Energy contractors VFR (Vinci, Ferrovial, Razel-Bec), REEL (cranes), Dalkia, GDES, Martifer (manufacturing and installation of the crane hall), SAMT, and Nuvia; and contractors supporting both the ITER Organization and Fusion for Energy (Engage, APAVE, Energhia, Tiresia, and MOMENTUM).
28 March 2020 Download The numbers on the scale The weight of the loads appears in real time on the small screens just above the rails. Figures can vary slightly depending on the positions of the loads along the beams.
28 March 2020 Download Preparing for episode one As the European Domestic Agency puts the finishing touches on work in the Tokamak pit (painting, cleaning), ITER's Construction Management-as-Agent contractor MOMENTUM is preparing for the first episode of machine assembly: the lowering of the cryostat base.
26 March 2020 Download Getting ready At the bottom of the Tokamak pit, teams are preparing for the arrival of the cryostat base.
26 March 2020 Download Ready to paint Painting continues in the Tokamak Building crane hall.
26 March 2020 Download Late into the evening These workers, present just as Saturday turns into Sunday, are following recommended distance and personal protection measures.
26 March 2020 Download Open for assembly There is no longer a barrier separating the Assembly Hall from the Tokamak Building. In the next step, the temporary lid over the machine assembly pit will be dismantled and removed.
26 March 2020 Download Wall comes down The last piece of temporary wall is removed, creating a single-volume space for the pre-assembly and assembly of the ITER machine.
10 March 2020 Download Fully contained The volume of the crane hall (right) is now fully framed out. When the interior partition wall is removed, the buildings will form one continuous assembly space.
26 February 2020 Download Covered completely Natural light over the Tokamak pit is a thing of the past, as the last panel of metal cladding (layer one) is positioned on 25 February.
25 February 2020 Download Cladding, layer one First-level cladding is nearly complete on the Tokamak Building crane hall. At the end of construction, the building will have the same exterior treatment as the Assembly Hall.
21 February 2020 Download 100,000 embedded plates All of the equipment in the Tokamak Complex will be attached to embedded plates. These metal plates have long prongs that are inserted deep into the concrete walls for support. There are at least 100,000 of them. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 15 February 2020 Download Cryostat base: grand opening soon The huge cryostat base section will descend from above, supported by the overhead cranes as it is lowered 30 metres to the bottom of the pit.
13 February 2020 Download Interface points Female lugs on the bioshield wall will interface with male lugs on the cryostat base's pedestal rim. A high-precision drill is boring holes into one of the 18 female lugs to accommodate a steel pin.
13 February 2020 Download More doors Two nuclear doors are delivered to the ground level of the Tokamak Building. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 08 February 2020 Download 170 metres Seeing the building from this angle, it's easy to imagine the overhead cranes travelling 170 metres from the entrance of the Assembly Hall (far left) to over the Tokamak assembly pit (far right). Cladding is advancing quickly.
06 February 2020 Download Late January: progress is swift The frame of the crane hall is nearly complete and a first layer of cladding now covers the south wall and part of the roof.
30 January 2020 Download At the bottom of the pit Teams are active at the bottom of the Tokamak pit to prepare for the insertion of the first machine component: the cryostat base. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 29 January 2020 Download The mechanics under the machine The concrete crown (left) that will sit under the machine is supported by 18 radial walls (centre). 18 cryostat bearings (covered in grey) will be the interface points between the 1,250-tonne cryostat base and the crown. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 29 January 2020 Download The sun rises on the crane hall, which is nearly entirely framed out. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 27 January 2020 Download Hinges and frames Before each nuclear door can be installed, massive frames and hinges must be mounted at port cell exits. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 January 2020 Download How quickly it goes! Workers on elevated platforms install the steel framework elements of the north wall. Another four days and it will be completed.
23 January 2020 Download Capable of lifting 60 tonnes In this embedded-plate-studded galley of the Tokamak Complex, a red "leaf mounting" tool is parked. This specialized tool was created by contractor Cegelec/Sommer to move the massive port cell doors to the concrete pouring station and back to their final installation locations. It is equipped with two large holding frames that clutch the port cell door like a sandwich.© Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 January 2020 Download One step away With the Tokamak Building now topped by the steel structure of its crane hall, the main building on the ITER worksite is just a step away from its final aspect.
13 January 2020 Download A peek Evocative of a stage with black curtains, the vertical opening at the centre of this image offers a glimpse of the ongoing activity inside the adjacent Assembly Hall.
13 January 2020 Download Crane hall: framed out The complete crane hall structure—20 tall pillars and roof modules included—weighs approximately 2,000 tonnes. Contractors are currently installing the secondary steel structure (crossbars, etc), tightening bolts, and touching up paint.
08 January 2020 Download Adjusting torque In different areas of the roof structure, teams are tightening bolts and adjusting torque. First-level cladding will completely cover the structure by late February, allowing the bridge cranes to be brought into the new volume over the Tokamak pit for testing and commissioning.
08 January 2020 Download In one month Just inside the metal frame are the massive "runway beams" that will support the weight of the bridge cranes and their heavy loads. The beams are ready to receive the crane rails; installation work begins this week.
08 January 2020 Download Cladding begins The first panels of steel cladding appear on the south side of the crane hall.
19 December 2019 Download Without a hitch The last roof module is moved into position on 11 December. The complete roof structure—20 tall pillars and roof modules included—weighs approximately 2,000 tonnes.
13 December 2019 Download And a second Because the first module was lifted and installed without technical incident, European Domestic Agency contractors were able to proceed with a second lift on the same day.
04 December 2019 Download 70 metres above ground The preassembled modules are raised 70 metres overhead before being positioned on the waiting pillars. A second crawler crane (under construction at the right of the image) will be necessary for the last operations.
04 December 2019 Download First of five The five modules weigh between 62 and 78 tonnes and span a distance of 50 metres between the two rows of pillars. A giant crawler crane—with a boom spanning more than 100 metres—was put in place for the lift operation.
04 December 2019 Download First roof module The first module of the crane hall roof is lifted on 4 December, in an operation that begins at 7:00 a.m.
04 December 2019 Download Lift day On the morning of the first lift, our photographer was in position early! 04 December 2019 Download Bird's eye view The assembly of the Tokamak Building roof, seen from above. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 04 December 2019 Download Next step: the roof modules The pillars of the crane hall are in place on top of the Tokamak Building; next, five roof modules must be installed. These will be lifted from 4 December on.
03 December 2019 Download All pillars in place Two rows of pillars, ten on each side, have been installed on the top of the Tokamak Building. Approximately one-third of the way up the pillars, are the sturdy supports for the assembly crane rails.
28 November 2019 Download The golden hour Second-level pillars have risen all along the right wall of the Tokamak Building crane hall. European teams plan to pose the first roof module in December.
18 November 2019 Download 46 to install All around the tokamak are galleries full of equipment, which must be closed off by nuclear doors (photo). The teams have 46 to install. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 15 November 2019 Download On the roof French journalists stand on the top of the Tokamak Building, among the strong pillars of the roof structure, on the day that the ITER community celebrates the end of civil work on the Tokamak Building.
07 November 2019 Download Last concrete for Tokamak Building Forty-five metres above platform level, the final concrete pour of the Tokamak Building is achieved at L4 level on 7 November. Only the roof structure remains.
07 November 2019 Download First level pillars nearly installed Pillars are now aligned along both sides of the Tokamak Building rooftop and bracing bars are being installed between the pillars. A second crawler crane will be set up on the far side to help handle the heavy roof modules that will be installed between mid-December and mid-January. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 24 October 2019 Download Pillars: close up Ten on one side and ten on the other: these massive lower pillars will support the massive bridge cranes that will be used during machine assembly. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 24 October 2019 Download Imagining the wall removed The temporary wall will be removed in 2020, creating a vast open space for the transport of components between the Assembly Hall and the Tokamak pit. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 24 October 2019 Download Under the secret cap Hidden under the temporary lid at left is the 30-metre-deep machine well, where the major machine assembly activities kick off next year. The last concrete pour for the area around the central well is scheduled for early November. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 24 October 2019 Download The crane hall begins to emerge From the top of one of the worksite cranes, it is easy to imagine how the heavy lift bridge cranes will execute their back-and-forth ballet between the Assembly Hall (in black) and the Tokamak Building.
14 October 2019 Download Between two clouds Highlighted by the sun are the 10 south pillars of the crane gallery, installed at level L5 of the Tokamak Building.
14 October 2019 Download 12 pillars and counting Two rows of pillars have now appeared at the top of the ITER Tokamak Building. When 10 have been installed on each side, contractors will begin installing second-level pillars.
07 October 2019 Download 46 nuclear doors Each of the galleries immediately surrounding the machine will be sealed off by a 60-tonne nuclear door (pictured). Each one has been fitted with a personnel access door. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 September 2019 Download Filled with concrete The nuclear doors are delivered hollow, and then filled with 7.5 cubic metres of heavy concrete. Special tools have been developed to handle the 60-tonne doors and mount them on their hinges. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 September 2019 Download Elements of the roof structure The first transversal roof elements will be lifted in December. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 September 2019 Download Carefully now Twenty-four anchors in the plinth of the corbel had to be matched perfectly with 24 bolts under the pillar. A dozen specialists were on hand for the final insertion operation.
11 September 2019 Download Special shelves The shelf-like protrusions on the interior surface of the pillars will support the crane rails that must be extended out over the Tokamak pit.
11 September 2019 Download 20 pillars in all Twenty pillars (10 on either side of the Tokamak Building) will support the roof of the crane hall as well allow the overhead crane rails to be extended from the Assembly Hall into the Tokamak Building.
11 September 2019 Download Steel pillar section #1 The first crane hall pillar section is lifted on 11 September. This is the lower, 13-metre-tall section of one pillar. An upper section, 16 metres tall, will be added later.
11 September 2019 Download First crawler crane in action On 11 September, this crawler crane began lifting pillars to the top of the Tokamak Building for the metal roof of the crane hall.
05 September 2019 Download First cryostat bearing Eighteen semi-spherical bearings anchored deep in the Tokamak support crown will act like ball-and-socket joints under the pedestal of the cryostat to allow the smooth transfer of forces generated during machine operation. The first one has been installed.
04 September 2019 Download Clockwork precision for a 3.5-tonne component As a fastening system for the bearings, a steel transition piece is half embedded in the concrete crown during the first phase of pouring. Then, a high-strength top plate (3.5 tonnes of steel) is positioned on the transition piece to receive the bearings with a mechanical blocking mechanism worthy of a Swiss watch. Permitted tolerances for the different elements of the fastening system will be less the 2 mm.
04 September 2019 Download Crane hall coming To the right of the Tokamak Complex, contractors are assembling one of two crawler cranes that will be used to install the metal structure of the crane hall.
04 September 2019 Download Transfer of force through the lugs Anchored and bolted in the wall surrounding the cryostat crown, 18 of these 2.5-tonne rectangular steel pieces ("female lugs") will play a key role in transferring horizontal forces to the bioshield structure and protecting the integrity of the machine. They will match with the "male lugs" welded on the cryostat pedestal.
04 September 2019 Download The precision of a clockmaker Teams have been active all summer at the very bottom of the Tokamak pit, in preparation for the installation of the cryostat base. On top of the concrete crown, at the point of intersection with each of its 18 radial walls, contractors are installing a set of 18 metal bearings. (If you look closely you'll see that one has been installed in its socket and protected under black cloth, while—moving in a counter clockwise direction—other interfacing areas are in various stages of preparation.) 04 September 2019 Download The poster is gone A large poster of the ITER machine used to adorn the temporary wall of the Assembly Hall. It has been removed as part of the dismantling process for the wall itself.
04 September 2019 Download Major milestone ahead For years, crane #1 has supported activities in the Tokamak Building from its central location, anchored at the bottom of the machine well. Before the end of the year it will be dismantled to allow for the installation of the metal walls and roof of the crane hall. Once the building has a roof, the temporary lid of the bioshield can be removed and the project will have reached a major milestone on the road to the official start of machine assembly.
04 September 2019 Download A wall in white A thick coat of white paint has changed the look of the north wall, which stands between the Tokamak and Tritium buildings.
04 September 2019 Download Lid still in place As long as the Tokamak Building is open to the sky, a temporary lid will remain in place to protect the Tokamak pit from the weather. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 August 2019 Download Neutral beam cells This particular area of L3 of the Tokamak Building is reserved for the bus-sized injectors of the heating and diagnostic neutral beam systems. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 August 2019 Download Meanwhile, on the ground ...
Teams have started to assemble the Tokamak Building roof structure from metal beams delivered over the summer. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 August 2019 Download Up at the top The very top of the Tokamak Building is where pillars will soon be installed for the roof structure. Material is arriving. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 August 2019 Download A privileged view A whole world exists up at Level 4 of the Tokamak Building—one with a fantastic view of the surrounding countryside ... © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 August 2019 Download Future equipment All around the top of the bioshield are embedded plates ready to receive equipment. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 August 2019 Download Tokamak Building: final concrete this year European contractors are preparing the last concrete pours of the Tokamak Building (foreground). The work should be completed in November. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 August 2019 Download Civil works underway since 2014 The civil works of the Tokamak Complex fall under the TB03 contract signed between the European Domestic Agency and the VFR consortium (Vinci, Ferrovial, Razel Bec). Their colours are displayed at right. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 August 2019 Download Coming in At the bottom of the Tokamak pit, different openings allow for the arrival of electricity, cryogens and instrumentation. In the picture, placeholders have been pre-positioned. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 12 July 2019 Download Elements of the crane hall The pillars of the future crane hall are arriving on site. They will support the metal roof of the Tokamak Building. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 12 July 2019 Download The pit, all aglow Raw concrete in the Tokamak assembly pit has given way to the smooth shiny surface of white paint. Teams have been working to complete the job in this 25,000 cubic-metre space since early March; now only finishing touches remain.
03 July 2019 Download Tokamak-sur-mer At the height of the heat wave, in late June, surface temperature on the ITER worksite climbed to the 50 °C range. To continue work—and protect workers—a series of measures was implemented: the morning shifts began earlier, longer pauses were granted, cool mist vaporizers were installed, and... parasols made an appearance.
30 June 2019 Download Progress in mid-June 2019 The European Domestic Agency in concentrating construction resources on the central Tokamak Building. The metal crane hall is arriving in sections, for assembly on the concrete walls beginning in September. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche¶ 18 June 2019 Download Roof frame on its way European construction contractors are getting ready to install the metal frame of the crane hall—the structure that will complete the central Tokamak Building. The structure will "prolong" the Assembly Hall. In this photo we can see where it will sit (on the right, on top of the white corbel, and on the left, atop pillars). Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 17 June 2019 Download Through the eyes of a crane operator Sitting in his cabin 80 metres above the ground, Alex Dumonteil enjoys a most spectacular view of the ITER construction site.
17 June 2019 Download A site that never sleeps An average of 300 trucks pass through the gates of the ITER worksite every day. Ongoing construction requires a huge amount of material—rebar to reinforce the concrete, huge formwork panels, steel columns, backfill soil, pipes by the kilometre, paint ... All the indispensable supplies for one of the world's biggest construction sites.
13 June 2019 Download Amid field and forest ITER is an outpost of activity in an otherwise sparsely populated region. The site was cleared more than a decade ago on land belonging to the CEA Cadarache research centre in a bend of the Durance River Valley.
12 June 2019 Download Massive concrete structure In the five years since the completion of the Tokamak Complex foundations, the Tokamak Building has risen seven levels. Work is about to start on the metal frame that will complete the structure.
12 June 2019 Download Crane hall columns The steel pillars for the crane hall are beginning to arrive on site. Pictured is the lower segment of one pillar, which will be installed directly on the Tokamak Building.
20 May 2019 Download What they saw Members of the public were treated to this view of the Tokamak Pit on 18 May. Openings are sealed off and a first coat of primer has been applied after sandblasting and other preparatory activities.
18 May 2019 Download Into the concrete maze Open Doors Day visitors are taken to look into the Tokamak Pit through some of the port cell openings at L1 level. The openings were quickly sealed off again after the event, so that painting can continue.
18 May 2019 Download Generation What is experimental today could be the daily reality of tomorrow. For these two youngsters sitting on a rock in front of the spectacular outline of the ITER Tokamak Complex and Assembly Hall, fusion-generated electricity will be part of everyday life.
Download Jewel box The concrete "box" for the machine is ready, and the roof structure will be installed by the end of the year. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 10 May 2019 Download Looks like a balcony More than 80 metres long and 3.2 metres wide at the top, the corbel is a massive balcony-like structure. It is designed to carry the weight of the crane hall's structure (1,800 tonnes) and to withstand considerable vertical and lateral forces transmitted by the movements of the travelling cranes.
06 May 2019 Download Preparing for the crane hall At the top of the "corbel," the anchoring system for each steel pillar is designed to withstand vertical compression loads in excess of 150 tonnes and a ''moment'' (lateral acceleration) of 220 tonnes per metre.
06 May 2019 Download An unusual angle The tallest concrete of the Tokamak Building offers a spectacular and unusual viewpoint for works underway around the central Tokamak Pit.
02 May 2019 Download A "corbel" for the crane hall This 80-metre long, 3.2-metre-wide protruding element (painted in white) is a "corbel" that will support steel pillars for the future crane hall.
02 May 2019 Download Art in the Tokamak Pit Italian artist Michela Meneguzzi was at ITER in April for the celebration of "500 Years of Innovation: From Da Vinci to ITER." In a few hours, she was able to capture and render the colosseum-like ambiance of the Tokamak Pit in the style of Leonardo da Vinci.
15 April 2019 Download Giant power outlets for a giant appliance These circular openings in the rebar at L3 level of the Tokamak Building are more than 3 metres in diameter each. They will allow the high-voltage bushings of the neutral beam system to deliver electrical power, cooling, and other services such as diagnostics to the injectors below.
08 April 2019 Download Painting to start soon 30 tonnes of abrasive sand projected with high pressure on the inside wall of the Tokamak Pit have created the rough surface that optimizes nuclear paint adherence. The application of decontaminable "nuclear paint" will begin as soon as hot air blowers have brought the vast volume of the Pit (25,000 m³) to the required temperature of ~20 °C.
05 April 2019 Download First pillars for crane hall The first metal pillars for the upper floors of the Tokamak Building (the crane hall) have arrived on site, shipped by European supplier Martifer. Photo: F4E 02 April 2019 Download Final concrete pours In the Tokamak Building, contractors are preparing to pour the last concrete slabs that will cover the open galleries to the left and right of the machine well.
29 March 2019 Download Pillars to rise By summer, the first metal pillars will be rising for the Tokamak Crane Hall. The first massive machine component—the cryostat base—is schedule for installation in March 2020.
29 March 2019 Download First pillar supports European contractors are installing massive support pieces for the pillars of the Crane Hall. The first examples can be seen by visually tracing a line that extends from the wall of the Assembly Hall (right side) to the end of the Tokamak Building.
29 March 2019 Download Progress Photo taken from the roof of the ITER Headquarters building.
21 March 2019 Download Spring on the ITER platform The Tokamak Complex, with a cut-out in the centre for machine assembly. Large cranes will begin travelling from the Assembly Hall over the Tokamak Pit (centre) with their heavy component loads in one year—March 2020.
21 March 2019 Download Tokamak Complex Progress in Tokamak Complex construction. (Photo dated 21 March) 21 March 2019 Download One last angle The Tokamak Building has reached its maximum height ... in terms of concrete that is. The tallest corner in this image represents the last concrete level of the building that will house the ITER machine. Above that, a steel structure will enclose the area used by the overhead cranes as they deliver their component loads to the Tokamak Pit.
15 March 2019 Download Directly above Looking straight down into the Tokamak Building, with the capped Tokamak Pit in the centre. Materials are lowered by crane through the openings.
15 February 2019 Download Door frames This welder is working on the installation of one of the Tokamak Building's 46 nuclear doors.
14 February 2019 Download Preparing for painting The port cells have been closed off by temporary "curtains" in order to prepare the Tokamak Pit for painting.
12 February 2019 Download A VIP door Between two very different worlds—the concrete labyrinth of the Tokamak Building and the vast open volume of the Assembly Hall—this small door has been created to facilitate VIP visits.
18 January 2019 Download Honouring the crown mockup Replicating a 40-degree section of the Tokamak crown—a challenging structure characterized by unique geometry, high-density steel reinforcement and high-performance concrete—this mockup was built on site to demonstrate crown constructability. Now that its mission has been fulfilled, the teams are leaving a trace of their participation by "signing" the work.
17 January 2019 Download Filming on site Dozens of international media teams film on site at ITER every year. This group has a slightly different project—preparing a human resources video in Russian to attract the best candidates to ITER positions.
14 January 2019 Download All painted in white Now painted in white, the first level of the Diagnostic Building is ready for handover to contractors for the beginning of systems installation. The embedded plates visible on all surfaces will allow contractors to attach the supports required for installing plant systems.
14 December 2018 Download Lower galleries This opening in the 3.5-metre-thick bioshield was specially designed to house the part of the feeder that crosses through the bioshield and cryostat—the feedthrough. Thirty-one feeders in all will find their way through galleries like this to reach the ITER magnets.
06 December 2018 Download Installed! Into the slim opening of the cryostat crown: a break in the concrete had been left by building contractors for the installation of the cryostat feedthrough for poloidal field coil #4. The operation was successfully carried out on 6 December.
06 December 2018 Download A covered well The temporary lid on the bioshield prevents us from seeing 30 metres down onto the floor of the Tokamak Complex, where the concrete crown and radial walls are in place. In 2019, 18 steel bearings will be installed in a ring to prepare for the first big lift of ITER assembly—the lowering of the cryostat base.
06 December 2018 Download "As installed" At the bottom of the machine assembly pit, the first metal component has been inserted into its bay. Metrologists are recording its "as-installed" position, as this component will be assembled with two other sub-assemblies to form the full magnet feeder for poloidal field coil #4. Thirty-one feeders in all will deliver electricity, cryogens and instruments to the ITER magnets.
06 December 2018 Download Looking over the wall Standing now on the tall north-facing wall of the Tokamak Building, the ITER photographer is able to capture all of the activities going on around the machine well at L3 level. The space in these outlying galleries will be completely filled with equipment and systems.
29 November 2018 Download An unusual angle The Tokamak Building, seen rising alongside the metal-clad Assembly Hall. On the other side of this north-facing wall is the circular well where the machine will be assembled. European contractors are working to close up the building over the Tokamak Pit in time for heavy assembly works to begin in March 2020.
29 November 2018 Download As the year ends It was a year of major progress, as the bioshield and the cryostat crown—both strategic structures—were completed. The walls of the Tokamak Complex are rising and, all around, equipment is being moved into the plant system buildings.
29 November 2018 Download Lifelines Feeders will reach the magnets by either crossing through the lower level of the bioshield—passing under the machine—or through the top level, passing over.
27 November 2018 Download First of many The feeder array for the ITER magnets is composed of over 100 main components. This one was scheduled for delivery ahead of the others because of its particular shape and its installation configuration at the lower level of the Tokamak Pit.
26 November 2018 Download Through the opening The magnet feeder component passes through one of the openings of the temporary bioshield lid. This lid will remain in place until the Tokamak Building roof is completed.
26 November 2018 Download The first one The cryostat feedthrough begins its 30-metre descent—the first metal component of the ITER machine to enter this space.
26 November 2018 Download Close to home now A quick halt near the bioshield, up at the top of the Tokamak Complex, as the team organizes the equipment for the final lift.
26 November 2018 Download Up it goes The 10-metre, 6.6-tonne component (part of a magnet feeder for poloidal field coil #4) is slowly lifted up and over the wall of the Tokamak Complex, to be posed near the top of the ITER bioshield. From there, it will be lowered into the pit.
26 November 2018 Download Operation underway The Sun had just set on the ITER worksite when the cryostat feedthrough for poloidal field coil #4—a big, shiny stainless-steel pipe bent at a 90° angle—was slowly lifted from the Hot Cell zone to be deposited on the third level of the Tokamak Building.
26 November 2018 Download Handling frame procured in Korea In light grey, a special handling frame that was designed and procured by the Korean Domestic Agency specifically for this operation.
26 November 2018 Download Tests completed The first metallic component to be installed in the machine pit—a feeder component—had been delivered by China for testing to the Magnet Infrastructure Facilities for ITER (MIFI), next door on the CEA site, one year ago. On 26 November, it was positioned outside of the Tokamak Complex for lifting.
26 November 2018 Download First nuclear door installed This 60-tonne nuclear door was set into place in November—the first of 46 to be installed at the openings of port cells leading to the Tokamak. All went well, as the dedicated mounting tool successfully transferred the weight of the door to the heavy duty hinges.
15 November 2018 Download Success A remote-controlled camera positioned above helped operators to align the door with its hinges exactly. Representatives of the ITER Organization, the European consortium VFR, and sub-contractor Cegelec/Sommer were all present for this first door installation operation 15 November 2018 Download Selfies in front of the Tokamak Complex Some 135 young "doctors in fusion"—PhD students specializing in fusion science and technology in Europe—were on site in November for a three-day event organized by FuseNet and the ITER Organization. A perfect occasion for selfies ...
14 November 2018 Download First machine component in November This six-tonne metal component—part of a magnet feeder—will be the first piece of the machine to be lowered into the Tokamak Pit. Installation activities will take place in the third week of November.
12 November 2018 Download Delivering doors One of 46 nuclear doors is lowered by crane into the Tokamak Building. Photo courtesy of Thomas Body, IPP.
08 November 2018 Download Like a leaf This "leaf mounting tool" has been specially conceived to manoeuvre the nuclear doors that will seal off the 46 individual galleries (port cells) that spoke off from the machine pit. The doors weigh 30 tonnes on delivery, and 30 more after they have been filled with concrete.
20 October 2018 Download Solid frames At the end of each nine-metre port cell gallery, teams are creating frames to receive heavy nuclear doors. Filled with heavy concrete, the doors will play a role in shielding workers and the environment from fusion-generated radiation.
20 October 2018 Download 46 port cells Extending out radially from the concrete bioshield—like so many spokes around a central hub—are nine-metre-long chambers called port cells. The port cells will accommodate heating pipes, electricity cables, diagnostic lines and maintenance systems as they pass through to the vacuum vessel from outlying galleries.
19 October 2018 Download Perfectly planned points A vast network of fiducial target nests installed on the concrete surfaces of the bioshield, port cells and galleries will provide the reference datum for the dimensional control and alignment of machine components and plant systems. European contractors are in the process of installing approximately 2,000 of them. Photo: F4E 15 October 2018 Download All kinds of shapes Seen from the main ITER office building, the facade of the Tokamak Complex is changing at a fast pace. The column of openings to the left shows where the cask and plug robotic system will move components between the Hot Cell Facility and the port openings at different levels of the machine. The four circular openings will allow the passage of the high voltage transmission lines for the neutral beam systems (diagnostic neutral beam far left, neutral beam heating three on right).
08 October 2018 Download In the driver's seat The ITER Organization is based in this five-storey, 215-metre-long building in Saint Paul-lez-Durance, France. Through the bridge that connects the building to the construction worksite, machine operators will be able to pass directly on to the Control Room.
08 October 2018 Download Boomtown From the C5 crane, we can see a small town booming with activity: to the left, the 60-metre-high Assembly Hall and the circular bioshield ressembling a jewel in its box; to the right, part of the industrial infrastructure (power conversion, cryoplant, electrical switchyard) that will support machine operations.
08 October 2018 Download Intricate webs of rebar The nuclear concrete structure around the ITER machine will contain 30,000 tonnes of rebar and 150,000 m³ of concrete. The densest, thickest and most intricate rebar arrangements are located under the machine, in the concrete floor (basement), the recently completed crown, and the crown's radial walls.
08 October 2018 Download On the critical path The ITER Organization and the seven Domestic Agencies are working to very detailed and closely monitored schedules to reach First Plasma in 2025. Project control metrics show that 57 percent of total First Plasma work scope has been completed (a figure that includes design activities, component manufacturing, building construction, shipping and delivery, assembly and installation). In March 2020 the Tokamak Building will have a roof and the first limited crane access will be possible between the Assembly Hall and the machine assembly pit.
08 October 2018 Download In support of Some 30 plant systems will be installed to support the machine. On the one-kilometre-long ITER construction platform, infrastructure and buildings rose in 2018 for cryogenics (second from left), magnet power supply (twin buildings in centre), power distribution and heat rejection (not pictured).
08 October 2018 Download Peeking in Looking across the 30-metre-wide assembly arena for the ITER machine.
03 October 2018 Download Circles of support 800 tonnes of concrete and 224 tonnes of steel went into the concrete structure (circular and radial walls) that will support the combined mass of the machine and the enveloping cryostat. The realization opens the way to machine assembly.
06 September 2018 Download The crown ... unveiled Under the 23,000-tonne machine a crown with 18 points will be hidden. The crown was completed in four pours over four months. Only one small opening remains in the circular wall for the passage of a magnet feeder.
06 September 2018 Download Waiting on the first piece Looking straight up through the machine "well" where an opening in the temporary roof will allow the first machine component to be introduced in December. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 05 September 2018 Download Room for the bend The first machine element to be installed in the pit is an elbow-shaped feeder component. It will be slid into place through this break in the crown. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 05 September 2018 Download Doors delivered Once filled with concrete this 30-tonne nuclear door will weigh 60 tonnes. Forty-six units have been ordered to close off the 46 port cells that surround the central bioshield like spokes. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 05 September 2018 Download Door operation Here is one of the nine-metre-long port galleries surrounding the Tokamak Pit that will be closed off by a nuclear door. In this photo we see the start of the door frame as well as the bespoke tool designed for lifting and handling the 60-tonne doors. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 05 September 2018 Download Third building The Tritium Building (centre) is rising more slowly than the rest of the Tokamak Complex because it is not on the "critical path" to machine assembly. The gap around the building shows how the Tokamak Complex sits inside a concrete box on anti-seismic foundations. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 August 2018 Download From the corner Visible from this angle are the two basement levels of the Tokamak Complex. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 22 August 2018 Download Large tanks installed at B2 level In August, seven tanks were introduced through the roof of the drain tank room at B2 (lower basement) level.
16 August 2018 Download Standing tall This tall tank for the Tokamak cooling water system had to be raised from its horizontal storage position before it could be lifted by crane up and into the Tokamak Complex.
16 August 2018 Download Room ready Painting and finishing works in the drain tank room were finalized before the tank installation. It only remains to now close the roof opening.
16 August 2018 Download Approaching destination One of the Tokamak cooling water system drain tanks is transported from temporary storage to the lifting point outside of the Tokamak Complex. One after another, the tanks were lowered through an opening preserved in the ceiling of the drain tank room.
16 August 2018 Download Big doings In one of the most spectacular installation activities performed yet in the Tokamak Complex, three drain tanks and four vapour suppression tanks were installed during the week of 14 August—some 600 tonnes of equipment in all.
16 August 2018 Download Standing room only Once a cavernous open space, the drain tank room is now completely filled by the seven tanks. The space above the smallest tank, in the middle, will be taken up by a mezzanine supporting piping, pumps and exchangers for the vacuum vessel's primary heat transfer system.
16 August 2018 Download Skidding on air pads Moving components in the 100-tonne range does not require tremendous force ... provided that the loads are placed on air pads. Once deposited on the floor, each tank (or pair of tanks) was gently drawn into its final position by manually operated cables anchored in the walls.
16 August 2018 Download A pair The first vapour suppression tank has been deposited and a second is being lowered through the opening in the ceiling. Once paired (one on top of the other) they will be moved to the side to make room for the next delivery.
16 August 2018 Download The Tokamak Building in July The red-and-white crane beam spins slowly over the capped bioshield in late July. Down below, teams are continuing to pour concrete for the crown wall; outside, at level 3, they are laying a special type of "neutron-absorbing" borated concrete.
26 July 2018 Download Diagnostics Building With the last work on the roof of the three-storey Diagnostics Building, the building will be completely framed out. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 25 July 2018 Download Building rising The bioshield is 30 metres deep; only the top third appears above the concrete of the Tokamak Building. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 25 July 2018 Download In July, by drone Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 24 July 2018 Download Circular? The bioshield is not quite the circular structure we often describe, but is rather built from 18 plane surfaces, or facets. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 24 July 2018 Download Going up The concrete "box" is rising around the bioshield. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 24 July 2018 Download From above The Tokamak Building, photographed from a drone. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 24 July 2018 Download Space reservations Circular openings in the exterior walls are being reserved for the high voltage transmission lines that will feed power to the neutral beam injectors. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 24 July 2018 Download Covered The temporary roof prevents us from looking down into the 30-metre-deep "well" formed by the bioshield. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 23 July 2018 Download DCIM\100MEDIA\DJI_0262.JPG At the far end of the Tokamak "pit" activities have started on the L1 and L2 levels of the ITER bioshield. © EJF Riche 23 July 2018 Download Diagnostics roof Successive concrete pours are taking place on the roof of the Diagnostics Building. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 23 July 2018 Download A small Sun on Earth The jewel box is ready, now for the assembly of the jewel. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 23 July 2018 Download Growing The Tokamak Building (centre) will rise as tall as the Assembly Building when finished. That's 60 metres. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 23 July 2018 Download In late July In this central arena of the construction site, teams are active three shifts a day—two full work shifts and a third, at night, dedicated to moving scaffolding and formwork in preparation for the next day's tasks. Work will continue through the traditional August holiday in France.
23 July 2018 Download Full steam ahead Responsible for civil engineering and construction, the European Domestic Agency is working to meet an important date on the ITER calendar—March 2020, when the first limited crane access between the Assembly Hall and the Tokamak Building is needed for major installation activities.
20 July 2018 Download Inside looking out Most of the openings of the bioshield are 4 x 4 metres, Near the top, though, the penetrations change shape.
19 July 2018 Download At the bottom The concrete "crown" will support the machine from below and transfer forces generated during operation to the massive bioshield and the ground. The cryostat base—the first major "piece" in the assembly puzzle of the ITER machine—will "sit" on this wall, with the deep bottom of the base occupying the inner circle while the outer pedestal rim will be supported by the wall and also on the "lip" of concrete now hidden by rails for the circular crane.
19 July 2018 Download Crown emerging At the bottom of the Tokamak Pit, the crown circle and radial walls are being poured in segments. A third pour is planned later this month.
18 July 2018 Download A peculiar chamber In the bowels of the Tokamak Building the drain tank room was designed to house seven water storage tanks required for the operation of the machine's cooling water and vacuum vessel pressure suppression systems.
18 July 2018 Download A storm is brewing The scene changes when the clouds roll in ...
16 July 2018 Download Looking through a "window" in the bioshield The United States Department of Energy head, Secretary Rick Perry, visits ITER on 11 July as part of a US review of ITER Project progress.
11 July 2018 Download Thinking ahead to machine assembly This wall going up on one side of the bioshield will support the crane rails that will be extended out from the Assembly Hall. A similar wall will be built on the opposite side.
10 July 2018 Download Bullseye? Two perfectly circular structures, looking a lot like archery targets, have been installed on the west-facing wall of the Tokamak Complex. They mark the location of circular openings in the concrete for the passage of electrical cables.
09 July 2018 Download Levels 1, 2 and 3 The Tokamak Complex is evolving rapidly, as the Tritium, Tokamak and Diagnostic buildings have risen to L1, L2 and L3 levels respectively.
05 July 2018 Download 2,000 workers There is activity on the worksite night and day, as nearly 2,000 workers participate in ITER construction in two shifts.
03 July 2018 Download A last check A test is underway to verify if the concrete that is about to be used to pour the radial walls and crown at the bottom of the machine well has the required fluidity characteristics.
12 June 2018 Download A midnight pour The first plot of the Tokamak "crown" is poured on 22 May. The crown will support the combined mass of the Tokamak and its encasing cryostat (23,000 tonnes) while transferring the forces and stresses generated during plasma operation to the ground.
22 May 2018 Download A touch of colour The ITER construction site on a stormy day, with a bit of added colour.
04 May 2018 Download Under the lid Under the lid of the ITER bioshield, teams are preparing to pour the first segment of the cryostat crown. The crown is a concrete wall that will support the base of the cryostat. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 April 2018 Download By drone A drone snapped this shot as it flew over the tallest cranes on site. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 April 2018 Download Pouring to start on cryostat crown in May Down on the floor of the Tokamak Pit the steel reinforcement for about one-fourth of the crown has been set into place. Pouring will start in May.
23 April 2018 Download 18 "spokes" 18 radial walls will transfer loads from the cryostat crown to the bioshield.
23 April 2018 Download Openings for deliveries Two rectangular openings in the lid allow the equipment needed for the construction of the radial walls (formwork, rebar, etc.) to be delivered to the floor of the amphitheatre and dispatched by the circular crane visible on the right of this image.
22 April 2018 Download A path for the loads Connected to the dense rebar of the radial wall, this 3.5-tonne "steel transition piece" provides a pathway for the transfer and distribution of the loads to the surrounding concrete structure.
22 April 2018 Download Fire mesh A "fire mesh" is being welded to the outer rebar of each radial wall. The mesh will sit just under the "skin" (15 to 20 millimetres) of the concrete surface and prevent spalling (splintering) in the case of fire.
22 April 2018 Download Drain tank room A steel-lined drain tank room in the bowels of the Tokamak Complex. Seven steel tanks will be introduced through the roof of the room for the storage of Tokamak cooling water.
10 April 2018 Download Crown rebar, shaping up The first pour for the concrete crown that will be situated under the cryostat base is scheduled for early May. The rebar in this part of the Tokamak Complex is particularly dense.
10 April 2018 Download Red tubes? To prepare for the first pour of the cryostat crown, teams are integrating 500 metres of cooling tubes. The temperature of the concrete during the hardening process will be regulated and homogenized by cooling water circulating inside these tubes and monitored by sensors distributed throughout the structure.
10 April 2018 Download Components through the top Two rectangular openings in the bioshield lid will allow rebar and formwork to be delivered to the lower region, where work is underway on the "crown" that will support the cryostat. The first machine component will be introduced through these openings in the autumn.
09 April 2018 Download Additional space To the left of the ITER Headquarters building, additional office space will soon be made available to ITER Organization staff and direct contractors, bringing the total capacity of this main office area to approximately 1,250 people.
09 April 2018 Download Looking north From 70 metres above the worksite, the "box" of the Tokamak Building stands out clearly, with the machine well at its centre. The Diagnostics Building (at the bottom of the frame) and the Tritium Building (beyond the bioshied) complete the Tokamak Complex, which will be fully closed over in 2020.
09 April 2018 Download Vertical tanks visible Looking south across the ITER platform a new feature has emerged: the vertical storage tanks that have been installed along the cryoplant at left.
09 April 2018 Download A concrete fortress Here's one path to entering the Tokamak Complex by foot. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 27 March 2018 Download 30-metre structure The bioshield used to be visible from top to bottom; now, the building is catching up and we can only see the top third. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 27 March 2018 Download Bioshield completed The concrete well for the Tokamak is now complete and the first installation activities can start on the inside. An inital group of "metrology nests" have been installed on the bioshield walls for alignment purposes. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 27 March 2018 Download The House of the Tokamak is rising The status of Tokamak Complex construction in mid-March. The elevator shaft for the "cask and plug" remote maintenance system stands out at left.
19 March 2018 Download Reserved for the machine The ITER machine will be assembled here, in this 30-metre-tall "Tokamak Pit." 13 March 2018 Download Important work From both a structural and safety perspective, the crown and its radial walls are one of the most strategic parts of the ITER installation. They should be finalized by the end of the summer.
13 March 2018 Download 30 metres down At the bottom of the "pit" work is underway on the 18 radial walls that will transfer forces from the cryostat crown to the thick bioshield.
13 March 2018 Download A pair of able hands A gantry crane (in yellow) covers the complete circle of the "pit" to deliver the heavy steel transition pieces (3 tonnes) that are on top of each wall.
13 March 2018 Download Protection From its position at the top of the bioshield, the lid creates a protected work space below.
13 March 2018 Download Approximately 200 tonnes When a steel rim is added to fill in the gap around the lid, the structure will weigh approximately 200 tonnes.
13 March 2018 Download Some trimming to do As the cables are pulled up, technicians on each platform cut away the excess.
09 March 2018 Download Blue and yellow Participants to the lifting operation stand in front of the "Fusion for Energy" flag on the worksite. "Fusion for Energy" is another name for the European Domestic Agency for ITER, which has been charged with the construction of all site buildings and infrastructure.
09 March 2018 Download A forest of steel and concrete The view of the French countryside is becoming spectacular, up at the top of the Tokamak Complex works.
09 March 2018 Download Rising The lid has already been lifted 1 metre and all is proceeding smoothly.
09 March 2018 Download Way down below Down in the basement of the Tokamak Complex, teams consult ...
09 March 2018 Download Lift operation underway The black cables are slowly lifting the temporary lid—or floor, depending on your perspective. Until the Tokamak Complex is completed, the lid will remain at the top of the bioshield.
09 March 2018 Download Balancing job Before allowing the eight hydraulic jacks to begin pulling, operators performed laser measurements to verify that the lid was in a perfectly horizontal position. If for any reason one jack failed, the lid would not tilt more than one millimetre.
09 March 2018 Download 8 hands To lift the 150-tonne lid, eight hydraulic jacks were positioned on eight evenly spaced metallic structures.
09 March 2018 Download The scale The worker in yellow standing on the lid gives a sense of perspective. The lid is 30 metres in diameter.
09 March 2018 Download A special kind of elevator The two gaping doors visible in the wall of the Tokamak Building are reserved for the cask and plug remote handling system. Bus-size containers will travel through these openings between the Tokamak and the Hot Cell, carrying components for refurbishment or replacement.
26 February 2018 Download Higher still This wall behind the bioshield is part of the last storey (L4/L5) of the Tritium Building. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 February 2018 Download Tokamak Complex construction: a guide A cutaway of the Tokamak Complex, seen from the perspective of someone standing in ITER Headquarters. Note the floating foundation contained within retaining walls and the central machine assembly well formed by the bioshield.
15 February 2018 Download A finished structure Peeking through the columns at levels 1 (round penetrations), 2 (square penetrations) and 3/4 of the bioshield. Two basement levels are hidden from view. The worker in yellow gives a sense of scale.
07 February 2018 Download Standing room only Each level of the Tokamak Building will be completely filled with plant equipment and systems supporting operation. Here, workers are walking at L2 level.
07 February 2018 Download The golden hour The Tokamak Complex and Assembly Hall, framed by a half dozen tall cranes, are painted pink and gold in the late afternoon sun.
02 February 2018 Download L4 exposed The top level of the bioshield has been poured and the scaffolding is coming down. There are fewer penetrations at this level. Photo: ENGAGE 29 January 2018 Download Tanks below This steel-lined basement room will house water tanks for the Tokamak's cooling water and pressure suppression systems. The tanks will be introduced through the roof.
27 January 2018 Download Last level of bioshield In January, the last plot of the bioshield level 4 was poured. The structure rises 30 metres from the basement (B2) level to the top (L4).
19 January 2018 Download Lid to be moved The temporary "lid" that is currently positioned at mid-height of the bioshield will be raised to the top to act as a roof. (A recess in the concrete shows where the lid will rest.) 19 January 2018 Download Neutral beam cell area These columns going up in the foreground will support the roof of the neutral beam area. Large bus-sized injectors will be positioned in this space with access to the Tokamak through the round/oval windows visible in this photo.
19 January 2018 Download Soon to be capped Once the bioshield has been capped with a temporary lid, work can proceed safely below. One of the upcoming tasks to be carried out is the positioning of "topographic benchmarks" to serve as guides in the installation of the cryostat sections.
19 January 2018 Download Interior partitions Formwork is in place and pouring is underway for one of the inner walls at L1 level.
19 January 2018 Download Which way? A sign on the worksite indicates the two closest villages to ITER--Saint Paul-lez-Durance and Vinon-sur-Verdon. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 16 January 2018 Download Worker numbers in January Over 1,800 workers in two shifts are active on the ITER worksite. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 16 January 2018 Download Formwork comes off The concrete has dried and the formwork panels can be removed one by one. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 16 January 2018 Download Through to the basement Looking down through a temporary lid to the basement levels of the bioshield. This lid will soon be moved to the top of the structure. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 16 January 2018 Download Final check Before the final pour, this engineer is verifying that the penetrations have been marked out as planned. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 16 January 2018 Download At the very top Setting up the last pour of the bioshield, level 3/4. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 16 January 2018 Download Down under Space has been cleared below for work on the cryostat crown and radial walls. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 16 January 2018 Download A river of anchor plates In this area just outside of the bioshield, embedded plates are planned where equipment needs to be attached; that is, everywhere. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 16 January 2018 Download Moving up From platform level, it's getting harder to see into the Tokamak Complex. In the foreground, the ITER Diagnostics Building. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 16 January 2018 Download In a cavern For the moment the two lower levels of the bioshield are closed off. Soon, the lid will be repositioned at the top of the structure and workers will have unrestricted access to the entire volume of the Tokamak Pit.
12 January 2018 Download The flying buttresses of ITER Radial walls will permit the machine's support structure to transfer some of the "force" experienced during machine operation to the bioshield wall and Tokamak Building basemat.
12 January 2018 Download Starting on the crown In the bottom of the Tokamak Pit, a concrete crown will support the base of the cryostat. After realizing a full-size mockup to validate constructability, workers are now carrying out the first steps.
12 January 2018 Download Crown and radial walls underway One of the most strategic parts of ITER construction, the crown and radial walls necessitate the densest, thickest and most intricate rebar arrangements of the entire installation. This machine support structure should be finalized by the end of the summer.
12 January 2018 Download Helping to distribute the loads Workers are busy installing the steel reinforcement for each radial wall: thick rebar (up to 50 millimetres in diameter) arranged in a complex geometry, and massive steel transition pieces (3 tonnes each) that will transfer and distribute the loads to the concrete civil work.
12 January 2018 Download Explaining the space Around the "box" of the Tokamak Complex, there is a two-metre gap. This allows the Complex to move as a monolithic structure in the case of an earthquake. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 December 2017 Download Space reserved for Hot Cell Standing where the Hot Cell Facility will one day be erected, looking toward the openings of the cask and plug transporter. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 December 2017 Download Tokamak Complex advances Outside of the bioshield, workers are creating the walls and columns of the Tritium, Tokamak, and Diagnostics buildings. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 December 2017 Download Bioshield: last steps Teams are pouring the last segments of the circular bioshield, which now stands 30 metres tall. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 December 2017 Download Late 2017 The ITER worksite, seen by drone in late 2017. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 20 December 2017 Download Last 2017 photo At the close of 2017, the last levels of the bioshield (L3 and L4) have been framed out and concrete pouring is underway. Work is also proceeding at level 3 (L3) of the Diagnostics Building (foreground).
04 December 2017 Download A model? A few special effects and the vast ITER construction project seems to be transformed into a tiny model ... Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 04 December 2017 Download Future assembly arena Machine components will be lowered into the circular bioshield during the assembly phase. The beams of a massive assembly tool will be supported on its thick walls as the 440-tonne vacuum vessel sectors are aligned and welded "in pit." Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 04 December 2017 Download A wintery scene A light dusting of snow graces the ITER worksite in December 2017. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 04 December 2017 Download The bioshield In the space of one year, the Tokamak bioshield has risen 20 metres. The circular structure, as thick as 3.2 metres in some areas, is designed to protect workers and the environment from radiation generated by the fusion reaction. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 04 December 2017 Download For diagnostic systems The Diagnostics Building is actually five floors (two basement and three above-ground levels). It has reached its maximum height. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 04 December 2017 Download A commanding view Looking deep inside the Tokamak Pit, where machine assembly activities will kick off in 2018. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 03 December 2017 Download Tokamak Complex under construction On the left—the Diagnostics Building; in the centre—the Tokamak Building; on the right—the Tritium Building. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 03 December 2017 Download Ground level, Tritium Building Work underway on the Tritium Building in November.
07 November 2017 Download Visitors on a Saturday During the ITER Open Doors Day on 21 October visitors were invited to walk out into the centre of the bioshield, where European Domestic Agency contractors were on hand to give explanations.
21 October 2017 Download A table full of building materials As part of explanations, visitors were shown the different elements used in Tokamak Complex construction ... including some of the thickest rebar on the market.
21 October 2017 Download Through the magic door Visitors entered the bioshield through an opening that will accommodate one of the neutral beam injectors, used to heat the plasma.
21 October 2017 Download Non-random constellations Each one of the embedded plates in the basement of the Diagnostics Building has been placed with care and its final position measured through laser techniques. Position will be important when it comes to attaching the systems and components planned for this level.
17 October 2017 Download FUSION! A reminder, in yellow, of what everyone on site is working for: FUSION! 17 October 2017 Download A peculiar opening Most openings in the bioshield are perfect squares (4 m x 4 m). This one and three others, however, stand out due to their peculiar oval or round shapes—a distinctive sign that signals them out as the openings for the ITER neutral beam injectors.
17 October 2017 Download Like a giant bird's nest Concrete pouring is about to begin on the third above-ground level of the ITER bioshield (L3).
08 October 2017 Download Pouring the "mega" columns Eighteen massive columns will provide structural support to the different levels of the Tokamak Complex; six among them will have the additional role of supporting the assembly crane rails. At the L2 level of the Tokamak Building, concrete is being poured into one of these "mega columns." 08 October 2017 Download In the heart of Haute-Provence Scrubland and forest, rounded hills and perched villages, the Alps half-masked by a blue haze ... the landscape that extends beyond the ITER site is typical of Haute-Provence. Looking north on a clear day the view extends all the way to the Massif des Écrins, a mountain range 200 kilometres distant with summits at more than 4,000 metres.
08 October 2017 Download Early October on site The ITER platform in early October, with work advancing on the Tokamak Complex, the twin Magnet Power Conversion buildings, and the cryoplant (counter clockwise).
08 October 2017 Download Looking through The Tokamak Complex basement is visible through an opening in the bioshield lid. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 30 September 2017 Download ITER artwork Embedded plates are positioned ... very precisely ... before the concrete pouring team can move in. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 30 September 2017 Download In late September Looking from the Diagnostics Building towards ITER Headquarters. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 30 September 2017 Download Interesting shapes In the upper levels of the bioshield, openings are reserved for the passage of equipment. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 30 September 2017 Download Bioshield: work proceeds on level 4 Formwork is in place for Level 4 (L4) concrete pouring. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 30 September 2017 Download The C1 crane In the centre of it all: the C1 crane, which stands where the Tokamak will one day stand. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 30 September 2017 Download The red hats Site foremen and women can be identified by their red hardhats. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 30 September 2017 Download Last bioshield levels Formwork advances for the L4 and L5 levels of the bioshield in September. When they are in place, the bioshield will be complete. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 30 September 2017 Download Plates galore Embedded plates stud the floors, walls, columns and ceilings of the Tokamak Complex—more than 100,000 in all. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 30 September 2017 Download Under cover The day's blueprints are kept out of the rain and wind ... © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 30 September 2017 Download Parallel projects The walls of the Tokamak Building are higher now by one level than those of the Tritium Building (foreground). © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 30 September 2017 Download Climbing On the perfect circle of the bioshield (stretched out here by the camera's lens) two new levels are under construction: L3 and L4. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 30 September 2017 Download One level to go on this side The Diagnostics Building (in grey) now stands two stories above platform level. One more to go and the building is completed.
26 September 2017 Download An elevator for bus-sized components Between the Tokamak Building (under construction in the background) and the Hot Cell (excavated but not yet built) there will be a robotic system ensuring the remote transfer of in-vessel components between the vacuum vessel and refurbishment/disposal facilities. The three large openings in this photo are for bus-size casks that will be capable of servicing vacuum vessel ports on three levels.
19 September 2017 Download Level 3 Teams are currently working at L3 level, installing the iron rebar and positioning the embedded plates before the walls get poured.
19 September 2017 Download Under the lid A peek into the basement levels of the bioshield, where work is scheduled to start this autumn on the heavily reinforced concrete crown that will support the weight of the machine.
12 September 2017 Download Practising on the crown A 1:1 mockup is under construction on the ITER site that represents a 20-degree section of the cryostat crown and two radial walls. The concrete crown will support the weight of the full ITER machine—vacuum vessel, cryostat, thermal shield and superconducting magnets (23,000 tonnes).
12 September 2017 Download Lid in place View from above: the ''lid'' is now in place. Two openings will allow material and equipment for the crown's construction to be delivered to the ground floor.
12 September 2017 Download From below View from below: the steel structure will protect workers on the the lower-level of the machine ''well'' and will also be used as a storage platform.
12 September 2017 Download Underway now In order to demonstrate the full constructability of the massive crown structure that will support the machine, a 1:1 mockup is being erected on the ITER platform.
12 September 2017 Download Early September Work underway on level 3 (L3) of the bioshield.
04 September 2017 Download Rising in sync The Diagnostics Building and the bioshield have both been built up to level 3 (L3). (The photo is taken from the L3 basement of the Diagnostics Building.) 04 September 2017 Download A temporary divider A metal lid has been installed at L1 level, effectively dividing the basement levels from the rest. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 21 August 2017 Download Still underway The metal sheets still have to be laid on this side of the bioshield well. The opening will allow materials to be delivered to the lower levels. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 21 August 2017 Download Small crane A small crane has been installed for the manipulation of building material under the temporary lid.
17 August 2017 Download Looking up Lid installation, seen from below.
17 August 2017 Download First beams The first beams are installed at level B1 for the temporary lid. The lid is designed to be strong enough to act as a temporary storage platform for materials.
11 August 2017 Download Looking down on the lid Work underway on the temporary lid, seen from above.
11 August 2017 Download A temporary lid The basement levels of the Tokamak assembly area will soon be covered over by a temporary lid, installed to protect the workers involved in the construction of the cryostat support crown and radial walls.
06 August 2017 Download Wide-angle view Taken from the first scaffolding elements at L4 level, this view takes in much of the south-southwest view, from the Magnet Power Conversion buildings under construction at left to ITER Headquarters at right.
02 August 2017 Download Last picture of full assembly arena An incredible level of detail is discernible in this picture of the first four levels of the ITER bioshield. Soon, though, the basement levels will be hidden from view by a steel cap installed mid-way down.
02 August 2017 Download Preparing to "cap" the basement White beams are being set into place at the level of the L1 basemat. Once these beams have been installed all the way across, a steel "cap" will be installed. The cap will protect workers below and serve as a storage platform above.
02 August 2017 Download The towering bioshield Looking up through the ITER bioshield in early August. Teams are currently working on the L3 (or second-to-last) level.
02 August 2017 Download A crane for a crown This crane has been specially designed to travel in a perfect circle at the bottom of the machine assembly well (B2 level). Its mission: to lift and deliver the loads for the construction of the concrete crown that will support the combined mass of the cryostat and Tokamak (23,000 tonnes).
13 July 2017 Download Moving up from L2 Two columns of rebar have been implemented at the L3 level and pouring is set to start on plot 13.
13 July 2017 Download From the rim Four completed levels of the ITER bioshield are visible in this wide-angle photo, from the lowest basement level B2 through B1, L1 and finally L2. The single heaviest machine component—the 1,250-tonne cryostat base that is being assembled now in an on-site workshop—will sit at the bottom of this assembly pit on a concrete crown that has yet to be realized.
13 July 2017 Download A star will be born The early morning sun shines through one of the penetrations of the ITER bioshield, symbolizing the "star" that will be born when deuterium-tritium operations begin in 2035.
13 July 2017 Download July status The ITER bioshield, centre, and the Diagnostics Building, right, have both reached L2 level and work is underway on L3. Approximately 400 workers in two shifts are in involved in Tokamak Complex construction.
12 July 2017 Download The mother of all embedded plates Of the 115,000 embedded plates to be installed in the floors, walls and ceilings in the Tokamak Complex, this set of five (in beige, including one large circular plate) is unique. Located in the very centre of the machine assembly pit, with 48-millimetre-thick studs reaching more than one metre deep into the basemat slab, the set will anchor the main tool of Tokamak Pit assembly.
12 July 2017 Download Eye from the sky The Tokamak Complex "box" as seen by drone on a dry summer day in July. One quarter of the L1 Tokamak Building slab remains to be poured. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 11 July 2017 Download Diagnostics Building The Diagnostics Building has reached L2 level (second above-ground floor) and work is beginning to frame out the L3-level floor slab. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 11 July 2017 Download A sea of iron Rebar reinforcement is in place for the platform level slab (L1) of the Tokamak Building.
04 July 2017 Download L2 emerging The second above-ground level of the bioshield is emerging from its formwork.
03 July 2017 Download A window to the Tokamak The largest openings in the bioshield are approximately 5 x 5 metres. (For a sense of the opening's true size, see the worker in yellow on the other side.) © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 June 2017 Download Tokamak Complex, Level 1 This photo shows an area just outside of the bioshield that will be packed with systems and components. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 June 2017 Download Rounding the corner One of the last areas around the bioshield that has not yet been poured. Preparations are underway. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 June 2017 Download That's a lot of steel Some 30,000 tonnes of steel reinforcement will be integrated into the walls, ceilings and floors of the Tokamak Complex. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 June 2017 Download In late June When completed, the top of the bioshield will be aligned (approximately) with the base of the poster. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 June 2017 Download Bringing the power of the Sun to Earth A large poster adorns the temporary wall of the Assembly Hall. Against this spectacular backdrop, workers are advancing the L3 level of the bioshield.
22 June 2017 Download Up close Close to five levels high (B2, B1, L1, L2 and L3 underway), the ITER bioshield forms the "pit" for Tokamak assembly activities.
19 June 2017 Download Completing the L1 floor slab Workers are finalizing the installation of embedded plates on this part of the L1 Tokamak Building slab. Note the gap that exists for the moment between the L1 floor and the bioshield (at left).
19 June 2017 Download Embedded plates galore An estimated 110,000 steel plates will be embedded in the Tokamak Complex floors, walls and ceilings to anchor equipment.
19 June 2017 Download Central arena Looking more and more like a coliseum, the ITER bioshield rises from the centre of the Tokamak Building.
19 June 2017 Download Closing up the L2 bioshield The circle of concrete is closing in at L2 level and work is already underway on the next. The ITER bioshield wall is 3.2 metres at its thickest.
14 June 2017 Download Specially designed openings Each bioshield opening is scaled for the systems that will pass through. Some openings are square, some circular, some oval ...
14 June 2017 Download From the centre Inside of the Tokamak Pit, looking up. Unlike the lower levels, the top level of the bioshield (L4) will be an unbroken wall (with zero openings).
14 June 2017 Download Working on site in two shifts Construction of the Tritium Building (foreground) progresses at ground level. In the background, multiple levels of cladding are installed on the Radio Frequency Heating Building.
14 June 2017 Download Successive pours at level 2 Scaffolding surrounds the ITER bioshield as workers advance on the L2 level (note the concrete pump at left).
09 June 2017 Download View from above The Tokamak Complex worksite, seen from the C2 crane on the northern corner.
08 June 2017 Download Tokamak Complex rising The basement levels of the Tokamak Complex are framed out; work is under way on the first ground floor (L1) of the Tokamak Building at centre and L2 of the Diagnostics Building at right.
02 June 2017 Download Dense rebar The last part of the L1-level basemat in the Tokamak Building is readied for concrete pouring. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 31 May 2017 Download Inspecting the works Work on the construction site is like a well-tuned orchestra, with each party playing an important role. Here representatives of the architect/engineer ENGAGE inspect the works. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 31 May 2017 Download Peeking through The Tokamak assembly pit is already nearly 30 metres deep when you count the basement levels. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 31 May 2017 Download Floating foundation All around the Tokamak Complex a gap of approximately two metres allows the three-building complex on a single foundation to "move" on its seismic pads and absorb—in case of need—the accelerations linked to earthquake-induced ground motion. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE.
31 May 2017 Download Diagnostics box The Diagnostics Building is framed out at platform level (L1). © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 31 May 2017 Download Medieval castle? Under a grey sky, the bioshield and its scaffolding looks something like a medieval castle ...© Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 31 May 2017 Download Proud to be part of it Approximately 400 workers are currently working in two shifts on the Tokamak Complex. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 31 May 2017 Download Pouring is underway on the L2 level of the Tokamak bioshield. There are two more levels to come (L3 and L4). © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 31 May 2017 Download Staging ground All around the Tokamak Complex available space is used for the storage of materials such as embedded plates, formwork and scaffolding. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 31 May 2017 Download Building up around the centre The C1 crane marks the centre, where Tokamak assembly will begin next year.
20 May 2017 Download Showing off progress Work was halted on the Tokamak Building worksite on Saturday 20 May, in order to allow ITER Open Doors day participants to get as close as possible to the bioshield.
20 May 2017 Download Hobbit haven Level L1 of the bioshield seems to be more hole than wall. Some of the openings would please a Hobbit ...
28 April 2017 Download Like a rocket aiming for the stars From inside the Tokamak Pit, looking out past the successive levels of the ITER bioshield.
28 April 2017 Download Starry ceilings It's harder to see by drone, but work is still being carried out in the lower levels of the Tokamak Complex. Here, workers smooth the edges around each of the embedded plates that has been planned for the anchoring of equipment. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 27 April 2017 Download Ground level, Tokamak Building Pouring continues on the basemat slab of the Tokamak Building, ground level (L1). © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 27 April 2017 Download Standing taller and taller Looking in toward the bioshield. Each of the openings corresponds to an opening in the cryostat © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 27 April 2017 Download From the inner circle At the L2 level of the bioshield, heavy metal plates are embedded into each column. These plates will support the Tokamak in-pit assembly tool. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 27 April 2017 Download Late April Tokamak Complex construction, late April. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 27 April 2017 Download Seen from the northeast corner The basement of the Tokamak Complex has disappeared. On the right: the Tritium Building; on the left: the Tokamak Building and bioshield. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 27 April 2017 Download Only one more to go for the Diagnostics Building The building that will house the back systems of the ITER diagnostics is composed of two basement levels and three above-ground levels. Work is underway now on L2. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 27 April 2017 Download Tritium Building reaches B1 level The progress of the B1 slab basemat and walls of the Tritium Building. ©LNM 20 April 2017 Download Circle rising One of the most spectacular features of the ITER site is the perfectly circular bioshield, which will rise up to the L4 level and then be capped. The bioshield will surround the cryostat, which in turn surrounds the steel vacuum vessel.
19 April 2017 Download Inside the arena A peek into the deep "well" where the ITER Tokamak assembly will begin next year.
19 April 2017 Download Looks like an apartment complex, is not Inside the huge well of the ITER bioshield, teams are working on different levels simultaneously. The worker in yellow stands at B1 level, where the base of the cryostat will one day be supported on a concrete crown. At L1 level a temporary structure has been erected to support some of the tools and equipment needed for concrete pouring and, just above, work continues to finalize the L2 level which hosts the multi-tonne steel plates that will anchor the main assembly tool in the Tokamak Pit.
19 April 2017 Download Soon to be two zones A temporary cap will soon be installed at B1 level, where you see the red line in this picture. The cap will allow workers to work safely below, while work on the bioshield continues above up to the final level: L4.
19 April 2017 Download Seen from above Workers are preparing to pour the last segments of the Tokamak Building L1 slab ... laying rebar, positioning anchor plates, setting up scaffolding. Visitors to ITER's Open Doors Day in May will be able to walk out over the finished concrete (L1 is the equivalent of ground level).
19 April 2017 Download The three buildings of the Tokamak Complex The Tritium, Tokamak and Diagnostic buildings, seen from the top of a crane. A maze of concrete and rebar.
19 April 2017 Download Second storey work It's easy to see that the first storey of the Diagnostics Building is in place and that work is underway on the second. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 10 April 2017 Download Nice and regular Anchor plates for attaching equipment are spaced regularly on this part of the Tokamak Building slab. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 10 April 2017 Download Beginning to look like the Colosseum With its regularly spaced openings over several levels, ITER bioshield could almost look like ... the Colosseum in Rome. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 10 April 2017 Download A sea of iron The density of rebar in this critical area of the Tokamak Complex is high, both for the bioshield and the surrounding slab. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 10 April 2017 Download Highest yet The Diagnostics Building is the Complex building that has advanced the fastest. Workers are currently pouring the L2 (second storey) slab. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 10 April 2017 Download Gouging the giant's eye On 6 April, the massive formwork is removed— or rather ''gouged out''—from openings in the bioshield wall.
06 April 2017 Download Top of the bioshield At the top of the ring, work starts on the L3-level bioshield. L4 will be the last level of this huge concrete structure that is designed to completely enclose the machine. Photo: ENGAGE 24 March 2017 Download Successive pours for the bioshield Connected to mixer trucks by pipes running through the basement of the Tokamak Complex, the two pumps can deliver some 30 cubic metres of concrete per hour.
24 March 2017 Download Different teams, different projects As concrete pouring proceeds in the background, workers on the L1 level of the building are busy handling a bundle of 12-metre-long bars for the steel reinforcement of the neutral beam cell slab.
24 March 2017 Download Concentrating the resources on the centre Work is underway on three levels of the bioshield at the same time (L1, L2, L3). Three hundred workers, in two shifts, are participating.
18 March 2017 Download The most unmovable surface around Exploiting the most reliable (i.e., unmovable) surface available—the concrete bioshield—the metrology team at ITER will establish a matrix of reference "targets," or fixed points, for use in measuring and aligning tokamak components during the assembly phase.
08 March 2017 Download The Tokamak Pit Looking down from the L2 level of the bioshield into the Tokamak Pit ... where the ITER machine will be assembled from bottom up beginning in 2018.
08 March 2017 Download Measuring the as-built result As the ITER bioshield rises, metrologists are on site to measure the as-built construction ... including the precise position of openings and embedded plates.
08 March 2017 Download A sea of plates These embedded plates will one day support equipment for the neutral beam injection system. In the distance, the towers are part of the cargo lift system that will transfer components between the Tokamak Building and the Hot Cell Facility.
08 March 2017 Download Looks small ... is not Look closely at the worker in orange to get a real idea of the size of the ITER bioshield.
08 March 2017 Download Tower rising Having completed the bioshield basement levels B2 and B1, workers are now advancing on the "L" levels above-ground. L1 has been poured and is seen still surrounded by scaffolding in this picture; L2 is half framed out; and the first reinforcement bars are visible at the L3 level.
08 March 2017 Download Preparing for circular openings Circular areas are reserved in the rebar at the L3 level of the ITER bioshield for future magnet feeders.
08 March 2017 Download The pre-Alpes in the background Snow-peaked mountains provide a spectacular backdrop to this worker preparing for a lift operation.
08 March 2017 Download Working on the bioshield, L2 level Scaffolding is transported by crane to the L2 level of the bioshield, where concrete pouring continues.
08 March 2017 Download Coming full circle Looking into the circle of the ITER bioshield, where the first ground level L1 (seen as the top level in this photo) is framed out for final concrete pouring.
02 March 2017 Download Three buildings on a "floating" foundation Looking down at the Tritium Building. Note the two-metre gap between the Tokamak Complex buildings and the retaining wall, which allow the buildings to move as one (on a single foundation) in the case of a seismic event. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 February 2017 Download Call in the pumps! Everything is nearly in place for the start of concrete pouring in this section of the Tokamak Building. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 February 2017 Download Looking up Down in the bowels of the Tritium Building, looking up toward the Assembly Hall. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 February 2017 Download Amazing The concrete bioshield rises like an arena in the middle of the Tokamak Complex. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 February 2017 Download Looking over the bioshield toward Headquarters A special area of the ITER bioshield, with four ovoid openings reserved for the heating and diagnostic neutral beam injectors. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 February 2017 Download Heavy metal The reinforcement of the bioshield is practically the densest on site: 300 kg/m³. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 February 2017 Download 18 embedded plates at L3 level These heavy steel plates will support the weight of the in-pit assembly tool—a tree-like structure that will support the weight of the vacuum vessel sectors during welding. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 February 2017 Download Perfect squares Openings in the bioshield, perfectly aligned, evoke a city-like structure ... © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 February 2017 Download Bewildering complexity In this area of the Tokamak Complex, where the circular meets the linear, the construction plans are bewildering complex. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 February 2017 Download Secret passageway A two-metre-wide alley between the retaining walls (left) and the start of the Tokamak Complex (right). © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 February 2017 Download It takes precision Each embedded plate is carefully aligned and secured. There will be over 80,000 of these on the walls, floors and ceilings of the Tokamak Complex. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 28 February 2017 Download Yellow vests and hats Visitors are a daily feature on the ITER worksite. In 2016 the project welcomed nearly 15,000 people and organized 600 visits.
06 February 2017 Download 20 metres high already The three-metre-thick ITER bioshield now rises 20 metres, including five metres above the level of the construction platform. Out of sight are the two basement levels B2 and B1. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 January 2017 Download Ground level Walking along scaffolding at the ground level (L1) of the Tritium Building. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 January 2017 Download Dizzying The complex worksite of the Tokamak Complex, with the Tritium Building in the foreground. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 January 2017 Download Diagnostic Building rises The 40 x 80 metre Diagnostic Building has reached L1 level. Each diagnostic system will be assigned a room on one of the three central floors of the building, to house the electronic and information systems that will receive, record and interpret signals from the operational arena. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 January 2017 Download Tritium Building Interior partioning is underway at the B1 (upper basement) level of the Tritium Building. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 25 January 2017 Download The bioshield rises The bioshield structure is rising at the heart of the Tokamak Building. The last plot of the B1 level was poured last week (the workers in yellow are at B1 level); about half of the first ground level (L1) is now complete (level above the workers); and the first elements of L2 are in place (see scaffolding).
19 January 2017 Download Diagnostics Building rises Level L1 (platform level) of the Diagnostics Building is now clearly frame out. The building will comprise five stories in all—two underground and three above. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 12 January 2017 Download Five-storey "Diagnostic Hotel" Diagnostics signals will leave the tokamak arena along waveguides, cables or fibre optics and travel as much as 40 metres to the back-end electronic and information systems housed in the Diagnostics Building. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 12 January 2017 Download Peeking in A temporary platform is in place as workers frame out level L1 of the bioshield. Also visible in the photo, the first activities on level L2. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 12 January 2017 Download Ground-level bioshield The ITER bioshield now rises 5 metres above ground level. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 12 January 2017 Download Four circular openings Four circular openings, in all, are reserved in the bioshield for ITER's neutral beam injectors: three for the heating neutral beams (first three in the photo, from left) and one for the diagnostic neutral beam (foreground, smaller).
11 January 2017 Download Hobbit holes? These large circular openings in the bioshield are reserved for the neutral beam injection system that will feed some 30 MW of heating power into the plasma.
09 January 2017 Download Basement levels filling in The emerging Tokamak Complex is clearly distinguishable from a height of 100 metres. The 80 x 120 metre "box" will contain the three principal buildings of the ITER installation: the Tokamak, Diagnostic and Tritium buildings. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 19 December 2016 Download L1 bioshield The L1 level of the ITER bioshield (ground level 1) is progressing well and formwork is arriving for the L2 level. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 19 December 2016 Download Two of many! Some 1,200 people are currently active on the worksite in two shifts and another 800 people in the offices. The European Domestic Agency is charged with the construction of the ITER installation, in close collaboration with the ITER Organization. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 19 December 2016 Download Tokamak Complex now higher than platform The Diagnostics Building is the first to rise above the platform (pictured, the L1 level wall). © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 19 December 2016 Download ITER bioshield: poured segment by segment At the foot of the Assembly Building, the concrete structure of the ITER bioshield emerges from its formwork. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 19 December 2016 Download Going up The first ground level of the Diagnostics Building (L1). © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 19 December 2016 Download From one crane The Tokamak Complex worksite is photographed one evening in December from one of the tallest cranes.
13 December 2016 Download ITER bioshield rises The perfectly circular ITER bioshield is rising in the centre of the Tokamak Complex. In this photo, we see progress advancing on Level L1 (the first "aboveground" level).
02 December 2016 Download 44 openings Forty-four openings, or ports, in the vacuum vessel will allow access for remote handling, diagnostic, heating, fuelling and vacuum systems. These openings are reflected in the bioshield (photo) that is under construction now.
02 December 2016 Download Regular access The B1 level (first basement level) of the concrete bioshield is pierced by regular openings for the access of plant systems to the cryostat and tokamak.
10 November 2016 Download The Tokamak Assembly arena The building is rising all around, but the central well for the Tokamak remains. Tokamak assembly can start here as soon as the building is ready for occupation.
10 November 2016 Download Could cause crick in the neck Looking up towards the top of the 60-metre-tall Assembly Building, from the Tokamak Complex worksite.
10 November 2016 Download In the Tokamak's subterranean world A cathedral-like space, massive columns, a "sky" speckled with "stars" ... here is the fascinating atmosphere of the basement of the Tokamak Complex, captured by ITER's photographer and interpreted by Christian Lünig (Christian Lünig/VG Bild und Kunst).
25 October 2016 Download Down under In the belly of the Tokamak Building, between the B2 and B1 levels. During the lead-up to Tokamak operation, the space will be completed filled with pipes, cables, feeders and busbars, all secured to the embedded plates visible in the floors, walls and ceilings.
24 October 2016 Download In the "pit" As the Tokamak Building rises, the Tokamak "pit" in the centre becomes more distinct. Here, over one million components will be assembled into the ITER machine.
19 October 2016 Download Close up of works In the foreground, the Tokamak Complex is rising to meet the level of the platform. Towering above the workers is the ITER Assembly Hall. Photo: F4E 06 October 2016 Download 2,000 hands About 200 workers are involved in Tokamak Complex construction at this stage, and another 800 elsewhere on the platform. Photo: F4E 06 October 2016 Download A door for drain tanks This "opening" has been reserved in order to allow the five drain tanks of the tokamak cooling water system to be installed. Photo: F4E 06 October 2016 Download Bioshield reinforcement now visible at platform level Work advances on the L1 level of the ITER bioshield—the thick concrete wall that will completely surround the machine. L1 corresponds to the first "above-ground" level. Photo: F4E 06 October 2016 Download The complexity of the Tokamak Complex Within the concrete "box" of the Tokamak Complex, three buildings are going up on a single foundation: the Tritium Building, the Tokamak Building and the Diagnostics Building. Fully equipped, they will weigh 400,000 tonnes. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 04 October 2016 Download Nearly level with the platform Work progresses in October on level B1 (the first basement level). The Diagnostics Building is already flush with the platform (right side of the Complex); the central Tokamak Building and the Tritium Building (left) won't be long in following. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 04 October 2016 Download Reserved for the machine! A perfect circle is preserved as the Tokamak Complex rises all around. This is the machine assembly area, where the first assembly activities will begin in 2018. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 04 October 2016 Download A perfect circle The two-level Tokamak Complex basement is in place with, at its centre, the assembly arena for the ITER machine. © Les Nouveaux Médias/ENGAGE 21 September 2016 Download In the late August light The Diagnostic and Tritium buildings (left and right) frame the central Tokamak area. The lowest-level basemat has completely disappeared. ©LNM/F4E 25 August 2016 Download Second storey of the Tritium Building In early August, work progresses on the B1 level (upper basement level) floor slab of the Tritium Building.
01 August 2016 Download For strong anchorage Workers are carefully positioning hundreds of embedded plates in the dense rebar lattice before pouring the concrete for the B1 basement of the Tritium Building.
01 August 2016 Download A poster ... for now The Assembly Building, now adorned with a giant poster of the ITER machine, dominates the ITER landscape. Eventually, as the Tokamak Building rises, the temporary cladding on the northwest facade will be removed and the two buildings will be joined into one.
01 August 2016 Download The lower basement level has disappeared from sight Half of the B1 basemat (the upper basement level slab) has now been poured for the Tokamak Building, in the centre of the image.
01 August 2016 Download Inside of the "Pit," looking up toward the ITER Assembly Building When the seven stories of the Tokamak Building are completed, the two buildings will match in height (60 m above platform level).
15 July 2016 Download All in a line At the top right of the photo, we can see how the cryostat segments will leave the Cryostat Workshop through the large doors and travel in a straight line to the Cleaning Facility/Assembly Hall, before being delivered by overhead crane to the Tokamak Pit. © EJF Riche 11 July 2016 Download Precision demanded Tens of thousands of embedded plates will be installed throughout the seven levels of the Tokamak Complex to provide anchorage for equipment such as cable trays, cooling water system tanks and diagnostics. These plates must be inserted into the rebar lattice prior to concrete pouring.
11 July 2016 Download Like so many spokes The centre of it all: the Tokamak installation arena, with spokes (reinforcement for radial walls) all around. © EJF Riche 11 July 2016 Download Plates galore On the subject of embedded plates, this photo allows us to see the plates that have been positioned on the underside of the basemat (the ceiling of one level), as well the ones on the floor of another.
11 July 2016 Download A perfect circle Here's where the ITER Tokamak will be assembled. The first major component to be installed will be the 1,250-tonne cryostat base. © EJF Riche 11 July 2016 Download Concrete, and more concrete Outside of the circular bioshield, workers are pouring the B1 basemat in sections. © EJF Riche 11 July 2016 Download Tritium Building, level B1 After the installation of six captive components (water detritiation tanks), work is now progressing to frame out the B1-level basemat. © EJF Riche 11 July 2016 Download Filling in In the central Tokamak Building area, the B1-level floor is progressively cast in concrete. © EJF Riche 11 July 2016 Download Dizzying The progression of the Tokamak Building, captured by drone in July 2016. © EJF Riche 11 July 2016 Download A suite of three The three buildings of the Tokamak Complex—Tritium, Tokamak and Diagnostics—are clearly visible in this photo taken by drone. © EJF Riche 11 July 2016 Download A busy scene From the Diagnostics Building, where formwork is underway for the Level L1 basemat (which will bring the building flush with the platform), we look across the complex scape of the Tokamak Building, with its multitude of steel bars, embedded plates, and equipment.
30 June 2016 Download Tokamak Building, June 2016 As the building rises on all sides, the circular Tokamak assembly area—called the "pit"—becomes more and more pronounced.
15 June 2016 Download First mechanical equipement for Tokamak Building Part of the nuclear effluent drainage system, this 18 m³ tank is the first mechanical equipment to be lowered into the Tokamak Building.
07 June 2016 Download Often seen on site From left to right: Laurent Schmieder, head of ITER Site, Buildings and Power Supplies for the European Domestic Agency; and Georges Romero, construction works expert.
07 June 2016 Download Looking into the Tokamak Complex Looking from the Tritium Building (level B2) towards the central Tokamak area. To the left, the face of the Assembly Building will soon be covered in cladding. Photo: F4E 04 June 2016 Download Working on the B1 level On the left, the B1 level basemat for the Diagnostics Building is in place and work has started on the inner partitions. The part of the Tokamak Building B1 basemat that was realized on 26 April can be seen in the lower right of the frame.
02 June 2016 Download Filling in The B1-level walls of the Diagnostic Building reach the level of the platform. Visible to the right, the gap of approximately two metres that completely surrounds the buildings—a space that allows the buildings, on their basemat, to absorb ground motion in the case of an earthquake.
02 June 2016 Download A view that won't be around forever This spectacular angle for photography is about to be closed off as a temporary wall is progressively built between the Assembly Building and the Tokamak Pit.
02 June 2016 Download Eagle-eye view From the Assembly Hall, the view of the Tokamak Pit is exceptional. Workers are advancing on the B1 level (basement 1) of the Tokamak Complex.
12 May 2016 Download The Tokamak "Pit" As the B2 basement level of the Tokamak Complex disappears under the reinforcement of the B1-level basemat, the central assembly area for the ITER machine (called the "Pit") becomes more and more visible—especially from a certain height.
26 April 2016 Download Milestone for the Tokamak Building Concrete pouring for the B1 basement level of the Tokamak Building begins on Tuesday 26 April. When the B1 floor (basemat) is in place, the construction of B1 walls will bring the Tokamak Complex flush with the level of the platform.
26 April 2016 Download A full day of pouring Some 540 cubic meters of concrete are employed in filling a 750 square-metre area (plots 4 and 5) for the B1 basemat of the Tokamak Building.
26 April 2016 Download Optical metrology Metrology activities are contributing significantly to the success of Tokamak Complex construction operations.
26 April 2016 Download Last touches to the rebar While just outside the frame to the right workers are starting on the first concrete pour of the Tokamak Building, another team puts the finishing touches on the rebar of the central segments. Pouring will resume in May.
25 April 2016 Download Connecting to the crown One-metre thick radial walls (pictured here as spokes) will connect the massive ITER bioshield to the concrete Tokamak crown, which will support the combined mass of the cryostat, the vacuum vessel, the magnet system and the thermal shield. © EJF Riche 12 April 2016 Download Impressive logistics Progress on the ITER site relies on finely tuned logistics. As concrete mixer trucks rush to the cryoplant worksite, every inch of ground surrounding the Tokamak Pit seems to be occupied by stacks of embedded plates, formwork equipment and steel rebar.
07 April 2016 Download Up another level The installation of rebar installation is progressing on plot #2 of the Tokamak Complex (B1 level) at the right side of the photo. The completion of this second basement level will bring the Tokamak Complex flush with the ITER platform.
07 April 2016 Download (More) men at work The workforce involved with Tokamak Complex construction is set to increase significantly in the next three months. Some 40 formworkers and close to 100 rebar specialists will be added to the teams presently working on the bioshield and the B1 level.
07 April 2016 Download Ever-wider circles Concentric circles of metal and cement surround the space reserved for the ITER Tokamak where, for now, only the central crane stands.
07 April 2016 Download Second drain tank Two of these 100-cubic-metre tanks will join four smaller (20-cubic-metre) tanks in the basement of the Tritium Building before work can start on the next building level. Photo: F4E 07 April 2016 Download Carefully now! The worksite team slowly lowers one of the tanks into its bed. The water detritiation system is part of Europe's contribution to the ITER Project. Photo: F4E 07 April 2016 Download Settled into the basement of the Tokamak Complex Six water detritiation tanks are now in place in the B2 basement level of the Tritium Building—the first plant components to be installed inside the reactor building (the Tokamak Complex). Photo: F4E 07 April 2016 Download First component placed in Tritium Building The first of six water detritiation tanks was installed on 29 March in the lowest basement level (B2) of the Tritium Building. This is the very first component to be installed in the Tokamak Complex.
29 March 2016 Download Six in all Six metal tanks supplied by Europe will be installed in the Tritium Building for ITER's water detritiation system.
29 March 2016 Download Basement fills in To the right of the photo, work on the B1 basement level of the Diagnostics Building advances, bringing the structure flush with the ITER platform.
22 March 2016 Download Bioshield mezzanine Just outside the 3-metre-thick ITER bioshield (partially covered in blue), workers are pouring the south side of the bioshield mezzanine. Photo: F4E 03 March 2016 Download The "Pit" From the top of the Assembly Hall, it's easy to see why we call the tokamak assembly area the "Tokamak Pit." Photo: F4E 03 March 2016 Download Managing work on site Behind the main construction area, prefabricated buildings house the on-site teams of the consortia charged with carrying out work by the European Domestic agency. Photo: F4E 03 March 2016 Download Partitions galore The partitions of the B2 (lower basement) level of the Tritium Building are nearly completed. Photo: ENGAGE 22 February 2016 Download Diagnostics Building - reaching ground level Work advances well on both the interior and exterior walls of the Diagnostics Building at level B1. In April, propping work will begin at ground level (L1). Photo: ENGAGE 17 February 2016 Download Bullseye The C1 crane is anchored exactly where Tokamak assembly will begin. Photo: ENGAGE 16 February 2016 Download Well-laid plans Early one morning in February, in the centre of the Tokamak Pit, the field team examines a diagram of the day's work. Photo: ENGAGE 16 February 2016 Download Moving in toward the centre When all Tokamak Complex civil work is done, only the centre of the area will remain accessible for the assembly and installation operations of the ITER Tokamak.
04 February 2016 Download Many a plate ...
The pre-installed squares that are noticeable on the vertical reinforcement are embedded plates, designed to provide robust anchorage for Diagnostic Building equipment.
04 February 2016 Download Level B1 In the Diagnostics Building, basement level one (B1) now has a floor and work is underway on the propping for the walls.
04 February 2016 Download Bioshield, rising On top of the first circle of bioshield, work is now underway on the skirts and plates of the next level. A mockup has been created on site to validate the procedures of this second-step pour.
04 February 2016 Download 360° bioshield The second pour for the ITER bioshield took place on 20 January—now the full ring is in place at the lower level.
04 February 2016 Download Completing the lowest level In the centre of the Tokamak Pit, the walls of the Tokamak Building are rising—the east, west and south sides have been poured at the B2 (lower basement) level and 70 percent of columns are in place. B1-level civil works will start in the Tokamak Building during the first quarter of 2016.
12 January 2016 Download All lit up In December lights stay on late in the Tokamak Pit, where the last shift leaves off at 10:00 p.m. Concrete pouring on the second level of the Tokamak Complex will begin in early 2016.
10 December 2015 Download Reinforcement and concrete pouring progress for the Diagnostics Building The workers in the foreground are standing on the first basement level (B1) of the Diagnostics Building. Photo: F4E 01 December 2015 Download First B1 reinforcement in place Reinforcement activities on basement level 1 (B1) of the Tokamak Complex get underway in November.
24 November 2015 Download Progress on the Tokamak Complex Work is advancing on the Tokamak Complex in two 8-hour shifts.
24 November 2015 Download Tritium Building - level B2 nearly completed On the northernmost end of the Tokamak Pit, the final walls and pillars are being poured for the Tritium Building.
24 November 2015 Download Lower level hidden from view Wooden formwork and rebar lattices now completely cover the lower level of the Diagnostic Building. The first concrete slab for the B1 level of the Diagnostics Building has been poured.
24 November 2015 Download Site impressions, November 2015 1/6 Photo: Christian Lünig/ VG Bild und Kunst 07 November 2015 Download Site impressions, November 2015 2/6 Photo: Christian Lünig/ VG Bild und Kunst 07 November 2015 Download Site impressions, November 2015 3/6 Photo: Christian Lünig/ VG Bild und Kunst 07 November 2015 Download Site impressions, November 2015 4/6 Photo: Christian Lünig/ VG Bild und Kunst 07 November 2015 Download Site impressions, November 2015 5/6 Photo: Christian Lünig/ VG Bild und Kunst 04 November 2015 Download Site impressions, November 2015 6/6 Photo: Christian Lünig/ VG Bild und Kunst 04 November 2015 Download Three-fifths of a circle In light grey, we can see the poured bioshield concrete—a segment of 200 degrees. It will take 28 days to dry completely.
24 October 2015 Download Work on the next basement level underway Work is underway on the second basement level of the Tokamak Complex (B1). Pictured, the installation of propping and formwork for the Diagnostics Building.
24 October 2015 Download A sense of scale Under the vast structure of the Assembly Building the visitors seem ... very small. They stand on the edge of the Tokamak Pit, where pouring activities are underway on the lowest basement level of the Tokamak Complex.
24 October 2015 Download First pour for the bioshield In the early hours of Wednesday, 21 October, workers poured the first 200° segment of the bioshield, in an all-day operation that took some 15 hours to complete.
21 October 2015 Download Bioshield takes shape Concrete pouring begins on the ITER bioshield (21 October 2015). Photo: F4E 21 October 2015 Download Preparing for the bioshield concrete Formwork marks out the shape of the ITER bioshield on the B2 (second basement) level of the Tokamak Complex. Photo: F4E 20 October 2015 Download Next level pouring to start for the Diagnostics Building Workers are positioning the formwork for the next level (B1) of the Diagnostics Building. Photo: F4E 20 October 2015 Download Rebar forest Plastic caps of many colours protect the couplers that ensure the vertical continuity of the bioshield's steel reinforcement. Pouring will take place in two phases: first a lower segement, then an upper segment (propping is visible between the two).
14 October 2015 Download Structural concrete Between the 18 massive columns that provide structural support to the different levels of the Tokamak Complex, walls will be made of a special, high-density concrete (3.9 tonnes per cubic metre as compared to 2.5 tonnes for regular concrete).
14 October 2015 Download The ITER bioshield Work to install the rebar of the 3.2-metre-thick bioshield was carried out from April to September 2015. Pouring activities are about to begin.
12 October 2015 Download The Tokamak Building In the centre of the Tokamak Pit, concrete pouring for the columns has ended. Work to pour the ITER bioshield begins in October.
29 September 2015 Download Perfect alignment From the sky, it's easy to see how the assembly cranes will deliver their loads from the Assembly Hall (grey roof) along a 175-metre crane bay into the Tokamak Pit. © MatthieuCOLIN.com 21 September 2015 Download In a few years ...
One day, the Tokamak Building (under construction, foreground) will be as high as the just-topped Assembly Building.
11 September 2015 Download Sturdy as they come These massive columns will support the B1 (basement 1) level of the Diagnostic Building.
10 July 2015 Download In July 2015 On the Tritium Building site of the worksite, workers have completed the concrete pouring for the external wall. Work continues on interior walls and columns.
10 July 2015 Download A circle in white The white scaffolding marks out the ITER bioshield, a three-metre-thick concrete wall that will surround the tokamak and cryostat.
10 July 2015 Download According to plan A milestone was met in July when propping and formwork operations got underway for the next basement level of the Tokamak Complex.
10 July 2015 Download A white circle is apparent Looking into the Tokamak Pit from the south rim. It's easy to see where Tokamak assembly will take place in a few years.
07 July 2015 Download Summer 2015 The ITER office buildings will be closed for one week in August, but there will be no pause in the activity on the work site ...
07 July 2015 Download First B1 formwork In the Diagnostic Building area, workers have started to install formwork for the next-level floor.
07 July 2015 Download Walls going up B2-level wall emerge on the Tritium Building side of the Tokamak Pit.
07 July 2015 Download First basement level advances well A fisheye lens allows the full breadth of the future Tritium Building (foreground) to be captured in a photo. The construction of pillars and walls for the B2 basement level is advancing.
03 June 2015 Download Peeking in Looking down into the Tokamak Pit where the B2-level walls and columns are progressively taking shape. Each level of the Tokamak Complex civil structure should take about six months.
03 June 2015 Download A black and white perspective In the foreground: Diagnostic Building pillars. In the background: framing the walls of the Tokamak Building. Photo: Christian Lünig/ VG Bild und Kunst 30 May 2015 Download Framing out the bioshield The ITER bioshield is a 3.2-metre-thick circular structure surrounding the Tokamak, whose role is to protect workers and the environment from radiation generated by the fusion reactions. The bioshield is under construction now. Photo: Christian Lünig/ VG Bild und Kunst¶ 30 May 2015 Download Looking north The Tokamak Complex worksite, late May 2015. Photo: Christian Lünig/ VG Bild und Kunst 30 May 2015 Download 1/18th of the cryostat crown and bioshield This construction mockup reproduces 1/18th of the crown that will support the cryostat and surrounding bioshield. Photo: F4E 05 May 2015 Download The heart of construction In May, reinforcement operations are underway in the Tokamak Building, which will house the machine and a wide number of systems. Photo: F4E 05 May 2015 Download Looking north From this angle, several features of the Tokamak Complex worksite are visible: the cubicles of the Diagnostic Building in the foreground, the round circle of the bioshield in the centre and, on the far side, the walls of the Tritium Building. Photo: F4E 05 May 2015 Download Central ring When closed up, at the end of ITER assembly, the bioshield will completely surround the machine. Here, the white formwork marks out the very lowest level of the protective wall. Photo: F4E 05 May 2015 Download A perfect circle Formwork, in Plexiglas, shapes out the lower part of the bioshield—the three-metre-thick structure that will surround the cryostat. Photo: F4E 05 May 2015 Download Future "Diagnostic Hotel" Walking through the hallways of the future Diagnostic Building will feel a little like walking along the corridors of a hotel, with doors on every side opening to the back-end systems for specific diagnostics. Photo: F4E 05 May 2015 Download Hot Cell storage area In the foreground, the area excavated for the future ITER Hot Cell is used to store, and pre-assemble, the materials used for wall construction.
05 May 2015 Download Progress on the B2 level In the Tokamak Complex Seismic Pit, work on the lowest basement level (B2) progresses well. The pillars have all been poured for the Diagnostics Building (far end) and the external walls of the Tritium Building are in place (left). In the centre, preparatory work is underway in advance of concrete pouring for the bioshield.
29 April 2015 Download A rebar forest Vertical rebar marks out the internal walls of the Diagnostics Building and—in the centre—the bioshield.
21 April 2015 Download Pillars in place The last pillars of the Diagnostics Building were poured late April. Beginning mid-2015, work will begin on the second Tokamak Complex level (B1).
21 April 2015 Download See-through formwork In April, Plexiglas formwork is installed along the circle of rebar that marks out the ITER bioshield. The transparent material allows workers to verify the position of the bioshield's future embedded plates and studs (drawn onto the formwork) during the installation of the reinforcement rods.
21 April 2015 Download Graphic shapes These graphic shapes mark the spots reserved for embedded plates in this section of Tokamak Complex wall.
21 April 2015 Download 900 workers on site In March, 900 workers are engaged in construction activities on the ITER worksite and 300 more are expected in the weeks to come. Photo: Engage 04 March 2015 Download In the basement of the Tokamak Complex This concrete pillar, and others like it, will support the B1 level of the Diagnostics Building basement. Photo: Engage 04 March 2015 Download Shaping the pillars and more On the B2 level of the Tokamak Complex basemat, there are 250 independent "pours" to be carried out, including the pillars (pictured). The work should be completed by May. Photo: Engage 04 March 2015 Download In the basement of the Tokamak Complex Approximately 12 metres below the level of the platform, the basement level walls (level B2) of the Tokamak Complex are under construction. Photo: F4E 16 February 2015 Download Part of the cryostat crown, in full scale Part of the cryostat crown and the ITER bioshield are being reproduced in this on-site mockup. For a structural element as complex and as strategic as the crown, which will support the weight of the machine and cryostat, this intermediate step is necessary to demonstrate constructability. Photo: F4E 15 February 2015 Download Standing tall This real-scale mockup of the Tokamak support system (cryostat crown and bioshield) has been under construction on the ITER site since late 2014. The mockup reproduces 1/18th of the support system. Photo: F4E 15 February 2015 Download That's crowded! The dense reinforcement of the ITER crown (a thick, circular concrete structure connected to the three-metre-thick bioshield by radial concrete walls) is illustrated in the real-size mockup currently under construction on the platform. Photo : F4E 15 February 2015 Download Flurries in February In the 80 x 120 metre Tokamak Pit, where scaffolding is up for the first basement-level walls, a few flurries in February complicated works.
12 February 2015 Download Basement-level walls The first B2-level wall is now in place on the Diagnostic Building side of the basemat. A gap of approximately 2 metres will separate the Tokamak Complex from the retaining walls; this gap will permit the Complex to move on its seismic pads as one block in the case of earthquake.
16 January 2015 Download The first wall of the Tokamak Complex In January, workers complete the first wall of the Diagnostics Building, on the south side of the Tokamak Complex.
16 January 2015 Download Wall pouring continues Three wall sections have been poured for the basement level walls of the Tokamak Complex. The formwork panels used to frame out the sections are assembled by fours before being transported by crane to the work area.
19 December 2014 Download Ready, set ...
Everything's ready for tomorrow's first pour in one corner of the Tokamak Complex Seismic Pit. Photo: F4E 18 December 2014 Download Long arms needed Pouring activities for the first basement-level walls of the Tokamak Complex are taking place approximately 12 metres below the level of the platform. Photo: F4E 29 November 2014 Download First two walls The first walls of the Tokamak Complex are going up in the southern corners of the Seismic Pit, at left (completed) and at right (underway). Photo: F4E 29 November 2014 Download In the basement of the Tokamak Complex The Tokamak Complex will be a seven-storey structure: two basement levels and five storeys. On 20 November 2014, pouring began for basement level B2.
20 November 2014 Download Level B2 Work on the first level walls of the Tokamak Complex (basement level B2) is expected to last until mid-2015.
20 November 2014 Download Walls: the first pour Concrete pouring for the first wall of the Diagnostics Building takes place on 20 November.
20 November 2014 Download Where the work is starting The ITER Tokamak Complex Seismic Pit: 120 metres long, 80 metres wide.
18 November 2014 Download Prepared for heavy loads A third crane is now in place in the centre of the basemat. Five tall cranes—one on every corner and one in the centre—will soon be in place for the construction of the Tokamak Complex.
28 October 2014 Download First walls in November Scaffolding, reinforcement bars - everything is ready for the first Tokamak Complex walls to be poured in November.
28 October 2014 Download Looking up At its final height, the Tokamak Complex will be nearly as tall as the crane at left—60 metres above platform level.
28 October 2014 Download Giants Three of the five cranes planned for Tokamak Complex construction activities will rise over 75 metres (76 m, 80 m and 82 m) and have lifting capacities of 6-8 tons at the tip of their 55- to 65-metre-long booms.
27 October 2014 Download A new phase for ITER Formwork is positioned for the first walls of the Diagnostics Building. The beginning of wall construction marks a new phase in ITER construction: the four-year drive to build the Tokamak Complex and eight other buildings. Photo: Engage 20 October 2014 Download Propping and formwork in October Propping work has begun on the south end of the Seismic Pit. In November, the first walls will be poured for the Diagnostics Building. Photo: Engage 20 October 2014 Download Tall cranes going up In one corner of the Seismic Pit, a tower crane is going up to prepare for the next phase of work: the pouring of the B2 slab that will act as a floor to the three buildings of the Tokamak Complex.
01 October 2014 Download A home for the Tokamak The 23,000-tonne ITER Tokamak will have a seven-storey home. Machine assembly will begin two levels underground.
Download The ITER Tokamak Complex Seven storeys tall—including two basement levels—the ITER Tokamak Complex is in fact three buildings: the Tokamak Building (centre), the Tritium Building (left) and the Diagnostics Building (right).
Download Click for full screen 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 ' + currentmenu.text() + ' Construction Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR The Tokamak Complex The Tokamak Complex The seven-storey, 400,000-tonne Tokamak Complex is nearly complete. In the centre is the machine well, or pit, where machine assembly is underway.
Start of construction: 2014 Amount of steel reinforcement: 30,000 tonnes Concrete required: 100,000 cubic metres Thickness of basemat: 1.5 metres Number of stories: 7 Total weight (buildings, equipment and machinery): 440,000 tonnes Contractor for civil work (TB03): French-Spanish consortium VFR (VINCI Construction Grands Projets, Razel-Bec, Dodin Campenon Bernard, Campenon Bernard Sud-Est, GTM Sud, Chantiers Modernes Sud, Ferrovial Agroman) Contractor for mechanical and electrical equipment (TB04): Franco-German consortium GDF Suez Group/M+W Group Tritium Building | Final concrete pour and other updates Tokamak Building | Civil engineering officially complete Tritium Building | Work resumes Port cells | All 46 doors in place Assembly preparation | Off goes the lid Council milestone #50 | The way to assembly is open Roof modules | Patience, precision and a crane's long arm Tokamak Building | Civil works completed Tokamak Pit | Big steel elbow in place Nuclear doors | Lifting a sixty-tonne leaf Tank installation | Seven in one blow Concrete pouring | The "slump test" ritual Borated concrete | An insatiable appetite for neutrons The crown | Unique but inspired by history Tokamak Complex | Interior design Crown mockup | Answering questions 3D models can't The ring fortress A tokamak must breathe Trying on the Tokamak crown A five-storey "Diagnostic Hotel" Record building contract awarded by Europe Tokamak Complex construction is about to begin First four levels of Tokamak Complex now defined FOR THE PUBLIC Jobs About ITER FAQs Photos Visits Education Donate/Sponsor FOR THE PRESS All News Welcome Facts and Figures ITER Milestones Press Releases Fusion Glossary FOR SCIENTISTS ITPA Fusion Links Conferences How to Publish ITER Technical Reports ITER International School FOR INDUSTRY Procurement Intellectual Property Foreign Workers in France Business Events INTRANET Intranet Sitemap Terms of use Privacy Policy © 2023, ITER Organization ITER Assembly Live Event - 28 JULY The event will be live-streamed, in three parts (all times listed are French local times): 10:00 a.m. — Tour of the ITER worksite and large components on site 11:00 a.m. — Ceremony, including statements by world leaders 12:30 a.m. (or following the ceremony) — Press conference
