Master's in Data Science - NYU Center for Data Science
2023
https://cds.nyu.edu/masters-faq

NYU Center for Data Science Harnessing Data’s Potential for the World About Overview Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion About Community Partners Program Stats and Plans Contact Communications CDS Updates Community Newsletter Our People Faculty Joint Associated Visiting Affiliated Affiliated Shanghai Clinical Adjunct Leadership Fellows, Research Engineers, Research Scientists, and Postdocs Data Science Faculty Fellows Research Engineers & Research Scientists Postdoc Researchers Affiliated Postdocs Staff PhD Students PhD Alumni Past Members Research Research Home CDS Research Groups Faculty Research Areas Faculty Honors Academics PhD Program Overview Areas & Faculty Curriculum Admission Requirements FAQ Medical School Track NRT FUTURE Program Master’s Program Overview Curriculum Industry Concentration Tracks Admission Requirements FAQ Capstone Project Summer Initiative Financial Aid MS Admissions Ambassadors Undergraduate Program Overview Major in Data Science Minor in Data Science Joint Majors FAQ Contact Non-Degree Program Overview Curriculum Admission Requirements FAQ Apply Now Student Career Placement & Professional Development Overview Our Students: Career and Placement Information Alumni Spotlights Student Groups CDS Alumni Council Student Fellowships & Awards CDS Academic Integrity Statement and Policy Open House Webinars The CDS Podcast CDS Online Yann LeCun’s Deep Learning Course at CDS Mathematical Tools for Data Science Brave New World Podcast Partnerships Partners Program Partnership Research Initiatives Executive Education Events CDS Events Feed The Math and Data (MaD) Seminar MaD+ Seminar Series NLP and Text-as-Data Speaker Series Computational Biology & Medicine Colloquium Data Science Lunch Seminar Series The Math and Democracy Seminar Data Science Graduate Student Seminar AI, Misinformation, and Policy Seminar Series Jobs Faculty & Staff Positions Faculty Fellows Positions Initiatives Current Initiatives AI@NYU Center for Responsible AI CURP CURP Summer 2023 Cohort CURP Summer 2022 Cohort CURP Spring 2022 Cohort CURP Spring 2021 Cohort Minds, Brains, & Machines Past Initiatives DS3 Moore-Sloan Overview Seed Grant Summer Research Initiative Showcase Community Newsletter Search for: Search for: Master’s in Data Science MS in Data Science Overview Curriculum Industry Concentration Tracks Admission Requirements FAQ Capstone Project Summer Research Initiative Financial Aid MS Admissions Ambassadors FAQ FAQ Overview Curriculum Industry Concentration Tracks Admission Requirements FAQ Capstone Project Summer Initiative Financial Aid Academics Where can I find the academic integrity policy? NYU’s academic integrity policy can be found on the NYU Academic Integrity page.
 NYU’s Statement on Academic Integrity is also posted at Citation Style Guide: NYU Statement on Academic Integrity.
GSAS’ statement academic integrity can be found on our GSAS Statement On Academic Integrity.
What should I do if I have questions about the academic integrity policy? If you have questions about the academic integrity policy, please reach out to faculty and/or the CDS Director of Academic Affairs, Kathryn Angeles, who can be reached at kangeles@nyu.edu.
What citation and data management resources are available to me as a Data Science student? There are several resources that you can reach out to if you have questions about citation and data management.
Our library liaison for the Center for Data Science is Vicky Steeves. You can reach out to her with questions at vicky.steeves@nyu.edu.
 A link to her Data Citation workshop presentation can be found the Citing and Being Cited page.
A data management guide can be found on our Data Management Planning page.
A citation guide can be found at our Citation Style Guide home page.
Are students required to take courses every semester? Students are required to be continuously enrolled every fall and spring semester. If there is a semester where you do not want to take courses, please reach out to cds-masters@nyu.edu to discuss options. This requirement is not applicable to the summer semester.
What is a full-time course load for CDS students? What is a part-time course load for CDS students? Full-time CDS students register for 9 credits.
Part-time students register for less than 9 credits.
What can I expect regarding workload? Students should plan on spending 10-15 hours per week per data science course, assuming they have all the prerequisites. The data science courses are graduate level courses which go extremely quickly and it is difficult to catch up if you fall behind. Use your resources and ask questions! Is there a minimum GPA for the program? Yes, each semester, students must have a minimum GPA of 3.0 and must successfully complete 66% of credits attempted.
Where can I find the MS in Data Science curriculum? This information can be found on our Course Curriculum page.
What is the process for waiving required Data Science courses? Of the required Data Science courses, only DS-GA 1002 may be waived. Incoming new students will receive information about the waiver process, but generally the following information needs to be submitted and reviewed: Undergraduate or Graduate Transcripts (Must be translated) The course(s) that you will be using to waive the required course should be highlighted. The grade(s) you received in the course(s) should be highlighted as well.
Syllabi of the course(s) that you will be using to waive the required course (Must be translated) If available, course website Where can I find important registration dates (add/drop deadline, late registration start, etc.)? The academic calendar will have this information, which you can find on our Academic Calendar page.
I’m having trouble with Albert and registration. What should I do? Registration help guides can be found on the Registering on Albert page.
 There are guides on add/drop, the swap function, and other important registration steps.
I want to register for a non-Data Science course? What should I do? Email Tina Lam ( tina.lam@nyu.edu ) the course information. She will advise on the registration process for that particular department or school.
Where can I find a list of approved electives for the MSDS program? This information can be found on our Course Curriculum page.
There is a course that I would like to take as an elective for the MSDS program, but it is not on the pre-approved elective list.
 What should I do? Please complete the Elective Request for DS Students Google Form.
You will be asked for the below information.
Course information Course syllabus Relevance of course to MSDS degree and goals If available, course website If you have any questions, please contact Tina Lam ( tina.lam@nyu.edu ).
How many independent study (DS-GA 1010) credits can I apply to the MSDS degree? MSDS students can apply up to 6 credits of independent study (DS-GA 1010) to the MSDS degree.
Can I take a course pass/fail and count it towards the MSDS degree? Only 1 elective (this does not include the “One Data Science Elective” requirement) and DS-GA 1009 can be taken as pass/fail and count towards the MSDS degree. Students in the Industry Concentration can use their 1 elective allowance for an Industry Concentration elective. Students cannot take required courses for the degree as pass/fail.
I will be ready to graduate at the end of this semester. What should I do? You will need to apply for graduation during the graduation application period. For information on how to apply and the deadlines, visit the NYU Applying for Graduation page.
If you have other questions for this page, please email cds-masters@nyu.edu.
Admissions Where can I find general information about NYU’s MS in Data Science program? Navigate to our Master’s in Data Science Admissions page.
Where can I find general information about NYU’s PhD in Data Science program? Navigate to our PhD Overview page.
Is the degree offered online? No, we do not have an online program.
Do you have spring admissions? We do not have spring admissions. We only offer fall admissions and applications are typically available in September. Please see the GSAS Data Science Application Deadlines page for more information.
Can Data Science students pursue a dual degree? No, unfortunately, there are no dual data science degrees at this time. However, the data science curriculum allows students to take electives within various departments outside of Data Science.
Is the program available to full-time employees and/or part-time students? Both full-time and part-time students are welcome. Please also note that we try to schedule required courses in the evenings, but this is not guaranteed. Full-time working students should have the flexibility to take required courses in the daytime if needed.
Can I work full-time while taking classes? The suggested full-time program is 9 credits per semester. Because of the heavy workload, 9 credits will equal out to about 40 hours of work per week. Students should be able to work while taking classes, but due to the amount of work required for the program, we suggest taking 6 or less credits per semester if you have a full-time job. We try to schedule required courses in the evenings, but this is not guaranteed. Full-time working students should have the flexibility to take required courses in the daytime if needed.
Will most of the classes be offered at night? We try to schedule required courses in the evenings, but this is not guaranteed. Full-time working students should have the flexibility to take required courses in the daytime if needed. Elective courses are offered both during the day and in the evenings.
May I apply for more than one graduate degree at NYU? That depends on how your multiple applications are split up over the NYU schools. You can apply concurrently to as many NYU schools as you wish. Some schools allow you to apply to multiple programs. However, the MS in Data Science is part of the Graduate School of Arts and Science, which permits only one application at a time. Please note that you can find the full Graduate School of Arts and Science policy on the NYU GSAS General Application Policies page.
May I take courses without applying for a degree? Yes, we do admit non-degree students. See GSAS Non-Degree and Visiting Student Application for Admission page for more information on the application process. There is a limit on the number of such courses you can take as a non-degree student.
I would like to transfer to the MS in Data Science Program at NYU. What is the process? We do not allow students to transfer into the MS in Data Science program. All students must submit a new student application. Please also note that we do not accept transfer credits from outside the university into the MS program.
I’m currently a student at NYU. How can I apply for the MS in Data Science? Students enrolled in any other NYU graduate program (including Courant) must submit a new application for the next available admissions cycle. We do not accept internal transfers.
What are the prerequisites for admission to the MS program? Please see our Master’s Admissions Requirements page.
What degree must I have in order to enroll? Please see the GSAS FAQs here regarding the required academic transcripts.
Is work experience required? While many of our students have work experience, it is not required.
Do I have enough programming experience? See our Master’s Admission Requirements page for the prerequisite information.
Which programming languages will be used in each course? Programming languages are decided by the professor of each course. However, over the past few years, Python has been widely used.
How much linear algebra do I need to have taken? One undergraduate course (or equivalent) is sufficient. Please see our admissions and educational prerequisites for more information.
Which courses are required for an MS in Data Science? The course curriculum for an MS in Data Science can be found on our Master’s Curriculum page.
Who will be teaching? Instructors for required courses are from across all of the NYU schools.
What type of classes will be offered as electives? Pre-approved electives can be found on the Master’s Curriculum page.
 Students with an interest in related courses not on the pre-approved elective list may request approval to apply the course to the degree. Generally, any graduate-level course at NYU on data science-related disciplines (e.g. optimization, probability, statistics) or data science related domains (e.g. biology, economics, physics, business, sociology, urban science) may be requested. The design of the program has 6 electives and 6 required courses so that students can pursue their interests in data science disciplines or in data science domains.
How many courses should I plan to take each semester? The full-time program is designed to be 4 semesters (Fall and Spring). The suggested full-time workload is three 3-credit courses per semester totaling 9 credits per semester. We do not recommend more than 3 courses per semester, as most courses have both significant mathematical content and programming assignments. Please see the typical 4-semester course plan on the Curriculum webpage.
Are international students accepted? NYU seeks talented students from every corner of the globe.
Are there different requirements for international students? For more information for international students interested in the MS in Data Science program, please visit the NYU Graduate School of Arts and Science website.
Will CPT or OPT be offered? Yes, CPT and OPT are options for Data Science students. CPT is “curricular practical training,” a program which allows international students to obtain paid internships for credit after the first year of the degree.
OPT is “optional practical training,” a program which allows international students to obtain paid internships without credit either during or after the degree. We are a STEM eligible program.
Can test scores be received after the application deadline? Test scores must be received by the application deadline. Please see the GSAS Admissions FAQ on how to confirm your test scores have been received.
If I am denied admission, can I apply again? Yes, you may apply again by submitting a new application and supplemental material. Please see the GSAS Admissions FAQ for more information.
I am rejected, can I receive feedback? Unfortunately, due to a high volume of applications, reviewers cannot provide feedback on why an application was rejected.
Can you review my profile to let me know if I will be admitted? We do not provide pre-application reviews regarding a candidate’s viability. Please review the below links which should give you a general idea of how you compare to past successful applications: Admissions Requirements CDS Past Open House Webinars The CDS Admissions Podcast Applications Where do I mail official transcripts? Copies of your official transcripts should be uploaded with your application. If you are accepted, the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences will request a mailed copy of your transcripts. Please note that only electronic submissions will be accepted in the application. Please see the GSAS Admissions FAQs for more information.
I am having technical problems with the online application system – who should I contact? Please contact GSAS Graduate Enrollment Services at gsas.admissions@nyu.edu.
What is the application deadline? Please visit the NYU GSAS Data Science page.
I am very interested in the Data Science program, but I do not have a strong background in math. Can I still apply? A strong background in math is not required, but there are prerequisites that should be met – please see the Admissions Requirements page for more information.
What do I do if one my references can’t use the online recommendation system? Please review the Graduate School of Arts and Science’s FAQ section for the policies regarding letters of recommendation.
Standardized Testing Do I need to take the GRE or GMAT to apply? If so, what scores will be accepted? We do not accept GMAT scores. The GRE is optional. For more information regarding the GRE exam, visit the ETS website.
 Please also see the related GSAS Admissions FAQ section for more information on standardized testing.
What is the minimum cutoff for GRE, IELTS, and TOEFL? Many factors are taken into account by the admissions committee. There is no minimum cutoff for standardized tests. However, for the IELTS, there is a recommended minimum band score of 7.0. For the TOEFL, there is a recommended minimum score of 100 on the internet-based test.
Is it possible to waive the TOEFL or IELTS? The Graduate School requires applicants who are not native English speakers to submit official TOEFL or IELTS score results. The TOEFL/IELTS requirement is waived if your baccalaureate or master’s degree was (or will be) completed at an institution where the language of instruction is English. Please see the related GSAS Admissions FAQ section for more information.
What are the Institutional and Department Codes for the GRE and the TOEFL? Please see the related GSAS Admissions FAQs here for more information. We cannot obtain test scores if they were sent to any other school or program at NYU.
Financial How much does the program cost? Tuition and fees for the current academic year can be found on the Graduate School of Arts and Science Tuition and Fees page.
Does NYU offer financial aid and/or scholarships? Please see our Financial Aid page.
How do I apply for the DeepMind Scholarship or other tuition scholarships? CDS offers a limited number of tuition scholarships for our students. All applicants for admission were considered for these awards on a competitive basis. Scholarship recipients will be notified in their admit letter.
Are paid research/teaching assistant positions available? On-campus positions are available at CDS and NYU, but we do not guarantee such opportunities for any given student. Positions are competitive, and are typically posted on a semester by semester basis.
Miscellaneous Where else can I learn more about the application process? Please visit the GSAS Application Resource page for more FAQs.
I was accepted into the program, but would like to defer my admission. Is this possible? The Center for Data Science will not approve a request for deferral of admission. If an admitted student wishes to delay enrollment, it will be necessary to turn down the offer of admission and reapply for admission the following year. A completely new application will be required. The new application will be considered along with all other applications at that later time.
Are there any internships or volunteer opportunities in NYU Data Science? The NYU Center for Data Science provides opportunities for CDS students to connect with companies through various career and professional development initiatives. Please see our Career Placement and Professional Development page for more information.
How can I apply for an administrative position in the NYU Data Science department? Available administrative positions will be posted on the NYU Careers page.
What if my visa is delayed or if I encounter issues securing a visa? All visa and immigration related questions should be directed to the NYU Office of Global Services.
©2023 NYU CDS 7th floor, 60 5th Ave, New York, NY, 10011 NYU Center for Data Science About Overview Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion About Community Partners Program Stats and Plans Back Contact Communications CDS Updates Community Newsletter Back Back Our People Faculty Joint Associated Visiting Affiliated Affiliated Shanghai Clinical Adjunct Back Leadership Fellows, Research Engineers, Research Scientists, and Postdocs Data Science Faculty Fellows Research Engineers & Research Scientists Postdoc Researchers Affiliated Postdocs Back Staff PhD Students PhD Alumni Back Past Members Back Research Research Home CDS Research Groups Faculty Research Areas Faculty Honors Back Academics PhD Program Overview Areas & Faculty Curriculum Admission Requirements FAQ Medical School Track NRT FUTURE Program Back Master’s Program Overview Curriculum Industry Concentration Tracks Admission Requirements FAQ Capstone Project Summer Initiative Financial Aid MS Admissions Ambassadors Back Undergraduate Program Overview Major in Data Science Minor in Data Science Joint Majors FAQ Contact Back Non-Degree Program Overview Curriculum Admission Requirements FAQ Apply Now Back Student Career Placement & Professional Development Overview Our Students: Career and Placement Information Alumni Spotlights Back Student Groups CDS Alumni Council Student Fellowships & Awards CDS Academic Integrity Statement and Policy Open House Webinars The CDS Podcast Back CDS Online Yann LeCun’s Deep Learning Course at CDS Mathematical Tools for Data Science Brave New World Podcast Back Partnerships Partners Program Partnership Research Initiatives Executive Education Back Events CDS Events Feed The Math and Data (MaD) Seminar MaD+ Seminar Series NLP and Text-as-Data Speaker Series Computational Biology & Medicine Colloquium Data Science Lunch Seminar Series The Math and Democracy Seminar Data Science Graduate Student Seminar AI, Misinformation, and Policy Seminar Series Back Jobs Faculty & Staff Positions Faculty Fellows Positions Back Initiatives Current Initiatives AI@NYU Center for Responsible AI CURP CURP Summer 2023 Cohort CURP Summer 2022 Cohort CURP Spring 2022 Cohort CURP Spring 2021 Cohort Back Minds, Brains, & Machines Back Past Initiatives DS3 Moore-Sloan Overview Seed Grant Summer Research Initiative Showcase Community Newsletter Back Back Back
