PhD in Data Science - NYU Center for Data Science
2023
https://cds.nyu.edu/phd-curriculum-info

NYU Center for Data Science Harnessing Data’s Potential for the World About Overview Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion About Community Partners Program Stats and Plans Contact Communications CDS Updates Community Newsletter Our People Faculty Joint Associated Visiting Affiliated Affiliated Shanghai Clinical Adjunct Leadership Fellows, Research Engineers, Research Scientists, and Postdocs Data Science Faculty Fellows Research Engineers & Research Scientists Postdoc Researchers Affiliated Postdocs Staff PhD Students PhD Alumni Past Members Research Research Home CDS Research Groups Faculty Research Areas Faculty Honors Academics PhD Program Overview Areas & Faculty Curriculum Admission Requirements FAQ Medical School Track NRT FUTURE Program Master’s Program Overview Curriculum Industry Concentration Tracks Admission Requirements FAQ Capstone Project Summer Initiative Financial Aid MS Admissions Ambassadors Undergraduate Program Overview Major in Data Science Minor in Data Science Joint Majors FAQ Contact Non-Degree Program Overview Curriculum Admission Requirements FAQ Apply Now Student Career Placement & Professional Development Overview Our Students: Career and Placement Information Alumni Spotlights Student Groups CDS Alumni Council Student Fellowships & Awards CDS Academic Integrity Statement and Policy Open House Webinars The CDS Podcast CDS Online Yann LeCun’s Deep Learning Course at CDS Mathematical Tools for Data Science Brave New World Podcast Partnerships Partners Program Partnership Research Initiatives Executive Education Events CDS Events Feed The Math and Data (MaD) Seminar MaD+ Seminar Series NLP and Text-as-Data Speaker Series Computational Biology & Medicine Colloquium Data Science Lunch Seminar Series The Math and Democracy Seminar Data Science Graduate Student Seminar AI, Misinformation, and Policy Seminar Series Jobs Faculty & Staff Positions Faculty Fellows Positions Initiatives Current Initiatives AI@NYU Center for Responsible AI CURP CURP Summer 2023 Cohort CURP Summer 2022 Cohort CURP Spring 2022 Cohort CURP Spring 2021 Cohort Minds, Brains, & Machines Past Initiatives DS3 Moore-Sloan Overview Seed Grant Summer Research Initiative Showcase Community Newsletter Search for: Search for: PhD in Data Science An NRT-sponsored program in Data Science PhD in Data Science Overview Areas & Faculty Curriculum Admission Requirements FAQ Medical School Track NRT FUTURE Program Curriculum Curriculum Overview Areas & Faculty Curriculum Admission Requirements FAQ Medical School Track NRT FUTURE Program Degree Requirements Degree requirements for the PhD in Data Science can be found in the GSAS bulletin – Doctor of Philosophy in Data Science.
To be awarded the Ph.D. in Data Science, students must, within 10 years of first enrolling: Complete 72 credit hours while maintaining a cumulative grade point average of 3.0 (out of 4.0) each semester.
Complete the teaching requirement (for incoming students Fall 2020 and later).
Pass a Comprehensive Exam.
Pass the Depth Qualifying Exam (DQE) by May 15 of their fourth semester.
Complete all the steps for approval of their Ph.D. dissertation.
For more information on the Ph.D.
curriculum and requirements please visit the Ph.D. Student Handbook.
 Please note you will only be able to access the handbook through your NYU email address.
Required Course Information Students must successfully complete the following courses by the end of their third semester unless otherwise stated or show evidence that they have taken equivalent coursework elsewhere. Recent course pages are linked below. Course descriptions can be found in NYU’s Albert Course Search.
DS-GA 2003 – Introduction to Data Science for PhD Students DS- GA 1002 – Probability and Statistics for Data Science DS-GA 1003 – Machine Learning DS-GA 1004 – Big Data (link is to syllabus of Spring 2020 course offering) DS-GA 1005 – Inference and Representation 18 credits of DS-GA 2001 – Research Rotation by end of 6th semester (for incoming students Fall 2020 and later).
A research rotation is a semester-long guided research experience in which the student will have an opportunity to design and carry out original research in a collaborative setting. The idea is to help students identify research interests. Ph.D. students take this course 6 times.
39 credit hours of elective courses (for incoming students starting Fall 2020 and later) Students must successfully complete 39 credit hours of elective courses. Faculty at the Center for Data Science are experts in a broad range of data science topics, and the Center’s course offerings reflect that diversity. For example, students will be able to take courses in Deep Learning, Optimization, and Natural Language Processing.
Some of the electives offered at the Center for Data Science are below. Please see NYU’s Albert Course Search for course descriptions.
Deep Learning (DS-GA 1008) Practical Training for Data Science (DS-GA 1009): Practical Training offers course credit for the academically relevant internship experience. This is an integral part of the Ph.D. Program curriculum and facilitates students with academic and professional development. The course allows students to apply their academic and research knowledge to real-world problems.
Independent Study (DS-GA 1010) Natural Language Processing with Representation Learning (DS-GA 1011) Natural Language Understanding and Computational Semantics (DS-GA 1012) Mathematical Tools for Data Science (DS-GA 1013) Optimization and Computational Linear Algebra (DS-GA 1014) Text as Data (DS-GA 1015) Computational Cognitive Modeling (DS-GA 1016) Responsible Data Science (DS-GA 1017) Probabilistic Time Series Analysis (DS-GA 1018) Communication Skills (DS-GA 2002) Students can take electives outside of the Center of Data Science with permission from the Director of Graduate Studies (DGS).
Typical Schedule (Incoming Students Fall 2020 and later) Typically, a student’s first 3 years will follow a schedule like the one outlined below. The student’s remaining years will consist of electives and work on his or her research and dissertation.
First year, Fall: 2 required courses and 1 research rotation course DS-GA 2003 Introduction to Data Science for PhD Students DS-GA 1002 Probability and Statistics for Data Science DS-GA-2001 Research Rotation First-year, Spring: 2 required courses and 1 research rotation course DS-GA 1003 Machine Learning DS-GA 1004 Big Data DS-GA 2001 Research Rotation Second-year, Fall: 1 required course, and 1 research rotation course, and 1 elective; identify research advisor DS-GA 1005 Inference and Representation DS-GA 2001 Research Rotation Approved elective Second-year, Spring: Research rotation course, 2 electives; pass the Depth Qualifying Exam DS-GA 2001 Research Rotation Approved Elective Approved Elective Third-year, Fall: Research rotation course, 2 electives DS-GA 2001 Approved Elective Approved Elective Third-year, Spring: Research rotation course, 2 electives DS-GA 2001 Research Rotation Approved Elective Approved Elective Teaching Requirement (for incoming students starting Fall 2020 and later) By the end of the fourth year of study, each student must have served as a section leader or instructor for at least two courses at the Center for Data Science (for students starting the program in Fall 2023 or later). For students who started the program between Fall 2020 – Fall 2022, the requirement is at least one course at the Center for Data Science.
Courses on related topics outside the Center may also be used to satisfy this requirement subject to approval by the DGS. The student must also participate in the Center’s teacher training session at or prior to the semester in which they teach. In certain circumstances, the DGS may allow the student to satisfy this requirement by serving as a course assistant or as a grader. These exceptions will be determined by the DGS based on the availability of suitable recitations.
Comprehensive Exam The comprehensive exam is designed to determine whether the candidate displays the requisite data science knowledge to pursue their research.
For students starting the program in Fall 2024 and later: To fulfill this requirement, students will submit a 4-page report describing their work during their first year and a plan of their future research at the end of their second semester. The student will also give a 10-minute presentation in front of a pre-committee of three faculty (which will include their research advisors). The committee will determine whether the student is progressing adequately based on their academic performance (including grades and feedback from course instructors), the presentation, and the report.
For students who started the program prior to Fall 2024: The comprehensive exam consists of material from DS-GA 1003 Machine Learning and DS-GA 1004 Big Data. To fulfill this requirement, students must receive an A- or above as their final grade for each of the courses above (for students starting Fall 2020 – Fall 2023).
 Students are expected to complete this requirement by the end of their second semester.
Depth Qualifying Exam (DQE) No later than the end of the third semester, each student must: Agree with a research advisor. The student is responsible for finding a research advisor, obtaining an agreement to advise the student, and informing the Director of Graduate Studies (DGS) of the agreement. Students must reach an agreement with the DGS and the Manager of Academic Affairs if they wish to change research advisors. If a research advisor determines that he or she no longer wishes to advise a student, the research advisor informs the DGS who will begin working with the student to find another research advisor.
Agree with his or her research advisor on a research project, an exam topic, and a Depth Qualifying Exam (DQE) committee.
Obtain the approval of the DGS on the research project, exam topic, and DQE committee, as well as the date of the DQE exam.
No later than the end of his fourth semester, the student must pass the depth qualifying exam (DQE). The exam may be taken no more than twice. The content of the exam is defined by the student’s DQE Committee, which must present a syllabus to the student at least 2 months before the date of the exam.
For incoming students Fall 2020 and later, the exam itself consists of a presentation by the student on original research carried out independently or in collaboration with faculty, research staff, or other students. This can include research done in the research rotations or other research conducted by the student in their area of interest. The goal of the DQE is to confirm the student’s knowledge of research in their area of interest.
Ph.D. Dissertation DISSERTATION PROPOSAL APPROVAL CDS PhD students are encouraged to identify their dissertation proposal committee by the end of their second year. Students should consult with their advisor and/or the DGS. The student works with their research advisor to select a dissertation proposal approval committee, obtains approval of this committee from the DGS, submits a written dissertation proposal to the committee, and obtains the approval of the committee. The committee consists of at least three members, which may consist of individuals with similar standing outside of CDS. At least one member must be a CDS faculty member (CDS joint faculty member, member of the CDS PhD Advisory Group, or CDS affiliated (see the Areas & Faculty page ). Students should have their dissertation proposal approved no later than the end of their third year. However, this is a guideline. Students are encouraged to identify timing of the dissertation proposal in consultation with their advisor and/or the DGS.
DISSERTATION APPROVAL A successful defense is required for award of the PhD.
The PhD defense committee must have at least 5 members, including the advisor(s), three of whom must be CDS faculty (CDS joint faculty member, member of the CDS PhD Advisory Group, or CDS affiliated (see Areas & Faculty page ), and 1 external member (in related area from another NYU department or from an area institution, with approval from DGS). The membership of the defense committee is proposed by the student and approved by the DGS.
In addition, students must comply with all of the procedures of NYU’s Graduate of School of Arts and Science related to the submission of their dissertation.
©2023 NYU CDS 7th floor, 60 5th Ave, New York, NY, 10011 NYU Center for Data Science About Overview Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion About Community Partners Program Stats and Plans Back Contact Communications CDS Updates Community Newsletter Back Back Our People Faculty Joint Associated Visiting Affiliated Affiliated Shanghai Clinical Adjunct Back Leadership Fellows, Research Engineers, Research Scientists, and Postdocs Data Science Faculty Fellows Research Engineers & Research Scientists Postdoc Researchers Affiliated Postdocs Back Staff PhD Students PhD Alumni Back Past Members Back Research Research Home CDS Research Groups Faculty Research Areas Faculty Honors Back Academics PhD Program Overview Areas & Faculty Curriculum Admission Requirements FAQ Medical School Track NRT FUTURE Program Back Master’s Program Overview Curriculum Industry Concentration Tracks Admission Requirements FAQ Capstone Project Summer Initiative Financial Aid MS Admissions Ambassadors Back Undergraduate Program Overview Major in Data Science Minor in Data Science Joint Majors FAQ Contact Back Non-Degree Program Overview Curriculum Admission Requirements FAQ Apply Now Back Student Career Placement & Professional Development Overview Our Students: Career and Placement Information Alumni Spotlights Back Student Groups CDS Alumni Council Student Fellowships & Awards CDS Academic Integrity Statement and Policy Open House Webinars The CDS Podcast Back CDS Online Yann LeCun’s Deep Learning Course at CDS Mathematical Tools for Data Science Brave New World Podcast Back Partnerships Partners Program Partnership Research Initiatives Executive Education Back Events CDS Events Feed The Math and Data (MaD) Seminar MaD+ Seminar Series NLP and Text-as-Data Speaker Series Computational Biology & Medicine Colloquium Data Science Lunch Seminar Series The Math and Democracy Seminar Data Science Graduate Student Seminar AI, Misinformation, and Policy Seminar Series Back Jobs Faculty & Staff Positions Faculty Fellows Positions Back Initiatives Current Initiatives AI@NYU Center for Responsible AI CURP CURP Summer 2023 Cohort CURP Summer 2022 Cohort CURP Spring 2022 Cohort CURP Spring 2021 Cohort Back Minds, Brains, & Machines Back Past Initiatives DS3 Moore-Sloan Overview Seed Grant Summer Research Initiative Showcase Community Newsletter Back Back Back
