PhD in Data Science - NYU Center for Data Science
2023
https://cds.nyu.edu/phd-faqs

NYU Center for Data Science Harnessing Data’s Potential for the World About Overview Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion About Community Partners Program Stats and Plans Contact Communications CDS Updates Community Newsletter Our People Faculty Joint Associated Visiting Affiliated Affiliated Shanghai Clinical Adjunct Leadership Fellows, Research Engineers, Research Scientists, and Postdocs Data Science Faculty Fellows Research Engineers & Research Scientists Postdoc Researchers Affiliated Postdocs Staff PhD Students PhD Alumni Past Members Research Research Home CDS Research Groups Faculty Research Areas Faculty Honors Academics PhD Program Overview Areas & Faculty Curriculum Admission Requirements FAQ Medical School Track NRT FUTURE Program Master’s Program Overview Curriculum Industry Concentration Tracks Admission Requirements FAQ Capstone Project Summer Initiative Financial Aid MS Admissions Ambassadors Undergraduate Program Overview Major in Data Science Minor in Data Science Joint Majors FAQ Contact Non-Degree Program Overview Curriculum Admission Requirements FAQ Apply Now Student Career Placement & Professional Development Overview Our Students: Career and Placement Information Alumni Spotlights Student Groups CDS Alumni Council Student Fellowships & Awards CDS Academic Integrity Statement and Policy Open House Webinars The CDS Podcast CDS Online Yann LeCun’s Deep Learning Course at CDS Mathematical Tools for Data Science Brave New World Podcast Partnerships Partners Program Partnership Research Initiatives Executive Education Events CDS Events Feed The Math and Data (MaD) Seminar MaD+ Seminar Series NLP and Text-as-Data Speaker Series Computational Biology & Medicine Colloquium Data Science Lunch Seminar Series The Math and Democracy Seminar Data Science Graduate Student Seminar AI, Misinformation, and Policy Seminar Series Jobs Faculty & Staff Positions Faculty Fellows Positions Initiatives Current Initiatives AI@NYU Center for Responsible AI CURP CURP Summer 2023 Cohort CURP Summer 2022 Cohort CURP Spring 2022 Cohort CURP Spring 2021 Cohort Minds, Brains, & Machines Past Initiatives DS3 Moore-Sloan Overview Seed Grant Summer Research Initiative Showcase Community Newsletter Search for: Search for: PhD in Data Science An NRT-sponsored program in Data Science PhD in Data Science Overview Areas & Faculty Curriculum Admission Requirements FAQ Medical School Track NRT FUTURE Program FAQ FAQ Overview Areas & Faculty Curriculum Admission Requirements FAQ Medical School Track NRT FUTURE Program Admissions May I apply for more than one graduate degree at NYU? That depends on how your multiple applications are split up over the NYU schools. You can apply concurrently to as many NYU schools as you wish. Some schools allow you to apply to multiple programs. However, the PhD in Data Science is part of the Graduate School of Arts and Science, which permits only one application at a time. Please note that you can find the full Graduate School of Arts and Science policy on the NYU GSAS General Application Policies page.
Can I apply to both MSDS and PhD? No, both programs are housed within the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, which permits only one application at a time.
Can I move into the PhD automatically after completing MSDS? No, you will need to apply to the PhD program.
May I take courses without applying for a degree? Yes, we do admit non-degree students. For more information on the application process, please see the GSAS Instructions For the Non-Degree and Visiting Student Application for Admission page.
 There is a limit on the number of such courses you can take as a non-degree student.
I’m currently a student at NYU. How can I apply for the PhD in Data Science? Students enrolled in any other NYU graduate program must submit a new application. NYU students enrolled in a Courant graduate degree must also submit a new application. Students in a Courant graduate program cannot apply for a transfer.
What are the admission requirements? See our PhD Admission Requirements page for the prerequisite information.
Are international students accepted? NYU seeks talented students from every corner of the globe.
Are there different requirements for international students? For more information for international students interested in the PhD in Data Science program, please visit the NYU Graduate School of Arts and Science website.
Can the test scores be received after the application deadline? Official test scores should be received by the application deadline.
If I am denied admission, can I apply again? Yes, you may apply again by submitting a new application and supplemental material. See related GSAS Application Policies here.
I am rejected, can I get a feedback? Unfortunately, due to a high volume of applications, reviewers cannot provide feedback on why an application was rejected.
Can Data Science students pursue a dual degree? No, unfortunately, there are no dual data science degrees at this time. However, the data science curriculum allows students to take electives within various departments outside of Data Science.
Applications Where do I mail official transcripts? Copies of your official transcripts should be uploaded with your application. If you are accepted, the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences will request a mailed copy of your transcripts. Please note that only electronic submissions will be accepted in the application.
See here for more information.
I am having technical problems with the online application system – who should I contact? gsas.admissions@nyu.edu What do I do if one of my references can’t use the online recommendation system? Please review the Graduate School of Arts and Science’s FAQ section for the policies regarding letters of recommendation.
Standardized Testing What is the minimum cutoff for IELTS and TOEFL? Many factors are taken into account by the admissions committee. There is no minimum cutoff for standardized tests. However, for the IELTS, there is a recommended minimum band score of 7.0. For the TOEFL, there is a recommended minimum score of 100 on the internet-based test.
Do I have to take GRE? The GRE is not required for Fall 2023 applicants. We will consider GRE test scores if they are submitted.
Is it possible to waive the TOEFL scores? The Graduate School requires applicants who are not native English speakers to submit official TOEFL or IELTS score results. The TOEFL/IELTS requirement is waived if your baccalaureate or master’s degree was (or will be) completed at an institution where the language of instruction is English.
See here for more information.
 Please contact gsas.admissions@nyu.edu if you have further questions.
What is the Center for Data Science School Code for the TOEFL? The school code for the TOEFL is 2596 (New York U Grad Arts Sci).
Financial Does NYU offer financial aid and/or scholarships? Current and past CDS PhD students admitted to our program have been offered fellowships covering tuition, fees, and health insurance. The fellowship includes a nine-month stipend, which for the 2023-2024 school year, is $39,430.38. These fellowship packages have been five year commitments. In addition to the fellowship, CDS has provided a one-time award for start-up expenses. PhD financial packages are reviewed on a yearly basis for new cohorts.
Miscellaneous Can I transfer credits? As per GSAS policy, admitted students may transfer up to 40 credits into the PhD program pending review and approval by the Director of Graduate Studies. Current students who are considering transfer credits should email Kathryn Angeles at kangeles@nyu.edu.
Is it possible to do the program part time? It is not possible to complete the PhD in Data Science program as a part-time student.
Which programming languages will be used in each course? Programming languages are decided by the professor of each course. However, over the past few years, Python has been widely used.
How many courses should I plan to take each semester? The suggested full-time workload is three 3-credit courses per semester totaling 9 credits per semester. We do not recommend more than 3 courses per semester, as most courses have both significant mathematical content and programming assignments.
Are there any internships or volunteer opportunities in NYU Data Science? The NYU Center for Data Science helps to provide robust internship opportunities with business partners in the New York area, including some of the world’s largest companies working in data science, artificial intelligence and machine learning. Many of these companies are within walking distance of the campus.
Are Teaching Assistant (TA) or Research Assistant (RA) positions available for students enrolled in the program? We do not use the term “Teaching Assistant” but we do sometimes have grading and section leader positions available for qualified students.
Is there an online option? No, we do not offer the course online.
©2023 NYU CDS 7th floor, 60 5th Ave, New York, NY, 10011 NYU Center for Data Science About Overview Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion About Community Partners Program Stats and Plans Back Contact Communications CDS Updates Community Newsletter Back Back Our People Faculty Joint Associated Visiting Affiliated Affiliated Shanghai Clinical Adjunct Back Leadership Fellows, Research Engineers, Research Scientists, and Postdocs Data Science Faculty Fellows Research Engineers & Research Scientists Postdoc Researchers Affiliated Postdocs Back Staff PhD Students PhD Alumni Back Past Members Back Research Research Home CDS Research Groups Faculty Research Areas Faculty Honors Back Academics PhD Program Overview Areas & Faculty Curriculum Admission Requirements FAQ Medical School Track NRT FUTURE Program Back Master’s Program Overview Curriculum Industry Concentration Tracks Admission Requirements FAQ Capstone Project Summer Initiative Financial Aid MS Admissions Ambassadors Back Undergraduate Program Overview Major in Data Science Minor in Data Science Joint Majors FAQ Contact Back Non-Degree Program Overview Curriculum Admission Requirements FAQ Apply Now Back Student Career Placement & Professional Development Overview Our Students: Career and Placement Information Alumni Spotlights Back Student Groups CDS Alumni Council Student Fellowships & Awards CDS Academic Integrity Statement and Policy Open House Webinars The CDS Podcast Back CDS Online Yann LeCun’s Deep Learning Course at CDS Mathematical Tools for Data Science Brave New World Podcast Back Partnerships Partners Program Partnership Research Initiatives Executive Education Back Events CDS Events Feed The Math and Data (MaD) Seminar MaD+ Seminar Series NLP and Text-as-Data Speaker Series Computational Biology & Medicine Colloquium Data Science Lunch Seminar Series The Math and Democracy Seminar Data Science Graduate Student Seminar AI, Misinformation, and Policy Seminar Series Back Jobs Faculty & Staff Positions Faculty Fellows Positions Back Initiatives Current Initiatives AI@NYU Center for Responsible AI CURP CURP Summer 2023 Cohort CURP Summer 2022 Cohort CURP Spring 2022 Cohort CURP Spring 2021 Cohort Back Minds, Brains, & Machines Back Past Initiatives DS3 Moore-Sloan Overview Seed Grant Summer Research Initiative Showcase Community Newsletter Back Back Back
