Bioinformatics and Theoretical Systems Biology MRes | Study | Imperial College London
2023
https://www.imperial.ac.uk/study/pg/life-sciences/bioinformatics

Imperial College London Imperial College London Latest News Imperial launches its biggest ever scholarship programme for Indian scientists New £28m Centre to forge the next generation of AI digital healthcare innovators Research with AMD to optimise computer hardware for AI Main Navigation Study Close Study overview Courses Top Links Search our courses Explore subject areas Chat to our students Chat to our graduates Request information Continuing professional development Executive education Adult education classes Admissions Top Links How to apply Fees and funding Accommodation Student visas and immigration Events, tasters and talks Visit us Undergraduate Open Days Summer schools Virtual tour Help centre Find answers to frequently asked questions about studying at Imperial International students Learn more about what Imperial has to offer students from around the world Student life Discover more about our entrepreneurial community, and life in London Research & Innovation Close Research and Innovation Research support At a glance Support for staff Support for partners and business ICT research computing support About Imperial research At a glance A-Z all research groups Our research culture Research Excellence Framework (REF) Global Institutes Centres of Excellence Networks of Excellence Funding opportunities Impact case studies Read case studies about Imperial research that has made a difference Research news The latest research news from across the College Enterprise Learn how we support entrepreneurship and find research-driven solutions Be Inspired Close Be Inspired Take part Top links Schools Outreach What's on at Imperial Staff and student volunteering Engage online Top links Imperial news Imperial Magazine Imperial College Podcast Societal engagement The Great Exhibition Road Festival Imperial Lates Social media directory Imperial Stories The very best features and opinion from the Imperial community Student stories Find out about life on campus from our team of student bloggers Imperial Today Subscribe to our daily newsletter and receive the best stories from Imperial direct to your inbox About Close About Our leadership and strategy Overview College Strategy 2020-2025 Academic Strategy College governance League tables Global Imperial Our people and values At a glance President Provost Our values and behaviours Recognising our people Alumni stories Equality diversity and inclusion Our faculties and departments Faculty of Engineering Faculty of Medicine Faculty of Natural Sciences Imperial College Business School Our campuses Explore our London locations Leading the world Imperial is a world top ten university with a global reputation Imperial Zero Pollution Our vision is to realise a sustainable, zero pollution future News What's on News Give A-Z Close Faculties and departments Multidisciplinary networks, centres and institutes Research groups People finder Administration and support services Information for Close Prospective students Current students Alumni Staff Jobs at Imperial Partners and business Media Donors Parents Conference organisers Study Section Navigation Close Study Overview Course search Apply Undergraduate Entry requirements Accepted qualifications Application process Choose a course Deadlines Personal statement Application reference Teacher reference guidance Contextual admissions schemes Admissions tests Interviews Our selection process Exam results: What next? Offer holders Submit offer conditions Request a deferral Postgraduate taught Entry requirements Accepted qualifications Application process Choose a course Personal statement Deadlines Application fee Application fee waiver Application reference Interviews Offer holders Submit offer conditions Request a deferral Postgraduate doctoral Entry requirements Accepted qualifications Application process Choose a course PhD Split PhD Professional Doctorate Integrated PhD PRI scheme Advanced standing Application reference Finding a supervisor Writing a research proposal Interview Offer holders Submit offer conditions Request a deferral English language requirements English language exemption Visiting students Contact Fees and funding Undergraduate Tuition fees Bursaries, grants and scholarships Imperial Bursary Sanctuary scholarships NHS Bursary for Medicine students Search our scholarships IB Excellence scholarships Presidential scholarships for students of Black heritage External scholarships Loans Tuition fee loan Maintenance loan Repaying your UK government loans Student loans for US students Student loans for Canadian students Postgraduate taught Tuition fees Grants and scholarships Search our scholarships Presidential scholarships for students of Black heritage Sanctuary scholarships International scholarship collaborations British Council Scholarships for Women in STEM COLFUTURO & Imperial College London Joint Graduate Loan-Scholarship DAAD Scholarships External scholarships Charitable grants and trusts Loans Postgraduate Master's Loan Repaying your loan Student loans for US students Student loans for Canadian students Postgraduate doctoral Tuition fees Grants and scholarships Search our scholarships President's PhD scholarships Research Council studentships (PhD) International scholarship collaborations British Council Scholarships for Women in STEM COLFUTURO & Imperial College London Joint Graduate Loan-Scholarship DAAD Scholarships External scholarships Charitable grants and trusts Loans Postgraduate Doctoral Loan Repaying your loan Student loans for US students Student loans for Canadian students Tuition fees How to pay Payment terms Self-funding students Sponsored students Visiting students Payment in instalments Tuition fee refunds Postgraduate early payment discount Postgraduate application deposits Refunds Staff tuition fee discount Goods and Services Tax (GST) Fee status Student visa financial requirements Equivalent or lower qualifications Search our scholarships Living costs Contact Student life Reputation and rankings Careers and entrepreneurship An Imperial education I-Explore Study abroad Imperial–MIT student exchange International Research Opportunities Programme Undergraduate Research Opportunities Programme Societies, clubs and culture Accommodation Central London location Our student community My Imperial story Undergraduate Postgraduate taught Postgraduate doctoral Support and wellbeing Visit Undergraduate Open Days Teachers and advisers' conference In-person information appointments Postgraduate In-person information appointments Summer schools Summer schools for high school students Summer schools for current undergraduates On-demand talks and tasters Campus tours School groups University groups Self-guided tour Events Contact Help centre Undergraduate admissions Postgraduate admissions Tuition fees Funding and scholarships Student support Contact Request info International students Information by region Africa Caribbean Central and South America East Asia Europe Middle East North America Oceania Russia and Central Asia South Asia South East Asia Imperial visits you Ask us a question International student support Policy on international agents Information for international counsellors Contact us Course compare 0 Postgraduate taught MRes Bioinformatics and Theoretical Systems Biology Gain the skills to produce effective research in bioinformatics and theoretical systems biology Overview Structure Entry requirements How to apply Gain the skills to produce effective research in bioinformatics and theoretical systems biology Liaise with leading biologists, mathematicians and computing specialists Plan and execute an individual research project and become comfortable using modelling software Course key facts Qualification MRes Duration 1 year Start date September 2024 Study mode Full-time Fees £15,150 Home £37,100 Overseas Delivered by Department of Life Sciences Location South Kensington Minimum entry standard 2:1 in a biological/biomedical/bioengineering, clinical or physical sciences, computational, or mathematical subject.
Course overview Build the multidisciplinary skills required to produce effective research in bioinformatics and theoretical systems biology on this Master's course.
Taught by experts in relevant fields, you'll acquire core biological, computational and mathematics expertise through lectures, practical classes and assignments.
This course will help you enhance your research techniques, including in information and data retrieval, study design, and data analysis and statistics.
You'll also liaise with biologists, mathematicians and computing specialists to produce a series of research projects throughout the academic year.
Structure This page is updated regularly to reflect the latest version of the curriculum. However, this information is subject to change.
Find out more about potential course changes.
Core modules Computing Project Bioinformatics and Systems Biology Project You'll complete the following core modules.
Core modules Bioinformatics and Theoretical Systems Biology This module starts with an introduction to molecular and cellular and systems biology, and is particularly aimed at students from a non biological background. It is then followed by in-depth lectures on protein annotation, genome annotation, statistical genetics, systems modelling, and machine learning.
Mathematics and Computing The Mathematics and Computing module starts with an introduction to calculus aimed at those who did not study beyond an elementary level, or require a refresher. The course proceeds with both mathematical modelling, particularly solving differential equations and statistics. The computing language currently taught is Python.
Reinforce your programming skills and experience the creation of code in detail. This is normally undertaken as a group project and runs for about 11 weeks.
Apply your skills obtained from the course in a research environment.
You'll become part of your host laboratory within Imperial, including associated hospitals and Silwood Park.
Many of these projects contribute directly to scientific publications.
The project runs for about 22 weeks.
Teaching and assessment Teaching and learning methods Lectures Computing labs Practical classes Presentations and seminars Group work Virtual learning environment Lecture recordings Projects and assignments Independent study Balance of assessment Key Projects Examinations and coursework 70% Projects 30% Examinations and coursework Assessment methods Coursework Written exams Dissertation Computer and mathematics assignments Individual research project Presentations Group report Oral exam Entry requirements We consider all applicants on an individual basis, welcoming students from all over the world.
Minimum academic requirement English language requirement International qualifications 2:1 in a biological/biomedical/bioengineering, clinical or physical sciences, computational, or mathematical subject.
Footnotes Previous experience in computational or mathematical biology and computer programming is preferred.
All candidates must demonstrate a minimum level of English language proficiency for admission to the College.
For admission to this course, you must achieve the standard College requirement in the appropriate English language qualification. For details of the minimum grades required to achieve this requirement, please see the English language requirements for postgraduate applicants.
We also accept a wide variety of international qualifications.
The academic requirement above is for applicants who hold or who are working towards a UK qualification.
For guidance see our accepted qualifications though please note that the standards listed are the minimum for entry to the College , and not specifically this Department.
If you have any questions about admissions and the standard required for the qualification you hold or are currently studying then please contact the relevant admissions team.
How to apply Apply online You can submit one application form per year of entry. You can choose up to two courses.
Application deadlines – Round 1 closes on Friday 3 November 2023 Application rounds We operate a staged admissions process with several application rounds throughout the year.
Apply by midnight (UK time) on the relevant application round deadline to ensure that you receive the outcome of your application by the decision date.
We recommend applying as early as you can – we cannot guarantee that places will be available, or that courses will remain open, in later rounds.
Application rounds Round 1 Apply by 3 November 2023 Decision by 16 December 2023 Round 2 Apply by 19 January 2024 Decision by 9 March 2024 Round 3 Apply by 29 March 2024 Decision by 11 May 2024 Round 4 Apply by 24 May 2024 Decision by 27 July 2024 Round 5 Apply by 5 July 2024 Decision by 3 August 2024 Application fee There is no application fee for MRes courses, Postgraduate Certificates, Postgraduate Diplomas, or courses such as PhDs and EngDs.
If you are applying for a taught Master’s course, you will need to pay an application fee before submitting your application.
The fee applies per application and not per course.
£80 for all taught Master's applications, excluding those to the Imperial College Business School.
£100 for all MSc applications to the Imperial College Business School.
£150 for all MBA applications to the Imperial College Business School.
If you are facing financial hardship and are unable to pay the application fee, we encourage you to apply for our application fee waiver.
Read full details about the application fee and waiver Application process Find out more about how to apply for a Master's course , including references and personal statements.
ATAS certificate (overseas candidates) Unless you are from an exempt nationality, you will need an ATAS certificate to obtain your visa and study this course.
Nationals from the following countries are exempt: Switzerland, Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, USA and EEA members.
Use this information when applying for an ATAS certificate to study this course: CAH code : CAH03-01-02 Descriptor : biology (non-specific) Supervisor name : Professor Daniel Davis Get guidance and support for obtaining an ATAS certificate.
Tuition fees Home fee Overseas fee Home fee 2024 entry £15,150 Inflationary increases You should expect and budget for your fees to increase each year.
Your fee is based on the year you enter the College, not your year of study. This means that if you repeat a year or resume your studies after an interruption, your fees will only increase by the amount linked to inflation.
Find out more about our tuition fees payment terms , including how inflationary increases are applied to your tuition fees in subsequent years of study.
Which fee you pay Whether you pay the Home or Overseas fee depends on your fee status. This is assessed based on UK Government legislation and includes things like where you live and your nationality or residency status. Find out how we assess your fee status.
Postgraduate Master's Loan If you're a UK national, or EU national with settled or pre-settled status under the EU Settlement Scheme, you may be able to apply for a Postgraduate Master’s Loan from the UK government, if you meet certain criteria.
The government has not yet published the loan amount for students starting courses in Autumn 2024. As a guide, the maximum value of the loan was £12,167 for courses starting on or after 1 August 2023.
The loan is not means-tested and you can choose whether to put it towards your tuition fees or living costs.
Overseas fee 2024 entry £37,100 Inflationary increases You should expect and budget for your fees to increase each year.
Your fee is based on the year you enter the College, not your year of study. This means that if you repeat a year or resume your studies after an interruption, your fees will only increase by the amount linked to inflation.
Find out more about our tuition fees payment terms , including how inflationary increases are applied to your tuition fees in subsequent years of study.
Which fee you pay Whether you pay the Home or Overseas fee depends on your fee status. This is assessed based on UK Government legislation and includes things like where you live and your nationality or residency status. Find out how we assess your fee status.
Postgraduate Master's Loan If you're a UK national, or EU national with settled or pre-settled status under the EU Settlement Scheme, you may be able to apply for a Postgraduate Master’s Loan from the UK government, if you meet certain criteria.
The government has not yet published the loan amount for students starting courses in Autumn 2024. As a guide, the maximum value of the loan was £12,167 for courses starting on or after 1 August 2023.
The loan is not means-tested and you can choose whether to put it towards your tuition fees or living costs.
Your future career Develop the essential core knowledge and skills for a bioinformatics or systems biology career.
Our graduates often pursue further study in master's programs or doctoral research.
Life sciences graduates are in demand across a wide range of industries.
These include government and industrial research, public health, and careers in business.
Further links Contact the department Email: s.dennison@imperial.ac.uk Course Director: Professor Michael Sternberg Course Co-Director: Dr Derek Huntley Course Administrator: Sally Dennison Visit the Department of Life Sciences website.
Request info Find out more about studying at Imperial. Receive updates about life in our community, including event invites and download our latest Study guide.
Request info Events, tasters and talks Meet us and find out more about studying at Imperial.
Find an event Terms and conditions There are some important pieces of information you should be aware of when applying to Imperial. These include key information about your tuition fees, funding, visas, accommodation and more.
Read our terms and conditions You can find further information about your course, including degree classifications, regulations, progression and awards in the programme specification for your course.
Contact & Links Useful Links Information for Prospective students Alumni Jobs Partners and business Media Donors Parents Conference organisers Top links Visit Imperial Outlook web access Contact ICT Service Desk Library Blackboard Move Imperial Students Imperial students Imperial College Union Student Hub Careers Service Imperial Mobile Graduation Term dates Staff Staff main page ICIS HR procedures Pay and pensions Research support New staff information Imperial partners Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust Imperial College Academic Health Science Centre Imperial College Health Partners Imperial Consultants A-Z Faculties, departments and institutes Research groups Administration and support services People finder College Information Imperial College London Address South Kensington Campus London SW7 2AZ , UK tel: +44 (0)20 7589 5111 Campuses & maps Follow Imperial Site Information Sitemap Accessibility Modern slavery statement Privacy notice Use of cookies Report incorrect content © 2023 Imperial College London Log in
