Master's in Data Science - NYU Center for Data Science
2023
https://cds.nyu.edu/masters-financial-aid

NYU Center for Data Science Harnessing Data’s Potential for the World About Overview Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion About Community Partners Program Stats and Plans Contact Communications CDS Updates Community Newsletter Our People Faculty Joint Associated Visiting Affiliated Affiliated Shanghai Clinical Adjunct Leadership Fellows, Research Engineers, Research Scientists, and Postdocs Data Science Faculty Fellows Research Engineers & Research Scientists Postdoc Researchers Affiliated Postdocs Staff PhD Students PhD Alumni Past Members Research Research Home CDS Research Groups Faculty Research Areas Faculty Honors Academics PhD Program Overview Areas & Faculty Curriculum Admission Requirements FAQ Medical School Track NRT FUTURE Program Master’s Program Overview Curriculum Industry Concentration Tracks Admission Requirements FAQ Capstone Project Summer Initiative Financial Aid MS Admissions Ambassadors Undergraduate Program Overview Major in Data Science Minor in Data Science Joint Majors FAQ Contact Non-Degree Program Overview Curriculum Admission Requirements FAQ Apply Now Student Career Placement & Professional Development Overview Our Students: Career and Placement Information Alumni Spotlights Student Groups CDS Alumni Council Student Fellowships & Awards CDS Academic Integrity Statement and Policy Open House Webinars The CDS Podcast CDS Online Yann LeCun’s Deep Learning Course at CDS Mathematical Tools for Data Science Brave New World Podcast Partnerships Partners Program Partnership Research Initiatives Executive Education Events CDS Events Feed The Math and Data (MaD) Seminar MaD+ Seminar Series NLP and Text-as-Data Speaker Series Computational Biology & Medicine Colloquium Data Science Lunch Seminar Series The Math and Democracy Seminar Data Science Graduate Student Seminar AI, Misinformation, and Policy Seminar Series Jobs Faculty & Staff Positions Faculty Fellows Positions Initiatives Current Initiatives AI@NYU Center for Responsible AI CURP CURP Summer 2023 Cohort CURP Summer 2022 Cohort CURP Spring 2022 Cohort CURP Spring 2021 Cohort Minds, Brains, & Machines Past Initiatives DS3 Moore-Sloan Overview Seed Grant Summer Research Initiative Showcase Community Newsletter Search for: Search for: Master’s in Data Science MS in Data Science Overview Curriculum Industry Concentration Tracks Admission Requirements FAQ Capstone Project Summer Research Initiative Financial Aid MS Admissions Ambassadors Financial Aid Financial Aid Overview Curriculum Industry Concentration Tracks Admission Requirements FAQ Capstone Project Summer Initiative Financial Aid CDS offers a limited number of tuition scholarships to selected students admitted to the program. All applicants for admission will be considered for these awards on a competitive basis. These scholarships will cover a portion of the tuition costs for up to two years.
For information on financial aid at NYU, visit NYU’s Financial Aid Page.
DeepMind Scholarship Program for Underrepresented Students Kathleena Inchoco , CDS DeepMind Fellow, 2022-2023 Kathleena was born in Manila, Philippines and grew up in Fairfield, CT. In 2018, she graduated from Wellesley College with a B.A. in Economics and minor in Mathematics. As an undergraduate, Kathleena enjoyed studying cross-disciplinary problems related to economics, ethics, and math. After college, she worked at the Brattle Group, The Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and Morgan Stanley. Kathleena intends to use her time at NYU to delve more deeply into how data science can solve complex problems in our society.
Mary Nwangwu, CDS DeepMind Fellow, 2022-2023 Mary was born and raised in Los Angeles, California. She earned her undergraduate degree in Bioengineering at the University of California, Riverside. After graduating, Mary worked as a research associate at the Beckman Research Institute of City of Hope. There, she utilized machine-learning-based software and statistical tools to analyze extensive sets of patient-based data to find correlations with clinical outcomes. Mary is enthusiastic about the opportunity the Fellowship presents and is passionate about advocating for the advancement of diversity in the tech industry.
Darius Stansil , CDS DeepMind Fellow, 2021-2022 Darius was born and raised in California, and earned his undergraduate degree at the University of California, Merced. While there he completed a double major in Computer Science and Cognitive Science, and contributed to several AI and deep learning related projects. After graduating, Darius worked as a data engineering intern at Genentech, and as a technology consultant in data analytics at PricewaterhouseCoopers. He is excited for the opportunity that the fellowship presents and hopes that he can inspire more students from underrepresented groups to become data scientists.
Akram Reshad , CDS DeepMind Fellow, 2021-2022 Akram was born in Las Vegas, Nevada to two Ethiopian immigrants. Helping his community was always a big part of his childhood, as both his parents loved volunteering. He has always loved math and science from a young age. He has a passion for AI and data science because he believes it will be the future. Akram’s hobbies include reading books, playing chess, and playing basketball.
CDS is thrilled to once again partner with DeepMind in offering a series of scholarships aimed at increasing representation of underrepresented students in higher education AI programs. Increasing representation in AI is a significant opportunity to bring diverse voices to the conversation, and ultimately shape continuing developments in AI as a technology that benefits everyone.
Obum Ekeke, University Relations and Educational Partnerships at DeepMind, said: “AI needs a diverse range of voices, perspectives and talents, and these scholarships will empower students from underrepresented backgrounds to access master’s level study in AI.” DeepMind selected New York University’s Center for Data Science as a pioneer not only in the rapidly developing field of data science, but as a leader in recruiting a diverse cohort of students and researchers (for the first time in 2019, CDS welcomed a majority female cohort to its MS in Data Science incoming class). CDS is honored to be a part of this effort to enable the next generation of AI researchers and engineers, ultimately building a stronger and more inclusive AI community.
DeepMind was NYU CDS’ first industrial partner, sponsoring over 20 CDS students to date. CDS DeepMind scholars are also offered support from a DeepMind mentor, and have opportunities to attend leading AI academic conferences and DeepMind events.
For 2023 entry, 2 fully-funded master’s scholarships will be available for CDS students from backgrounds underrepresented in AI, including DeepMind mentoring support and a grant for academic conference travel. All MS applicants are reviewed for potential scholarship opportunities. Thus, in order to be considered for the DeepMind scholarship, the only step applicants need to take is to simply apply to the program.
DeepMind is a leading artificial intelligence research company that aims to solve real-world problems and advance scientific discovery. For more information on their scholarship programs, please visit the DeepMind website.
©2023 NYU CDS 7th floor, 60 5th Ave, New York, NY, 10011 NYU Center for Data Science About Overview Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion About Community Partners Program Stats and Plans Back Contact Communications CDS Updates Community Newsletter Back Back Our People Faculty Joint Associated Visiting Affiliated Affiliated Shanghai Clinical Adjunct Back Leadership Fellows, Research Engineers, Research Scientists, and Postdocs Data Science Faculty Fellows Research Engineers & Research Scientists Postdoc Researchers Affiliated Postdocs Back Staff PhD Students PhD Alumni Back Past Members Back Research Research Home CDS Research Groups Faculty Research Areas Faculty Honors Back Academics PhD Program Overview Areas & Faculty Curriculum Admission Requirements FAQ Medical School Track NRT FUTURE Program Back Master’s Program Overview Curriculum Industry Concentration Tracks Admission Requirements FAQ Capstone Project Summer Initiative Financial Aid MS Admissions Ambassadors Back Undergraduate Program Overview Major in Data Science Minor in Data Science Joint Majors FAQ Contact Back Non-Degree Program Overview Curriculum Admission Requirements FAQ Apply Now Back Student Career Placement & Professional Development Overview Our Students: Career and Placement Information Alumni Spotlights Back Student Groups CDS Alumni Council Student Fellowships & Awards CDS Academic Integrity Statement and Policy Open House Webinars The CDS Podcast Back CDS Online Yann LeCun’s Deep Learning Course at CDS Mathematical Tools for Data Science Brave New World Podcast Back Partnerships Partners Program Partnership Research Initiatives Executive Education Back Events CDS Events Feed The Math and Data (MaD) Seminar MaD+ Seminar Series NLP and Text-as-Data Speaker Series Computational Biology & Medicine Colloquium Data Science Lunch Seminar Series The Math and Democracy Seminar Data Science Graduate Student Seminar AI, Misinformation, and Policy Seminar Series Back Jobs Faculty & Staff Positions Faculty Fellows Positions Back Initiatives Current Initiatives AI@NYU Center for Responsible AI CURP CURP Summer 2023 Cohort CURP Summer 2022 Cohort CURP Spring 2022 Cohort CURP Spring 2021 Cohort Back Minds, Brains, & Machines Back Past Initiatives DS3 Moore-Sloan Overview Seed Grant Summer Research Initiative Showcase Community Newsletter Back Back Back
