Best phone deals: Save on iPhone 15, Google Pixel 7 and more | Digital Trends
2023
https://www.digitaltrends.com/dtdeals/best-smartphone-deals

Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Trending Reviews RTX 4070 Review LG Gram Style Review Razer Blade 15 Review Dell XPS 13 2-in-1 Review Mac Mini (M2 Pro) Review Browse by Type Computing News Computing Guides Computing Features Computing Reviews Computing Deals Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Trending Reviews iPhone 14 Review Google Pixel Fold Review Apple Watch Ultra Review Google Pixel Watch Review Samsung Galaxy S23 Review Browse by Type Mobile News Mobile Guides Mobile Features Mobile Reviews Mobile Deals Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Trending Games Fortnite Resident Evil Grand Theft Auto Hogwarts Legacy Star Wars Jedi: Survivor Browse by Type Gaming News Gaming Guides Gaming Features Gaming Reviews Gaming Deals Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Browse by Type Entertainment News Entertainment Guides Entertainment Features Entertainment Reviews Entertainment Deals Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Trending Reviews Sonos Era 100 Review Sonos Era 300 Review LG G3 OLED TV Review Apple TV 4K (2022) Review Roku Plus Series TV Review Browse by Type Audio / Video News Audio / Video Guides Audio / Video Features Audio / Video Reviews Audio / Video Deals Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Trending Guides What is a Smart Lock? What is Google Home? What is Amazon Alexa? Best Outdoor Security Cameras Trending Reviews Roborock S7 Max Ultra Review Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni Review Ring Spotlight Cam Pro review Amazon Echo Show 5 Review Apple HomePod Review Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best phone deals: Save on iPhone 15, Google Pixel 7, and more By Bruce Brown and Briley Kenney Close It is time. Time for a phone upgrade and a new, hopefully more responsive device. If it’s been a while, or you haven’t been paying much attention to the smartphone market, you’re in for a shock. You may find yourself overwhelmed with all the options that are available to you from brands like Apple, Samsung, Google, and more. To help you determine the best smartphone for you, we’ve gathered the top phone deals that you can shop right now across different retailers. You’re going to have to decide quickly though, because the discounts attached to these devices usually don’t last long. Proceed with your purchase as soon as possible so that you don’t miss out on the low prices.
Apple iPhone 15 — Free with Boost Mobile, was $830 Apple iPhone 15 Pro — Free with Boost Mobile, was $1,000 Apple iPhone 15 Pro Max — Free with Boost Mobile, was $1,200 Nokia G100 Unlocked — $130, was $200 Apple iPhone SE (3rd Gen) — $149, was $379 OnePlus Nord N200 — $170, was $200 OnePlus Nord N30 5G Unlocked — $270, was $300 Samsung Galaxy A54 5G A Series — $350, was $450 Google Pixel 7 — $498, was $599 OnePlus 11 5G Unlocked — $600, was $700 Motorola Edge+ Unlocked (2023) — $700, was $800 Samsung Galaxy S23 Unlocked — $700, was $800 Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 Unlocked — $900, was $1,000 Sony Xperia PRO-I Unlocked — $1,000, was $1,800 Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra Unlocked — $1,085, was $1,199 Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 Unlocked — $1,800, was $1,920 Apple iPhone 15 — Free with Boost Mobile, was $830 Apple If you’re looking to save on iPhone models, specifically the latest ones, it doesn’t get any better than free. You can read more about the specs and experience of the latest Apple device in our iPhone 15 vs. iPhone 14 comparison, which breaks down the major differences and upgrades. As for the deal, you’ll pay $0 for the phone at checkout — other than taxes and shipping — when you activate and finance the phone through Boost Mobile. After checkout, Boost collects a $60 activation fee, but don’t worry, that will be credited toward your first month’s wireless bill, so you don’t effectively lose any money on this deal. Needless to say, it’s a really good one, let alone for the latest iPhone models. Hurry, while it lasts.
Apple iPhone 15 Pro — Free with Boost Mobile, was $1,000 Apple To make sure you don’t choose the wrong model, review the iPhone 15 vs. iPhone 15 Pro comparison first. There are a few stark differences that you’ll want to be made aware of. It’s the same deal for this phone through Amazon and Boost Mobile. You’ll pay $0 for the phone at checkout — other than taxes and shipping — when you activate and finance the phone through Boost Mobile. After checkout, Boost collects a $60 activation fee, but it will be credited toward your first month’s wireless bill. Great phone, great deal, what are you waiting for? The best folding phones in 2023: the 6 best you can buy This AirTags deal knocks 10% off a four pack The best iPhone games in 2023: 31 games you need to play right now Apple iPhone 15 Pro Max — Free with Boost Mobile, was $1,200 Apple As it’s another free iPhone, also available through Amazon and Boost Mobile, the same details apply here. The phone will be $0 at checkout, excluding taxes and shipping, as long as you activate and finance the phone through Boost Mobile. After checkout, Boost collects a $60 activation fee, but it’s applied as a credit on your first month’s wireless bill. It doesn’t get much better than free, folks. Talk about ways to save on iPhone, right? Nokia G100 Unlocked — $130, was $200 Nokia Compatible with all major U.S. carriers and available unlocked, this Nokia smartphone can certainly play with the big boys. It has a 6.2-inch HD+ display, 128GB of storage with a MicroSD slot for more, 4GB of system RAM, and a triple rear camera at 5MP, 2MP, and 8MP (front-facing). The 5,000mAh battery should last all day, even with lots of use, and it supports 15-watt fast charging for a quick boost when you need it most.
Apple iPhone SE (3rd Gen) — $149, was $379 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends If you don’t mind getting a smartphone that’s locked to a Straight Talk prepaid plan, then you can have the third-generation Apple iPhone SE , the latest version of the entry-level iPhone, for a very cheap price. The iPhone SE 2022 may be affordable, but it doesn’t sacrifice too much because it’s equipped with a 4.7-inch Retina HD display, a 12MP Wide camera at the back, a 7MP FaceTime HD camera at the front, and Apple’s A15 Bionic chip that’s also used by the iPhone 13 series. The budget iPhone also offers the Touch ID fingerprint recognition system and IP67 water resistance.
OnePlus Nord N200 — $170, was $200 OnePlus The OnePlus Nord N200 is an unlocked Android smartphone with 5G support, a 6.5-inch Full HD+ LCD screen with a 90Hz refresh rate, and a 5,000mAh battery that will let the device last through your day. The smartphone offers 4GB of RAM and 64GB of built-in storage, though you can expand it by up to 256GB using a microSD card. The OnePlus Nord N200 also features a 13MP triple-camera system, a fingerprint recognition system at the side, and the Qualcomm Snapdragon 480 processor.
OnePlus Nord N30 5G Unlocked — $270, was $300 Joe Maring/Digital Trends / Digital Trends In his OnePlus Nord N30 review , Joe Maring says it’s “one of the best $300 smartphones” of the year. It feels great in the hand and offers a headphone jack — which is rare these days — plus expandable storage options. The 120Hz display looks smooth and pairs nicely with the exceptional performance. Plus, it comes with a 50-watt charger in the box. This is at a time when most brands are removing peripherals and charging adapters — even some of the newest phones don’t come with a charger anymore. But basically, if you have $300 to spend, and want a stunner of a device for that price range, here you go.
Samsung Galaxy A54 5G A Series — $350, was $450 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Samsung Galaxy A53 is another affordable 5G smartphone that’s made by one of the most popular brands in the market. It’s got a 6.5-inch Full HD Super AMOLED screen that’s bright and gorgeous, a long-lasting battery, and powerful performance with the Samsung Exynos 1280 processor and 6GB of RAM. The smartphone offers built-in storage of 128GB that you can expand nu up to 1TB using a microSD card, and it features an intelligent camera system with a 64MP main camera at the back and a 32MP front camera.
Google Pixel 7 — $498, was $599 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Google Pixel 7 is one of the best phones around right now, and if you want to understand the difference, our Google Pixel 7 versus Google Pixel 7a gives you a direct comparison between the two models available. The Pixel 7 has a superb camera in the form of a 50MP main camera that offers optical image stabilization and laser autofocus. There’s also a 12MP wide-angle camera with a 114-degree field-of-view, and video can be filmed at 4K resolutions at up to 60 frames per second. Its 6.3-inch AMOLED screen has a 90Hz refresh rate, so everything looks great with its stereo speakers enabling you to watch streaming content in style. Additional features like a fingerprint sensor under the display, the ever-useful Magic Eraser tool, and many more details make this a phone powerhouse for the price.
OnePlus 11 5G Unlocked — $600, was $700 OnePlus / OnePlus The OnePlus 11 is a “real OnePlus phone” and a “true return to form,” as put forth in Digital Trends’ OnePlus 11 review.
 In other words, OnePlus has really outdone itself here thanks to its eye-catching design, two-day battery life, and excellent software update commitment — you’ll be getting software updates long into the future if you get one of these. It will quietly fit into your life with no extra fuss, meaning you’ll have a seamless daily experience with reliable performance, excellent software, and lots of features — like the characterful camera.
Motorola Edge+ Unlocked (2023) — $700, was $800 Joe Maring/Digital Trends / Digital Trends You wouldn’t know it at first glance, but the 2023 Motorola Edge+ certainly has the potential to be a Pixel 7 Pro and Galaxy S23 killer. You can read more about it in our Motorola Edge+ review , but there’s a lot to love here. Let’s list out the benefits, shall we? You get a premium, comfortable design, an absolutely gorgeous OLED display, two days of battery life on a single charge, a 68-watt wired charger included in the box, Motorola’s fantastic Android interface, a great update policy for future software upgrades, and a very, very competitive price, especially with this current deal. Do we really need to say more? Samsung Galaxy S23 Unlocked — $700, was $800 Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The Samsung Galaxy S23 was just released earlier this year, so don’t miss this chance to buy it for a cheaper price. You’ll be getting a smartphone with a 6.1-inch Dynamic AMOLED 2X display featuring Full HD+ resolution and a 120Hz adaptive refresh rate, extremely fast performance with the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2, and a triple-lens camera system headlined by a 50MP main camera with optical image stabilization. The base model of Samsung’s flagship smartphone won’t let you down.
Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 Unlocked — $900, was $1,000 Tushar Mehta / Digital Trends Remember the old flip phones of yore? Remember how satisfying it was to snap them closed when you were done? One thing they didn’t feature was extra usability when they were closed — they didn’t have an external display like the Galaxy Z Flip 5 does. If you want to know how that functionality fares in the real world, have a look at our Galaxy Z Flip 5 review.
 Here’s a spoiler: It’s really good.
Sony Xperia PRO-I Unlocked — $1,000, was $1,800 Sony Sony’s Xperia PRO-I employs an older, almost retro-inspired design that espouses chonky, candy bar-style devices when they first came to market, but that’s not a bad thing here. It still manages to be quite slim with some absolutely feature-rich camera specifications. For starters, it uses a 1-inch image sensor and phase detection autofocus, with reduced noise in low-light settings and reduced camera reflections during shots. The F2.0 and F4.0 dual aperture allow for a lot of experimentation, plus the triple camera and 3D iToF sensor calculate the correct distance between the camera and the subject of a shot. An anti-distortion shutter keeps things clear and in focus while suppressing the rolling-shutter effect, you sometimes see with comparable devices. But here’s what you need to know above all: The Xperia PRO-I camera is quality.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra Unlocked — $1,085, was $1,199 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends We described the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra as the best, most complete Android phone yet, as it’s powered by the incredibly powerful Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 For Galaxy with 12GB of RAM and 512GB of storage, and it’s equipped with a 6.8-inch Super Dynamic AMOLED screen that offers a 120Hz adaptive refresh rate. Its camera system features a 200MP lens at the back — the highest camera resolution on a smartphone — and it also comes with the S Pen stylus as an additional input option for the massive touchscreen.
Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 Unlocked — $1,800, was $1,920 Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends In his Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 review , Andy Boxall showers it with endless praise, calling it “the best foldable of its kind” with a thinner, lighter design than ever. He also praised its silent yet reliable hinge quality, the use of strong multitasking tools, a fun, social-media friendly camera, and IPX8 resistance rating with durable chassis. But other than the primary features, he loved his experience with the phone, and these days, the software is everything. It’s no secret that Samsung’s phones have improved considerably in recent years, but the Galaxy Z Fold 5 is one of its best launches yet. And wouldn’t you know it? You can get it for a nice discount right now.
Editors' Recommendations I’d recommend these early Black Friday phone deals if you can’t wait The best iPhone 15 cases in 2023: our 16 favorites 10.2-inch iPad just crashed back to its lowest price of the year The 9th Gen iPad is still at its lowest ever price after Prime Day These are the 11 best iPhone chargers you can buy in 2023 Deals Android Apple Cheapest Prices Google Mobile Apple raised the bar again at its latest fall event. The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max are the two new top ways to experience Apple's smartphone world. These are the greatest iPhones available, with all of the new features and — excitingly for anyone who travels with a laptop or iPad — a USB-C port at the bottom. The iPhone 15 Pro is the phone to get if you want strong performance paired with a more manageable 6.1-inch display, and many would argue it's the perfect blend of size and power.
The iPhone 15 Pro is easier to handle than the iPhone 15 Pro Max. However, it’s crucial to protect your device from accidental drops and scratches, especially since it is an expensive phone that costs $1,000. Luckily, you can easily safeguard your investment by using a protective case that can withstand the usual hazards of daily use, such as bumps and scratches. We offer a wide range of case options to choose from, including slim cases and rugged cases for maximum protection. Take a look, and you’re sure to find something you’ll love.
Mobile Apple’s iPhone has been around for well over a decade now, and it’s always a great choice for those who are looking for a smartphone. For years, there was only one iPhone model to choose from, so your only decision was how much capacity to get and whether you wanted it with a darker black/gray or a lighter white/silver finish. Today, the latest iPhone models come in multiple versions, making the choice between them a bit more complicated.
For example, the newest iPhone 15 lineup offers four different models to choose from. Plus, Apple still sells the older iPhone 14 and iPhone 13. Lastly, there’s the iPhone SE for folks looking for a small and affordable no-frills model — or those who still really like the traditional home button and Touch ID sensor.
Mobile The Google Pixel 8 has finally arrived, and if you are one of the many who have bought it, it’s high time to invest in a quality phone case to safeguard your device. A brand new phone is delicate and highly prone to damage, which can lead to a significant replacement cost. Purchasing a phone case is a wise decision to ensure the safety of your phone right from day one.
There are a variety of cases available on the market from some of the biggest brands that offer great protective features. Here, we have compiled a list of 15 of the best Google Pixel 8 cases that are currently available.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Send to Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
