Computers
2023
https://newatlas.com/computers

SUBSCRIBE AD-FREE LOG IN HOME LIFESTYLE Health & Wellbeing Outdoors Tiny Houses Architecture Around the Home Good Thinking Holiday Destinations View all LIFESTYLE categories Health & Wellbeing Outdoors Tiny Houses Architecture Around the Home Good Thinking Holiday Destinations View all LIFESTYLE categories SCIENCE Energy Medical Space Materials Biology Environment Physics View all SCIENCE categories Energy Medical Space Materials Biology Environment Physics View all SCIENCE categories TECHNOLOGY Photography Military Mobile Technology Games Drones Home Entertainment Deals View all TECHNOLOGY categories Photography Military Mobile Technology Games Drones Home Entertainment Deals View all TECHNOLOGY categories TRANSPORT Automotive Aircraft Bicycles Motorcycles Marine Urban Transport View all TRANSPORT categories Automotive Aircraft Bicycles Motorcycles Marine Urban Transport View all TRANSPORT categories Menu HOME LIFESTYLE Health & Wellbeing Outdoors Tiny Houses Architecture Around the Home Good Thinking Holiday Destinations View all LIFESTYLE categories SCIENCE Energy Medical Space Materials Biology Environment Physics View all SCIENCE categories TECHNOLOGY Photography Military Mobile Technology Games Drones Home Entertainment Deals View all TECHNOLOGY categories TRANSPORT Automotive Aircraft Bicycles Motorcycles Marine Urban Transport View all TRANSPORT categories SUBSCRIBE AD-FREE LOG IN Show Search Search Query Submit Search Computers Continuous breakthroughs are bringing ever more powerful computers at ever-diminishing prices and enabling revolutionary related technologies, such as deep learning, artificial intelligence, autonomous vehicles and mind-reading machines. New Atlas keeps you up to date with the latest developments.
Latest News Computers Apple unveils advanced M3 chips for iMac and MacBook October 30, 2023 Twas the night before Halloween, and Apple held a “spooky” event to announce some “scary fast” new products. The company unveiled its next generation chips, the M3 family, as well as the first iMacs and MacBooks that will feature them.
Computers Quantum computer startup first to break 1,000-qubit milestone October 29, 2023 Atom Computing has announced the first quantum computer to pass the 1,000-qubit milestone. The prototype, due to become available for use in 2024, leapfrogs IBM’s announcement of its new quantum computer platform expected in the next few weeks.
Computers First look: The world's first naturally-lit, anti-eye-strain monitor October 24, 2023 Some folk find regular monitors harsh on the eyes, and look to e-ink and RLCD screens to reduce eye strain and fatigue. Another option is the Eazeye monitor is designed to use ambient backlight, via a reflector panel behind a transmissive screen.
Computers IBM's NorthPole chip mimics the human brain for greater power October 22, 2023 IBM Research’s lab in California is developing a prototype chip called NorthPole based on the architecture of the human brain. It holds the promise of greatly improving computer efficiency and producing systems that do not rely on cloud computing.
Computers First mini-PC with solid-state active cooling system launches October 19, 2023 Back in late 2022, Frore Systems emerged from stealth with two solid-state active cooling chips for computers called the AirJet Pro and AirJet Mini. Now Chinese multinational Zotac has announced the rollout of the first mini-PC built around the latter.
Computers Microsoft's glass data storage system saves terabytes for 10,000 years October 19, 2023 10,000 years in the future, explorers could end up getting rickrolled, thanks to a Global Music Vault due to be built in Norway. It features Microsoft’s Project Silica, a tough new data storage medium that’s never gonna give you up.
Computers HP fuels productivity on the Move with battery-powered Envy AIO PC October 06, 2023 All-in-one desktop computers are a great space-saving solution for folks who work at home. But what if you want to work from a coffee shop? Laptop's just don't offer a big-screen experience, so HP has made the AIO mobile with the Envy Move.
Computers Eye comfort a priority for all-in-one desktop PC with color E Ink display September 29, 2023 Earlier this month, Dasung launched a desktop monitor sporting color E Ink technology for reduced eye strain while working. Now Bigme has gone one better by combining monitor and computer for the B251 all-in-one Windows PC.
Computers Makers treated to fresh slice of Raspberry Pi September 28, 2023 The last generation of the popular fruity board for tinkerers landed in 2021, though its creators did double the system memory the following year. Now the Raspberry Pi 5 has launched rocking in-house silicon for much-improved performance.
Computers Inventor ponders ethics of wiring human brain tissue into computers September 22, 2023 When you take 800,000 human brain cells, wire them into a biological hybrid computer chip, and demonstrate that it can learn faster than neural networks, people have questions. We speak to Dr. Brett Kagan, Chief Scientific Officer at Cortical Labs.
Computers With some 1,500 dead animals in its wake, Neuralink heads to humans September 20, 2023 Following years of controversy, including whistleblowers reporting of rushed experimental “hack jobs” that resulted in as many as 1,500 animal fatalities, Elon Musk's brain-chip implant company has begun recruiting for its landmark first human trial.
Computers Thunderbolt 5 delivers up to 3 times the bandwidth of its predecessor September 13, 2023 Intel has announced the latest in next-gen connectivity with Thunderbolt 5, a single-cable solution designed to deliver up to three times more bandwidth than its predecessor to benefit even the most demanding PC user.
Computers This retro 14-in-one docking system takes you back to the future September 13, 2023 As news of the iPhone 15 jams up the airwaves, you can also take a trip back to 1984, aesthetically speaking, with this retro desktop hub that channels the questionable beauty of the Macintosh 128K, but offers much more user-friendly modern appeal.
Computers Tape lives! IBM and Fujifilm release record 50-TB memory tape September 03, 2023 You may think that computer tape memories died out before Rubik's cubes came in, but IBM and Fujifilm have teamed up to develop a record-breaking new sixth-generation tape storage system that can backup a whopping 50 TB of data.
Computers Review: Versatile CrowView gives your laptop extra screen real estate September 03, 2023 Working remotely, it's not easy to move from a home desk when you require two screens. The CrowView display wants to change that, with its 'plug and play' functionality and easy attachment letting you work anywhere, even from a sun lounge by the beach.
Load More GET OUR NEWSLETTER HOME SUBSCRIBE FEATURES REVIEWS ABOUT ADVERTISE TERMS PRIVACY CONTACT RSS FAQ LIFESTYLE 20th Anniversary Architecture Around the Home Children Collectibles Good Thinking Health & Wellbeing Holiday Destinations Outdoors Pets Remarkable People Tiny Houses SCIENCE Biology Electronics Energy Environment Materials Medical Physics Quantum Computing Space TECHNOLOGY 3D Printing Computers Deals Photography Drones Games Home Entertainment Laptops Military Mobile Technology Music Robotics Smartwatches Telecommunications Wearable Electronics Virtual Reality TRANSPORT Aircraft Automotive Bicycles Marine Motorcycles Urban Transport twitter instagram pinterest flipboard facebook linkedin
