The Best N95, KF94, and KN95 Face Masks (2023) | WIRED
2023
https://www.wired.com/story/best-disposable-face-masks-n95-kn95-kf94-surgical

Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Best Pumpkin Carving Kits How to Use Dall-E 3 in ChatGPT Best Steam Deck Accessories Beginner Birding Gear How to Use Your Phone Addiction for Good Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Brenda Stolyar Eric Ravenscraft Gear 14 Good N95, KF94, and KN95 Face Masks to Buy Right Now Save this story Save Save this story Save The Biden administration officially ended the national and public health emergency for Covid-19 in May of 2023 and mask mandates have been dropped in every state throughout the country. But with cases still surging, it's smart to continue masking, particularly in public indoor spaces or while spending time with people outside of your household. More subvariants are driving a surge in cases, so now's the time to upgrade your go-to mask or stock up on more. We looked into some good options (some of which we’ve tested), and here’s what we found.
Updated September 2023: We removed the Titan Protect and Amston Model 1808 N95 respirator masks because they're out of stock. We also updated pricing and retailers.
Do New Variants Change Mask Requirements? When Should I Wear A Mask? Wait, Which Kind of Mask Should I Get? What Are Workplace Performance Masks? N95 Respirator Masks KF94 Masks KN95 Masks Children's Masks How Do I Avoid Counterfeit Masks? Can I Reuse Disposable Masks? Get Free Masks From the Government Rapid At-Home Test Kits Special offer for Gear readers: Get WIRED for just $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com, full Gear coverage, and subscriber-only newsletters. Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
Omicron is a highly transmissible variant, and that's why health experts suggest N95 or KN95 masks. It has led to concerns that cloth or even surgical masks aren't effective at blocking the transmission of the virus. Research is still ongoing, but we know that cloth and surgical masks are better than nothing, and N95s are your best bet.
A report from spring 2021 showed that if an infected and noninfected person were both wearing cloth masks, it would take around 27 minutes for an infectious dose of Covid-19 to reach the noninfected person. If both were wearing surgical masks, that time would rise to about an hour. If both were wearing non-fitted N95s, it would take 25 hours to receive an infectious dose. This was before the Delta or Omicron variants, but it should offer an idea of the masks' relative effectiveness levels.
Those who have symptoms, who have tested positive, or who were exposed to someone with Covid-19, should wear a mask. Otherwise, you can use the CDC's COVID-19 Hospital Admission Level tool (previously known as the Community Levels tool) to check whether a mask is necessary for your state and county based on the latest data. The tool analyzes hospitalizations, deaths, emergency department visits, and the percentage of positive Covid-19 tests in your area to determine whether Covid-19 levels are low, medium, or high. Regardless of the level, it's important to make sure you're up to date with Covid-19 vaccines, get tested if you have symptoms, and follow the recommendations if you were exposed to the virus. But you should wear a high-quality mask or respirator when hospital admissions are at medium and high.
There's been some confusion about which masks are effective.
Some health experts have advised against using cloth masks. Back in January 2022, the Centers for Disease Control's guidance on masks was updated to say that N95 masks offer the “highest level of protection.” However, the agency still recommends that the best mask is one you'll wear correctly and consistently.
The best kinds of disposable face masks to wear haven't changed a lot: N95 masks are your best bet.
The US-based NIOSH agency regulates N95s to meet a certain standard of quality. N95s are sometimes referred to as “respirators.” KN95 and KF94 masks are also effective, and likely comfier.
KN95s are governed by a different set of standards specific to China and are sometimes easier to find.
 KF94 masks are similar to KN95s but governed by a Korean standard.
 These are also sometimes referred to as “respirators.” Surgical-style masks (three-ply) are the next best thing you can wear.
They aren't as effective as the above masks, but if they have a good, tight fit they can still be effective in less risky settings. We have tips on how to improve your fit in our guide to our favorite masks.
Cloth masks are not as effective.
If you can't get your hands on the masks listed above, at least wear a cloth mask. They're likely far less effective, depending on their material makeup.
Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers It's incredibly important to get a mask that fits your face. A big part of the reason cloth or even surgical masks can be less effective is due to the gaps between the mask and the face. These areas can allow unfiltered air to get through and enter your nose and mouth. N95 masks are generally designed to fit snugly, which is why they're safer. However, the CDC advises those with heart or lung problems to talk to their doctor before using an N95 since wearing these masks can make it harder to breathe.
Most of the CDC and Food and Drug Administration's mask guidance and standards were initially designed with medical settings like doctors' offices and hospitals in mind. However, the pandemic has made it much more common and necessary for people to wear masks in nonmedical contexts. To help with this, the ASTM International standard makes it easier to classify masks for everyday work.
Under this standard, masks can be labeled as either Workplace Performance or Workplace Performance Plus. The NIOSH recommends using these masks in a workplace environment but, crucially, does not recommend them as a replacement for N95 or other respirators. If you or someone you interact with regularly is a high-risk individual, or if you work in a medical setting, you should stick with N95s.
This standard rates masks based on filtration, breathability, and an optional leakage ratio. The CDC has a list of masks here , and it tells which masks pass enough of these criteria to qualify for either of the Workplace Performance labels (as of writing, there are only three that earned the label), but this is all based on data reported by suppliers and manufacturers. If you can't find N95 masks but don't work in a high-risk setting, these are also decent masks to pick up.
Also, note that ASTM refers to the agency that classifies standards, but this workplace standard is not the only ASTM standard that governs masks. This standard is technically ASTM F3502-21, which only has the two Workplace Performance levels mentioned above. You may also see other masks that use labels like “ASTM Level 3,” which refer to different ASTM standards for medical masks.
 For our purposes, all of this means that if you're looking for low-risk masks for the office, look for the Workplace Performance labels.
Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers The CDC has a giant list of approved N95 masks.
 Unfortunately, the supply of many brands is constantly fluctuating , so you may need to check back regularly to see which are in stock. Many stores also have regional stock based on in-store supply, so be sure to check your local zip code at different sites where applicable.
Kimberly-Clark N95 Respirator Mask.
Photograph: Kimberly Clark Amazon Staples (300 Count for $257) If you need a large number of N95s on the cheap, this pack from Kimberly-Clark is one of your best bets. While these are NIOSH-approved N95 respirators, they're not intended for medical use. If that's not an issue for you, then the horizontal-fold pouch and bendable nosepiece should provide a solid seal on your face, while still costing less than a dollar per mask.
DemeTech This fold-style mask uses two over-the-head straps to keep the mask snug on your face, while still allowing a fair amount of breathing room in front of your mouth and nose. These are among the pricier masks on our list, but members of our team have used these and found them comfortable and sturdy.
3M Aura N95 Respirator Mask.
Photograph: 3M Amazon Home Depot ($23) 3M's N95 respirators are individually wrapped and have two horizontal folds that create a decent-sized cup in front of your nose and mouth. The masks come with two straps that go over your head and neck to keep a tight seal. This is one of the smaller packs on our list, but you may have an easier time finding it in stock at some stores.
Honeywell Safety DF300 N95 Mask.
Photograph: Honeywell Honeywell The DF300 N95 from Honeywell is a more affordable option on this list. With this mask, you'll get multilayer absorption (including a humidity- and moisture-resistant filter), a soft inner lining, and latex-free head straps. The nose clip is also adjustable and hidden underneath the mask. It comes complete with a soft foam nose cushion as well, which should make it more comfortable to wear for longer periods of time.
Vida Adult KF94 Mask.
Photograph: VIDA Amazon Vida ($25) Vida's KF94 mask is both protective and stylish. It's FDA-listed, CE-certified (and manufactured in South Korea), and offers a 94 percent filtration efficiency. The four-layer mask comes in adorable pastel colors including light green, light pink, and light blue. It's also available in a variety of pack sizes from 10 all the way up to 1,000.
BOTN KF94 Mask.
Photograph: Amazon Amazon The BOTN KF94 masks only come in large and extra-large for adults, so those with smaller faces should look into the youth size.
 The mask does come with earloops and a nosepiece that are both adjustable, so it should help ensure a tight fit if you go for the bigger size. It also comes in a variety of color options including beige, dark grey, pink, and yellow.
LG Airwasher KF94 Mask.
Photograph: LG Amazon This one dips in and out of stock. LG's Airwasher mask is a standard KF94 with a three-dimensional design, four-ply fabric, an adjustable nose clip, and rounded ear loops. If you want a slightly more elevated option, it also comes in a Black Style design that'll likely pair well with fancier outfits for more formal occasions.
Opectid KN95 Protective Masks.
Photograph: Sengtor Ltd Amazon As we mentioned above, KN95 face masks aren't ideal for higher-risk individuals or medical settings, but if you need better filtration than a cloth mask for everyday, low-risk use, these are a decent way to go. On top of being less expensive per mask, they also come in a variety of colors, which should make it easier to coordinate an outfit or just mix it up once in a while. These KN95 masks come in black and are individually wrapped. They're pretty cheap compared to the N95 masks listed above, at less than a dollar per mask.
Evolvetogether Rio de Janeiro Photograph: EvolveTogether Evolvetogether Revolve Evolvetogether's masks are trendy among celebrities because they're both protective and stylish. The Rio De Janeiro is made of 6-ply fabric (complete with activated charcoal to reduce odors), double filtration, and a water-resistant exterior. Each mask also has an adjustable nose bridge and gentle ear loops, making it ideal to wear for long periods of time. Of all the KN95s we've tested, this is our favorite one for smaller faces. While pricey, these masks are not only lightweight and comfortable but super durable as well.
Amazon Another pack of multicolored KN95 masks, this set from Halidodo comes in a slightly different array of colors—most notably including an eye-catching orange mask—and is similarly affordable.
Wwdoll Foldable KN95 Masks.
Photograph: WWDoll Amazon We’ve tested this mask and found that, while comfortable and super durable, the size is best for those with smaller faces.
Bona Fide KN95 Mask.
Photograph: Bona Fide Masks Bona Fide Masks The White Powecom masks come with a multi-filtration system and an adjustable metal nosepiece. You can also choose between the standard KN95 ear loops or the N95 headband style, depending on what you find more comfortable. It comes in a fairly wide range of color options as well, from white and gray to bright pink and deep red.
Once kids are over the age of 2, you can consider putting a face mask on them. We recommend anything they'll actually wear. We have a suggestion below, and our Best Face Masks for Kids guide has more.
AirPop Kids Reusable Mask.
Photograph: AirPop Best Buy AirPop ($20) Kids' masks are a bit more difficult since health agencies don't regulate them in quite the same way, but this pack is one of our favorites. It's reusable and can be used for children 3 to 12 years old. It comes in blue, white, and pink. It has been independently tested by several international product-testing and quality-assurance companies, and it is the mask that WIRED editor Adrienne So's kids use for school. US manufacturer Armbrust also makes kids' masks , though they're probably best for kids aged 7 and up, as we noted in our Best Kids' Face Masks guide.
Dr. Puri KF94 kids' mask Photograph: Getty Images Amazon Our mask reviewer, Adrienne So, had her kids test these. They come in three sizes, for different ages, and should provide protection similar to a KN95—more protection than a standard surgical-style mask. There's frequently a coupon on the page you can clip to knock a few dollars off.
Project N95 isn't a specific mask but rather a nonprofit devoted to connecting personal protective equipment (PPE) supplies with the people and healthcare organizations that need them. If you're not having luck finding masks in your usual spots, you can browse the organization's marketplace to find more masks and respirators as well as testing kits and other protective gear.
There are a number of ways to spot counterfeit N95 masks, such as by looking for markings on the mask itself or by avoiding N95 masks marketed to children (since the NIOSH doesn't approve any type of respirators for kids). The CDC offers much more thorough guidance on how to avoid N95 counterfeits on its site.
We don't recommend buying just any mask you see on Amazon, since Amazon allows third-party sellers on its platform that may not vet products as well as those sold by Amazon.com. You should know that Walmart, Target, and other retailers may also sell third-party masks—make sure you always look at the seller. The masks on this list are legitimate, as are many masks you'll find in major retail chains, like CVS, or from US manufacturers.
Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers Earlier in the pandemic, the CDC authorized the emergency use of KN95, KF94, and other non-N95 masks in healthcare settings, but that order was revoked in June 2021.
 Still, many KN95 or KF94 masks are more than adequate for everyday use for low-risk individuals, and they're far better than no mask at all. When shopping for a mask, keep in mind what your needs are and how you plan to use the masks you buy.
If you walk into a coffee shop for two minutes on your way to work with a brand-new N95 on, do you need to throw it out and use a new one when you arrive? Not exactly.
For specific instructions and information on your N95 mask, you should check the manufacturer's instructions. But if you can't find data from your mask manufacturer on how many times you can take a mask on and off, the CDC's guidelines state that N95 masks will become less effective the more times they're taken on and off. Part of the reason for this is that the elastic bands wear out and result in a less tight fit. You should throw away your N95 mask when the straps are stretched out and no longer fit snugly on your face or when the mask becomes dirty, wet, or damaged. You also shouldn't put your N95 in the oven or microwave to sterilize it.
Removing a mask also requires touching it, which can mean particles transfer from the mask to your hands and then back to your face. It's a very good idea to wash your hands effectively after removing or replacing a mask. Try to avoid touching the mask itself and use elastic bands.
Thanks to a White House initiative , around 400 million N95 masks were distributed to pharmacies and community centers across the country last year—with up to three masks available per adult. Many of the distribution locations were the places where you may have gotten your vaccine. You can check your local vaccine centers, community health centers , a Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program medical provider , or any major pharmacy chain, to see if they still have any in stock. The masks are N95s. Notably, surgical N95 masks are held back for healthcare workers. We recommend calling ahead to double-check inventory.
You Might Also Like … 📧 Find the best bargains on quality gear with our Deals newsletter “ Someone is using photos of me to talk to men” A chatbot encouraged him to kill the queen.
 It’s just the beginning Chum salmon are spawning in the Arctic.
 It’s an ominous sign How to use ChatGPT’s “Browse With Bing” tool —plus six starter prompts My kid wants to be an influencer.
 Is that bad? 🌞 See if you take a shine to our picks for the best sunglasses and sun protection Product Writer & Reviewer X Product Writer and Reviewer X Topics coronavirus COVID-19 health Shopping buying guides public health healthcare CDC Louryn Strampe Adrienne So Julian Chokkattu Matt Jancer Nena Farrell Adrienne So Eric Ravenscraft Louryn Strampe WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart coupon: $10 Off any size order + free delivery Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code Samsung coupon Code for up to 40% Off the store Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón
