Best iPhone (2023): Which Model Should You Buy? | WIRED
2023
https://www.wired.com/gallery/iphone-buying-guide

Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Best Pumpkin Carving Kits How to Use Dall-E 3 in ChatGPT Best Steam Deck Accessories Beginner Birding Gear How to Use Your Phone Addiction for Good Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Julian Chokkattu Gear Which iPhone Should You Buy (or Avoid) Right Now? Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Best Overall $799 at Apple (iPhone 15) Best Budget iPhone $599 at Apple The Midrange iPhone $699 at Apple (iPhone 14) The Ultimate iPhone $1,199 at Apple After 11 years, Apple finally changed the charging port on the iPhone 15 range. Gone is Lightning in favor of USB-C.
 Is it worth the upgrade? Apple sells eight iPhone models, from the $429 iPhone SE (2022) to the $1,199 iPhone 15 Pro Max.
 We’re here to help you separate the marketing slogans from reality—we’ve tested the latest models and outlined their strengths and weaknesses so you can make sure you're buying the best iPhone for your needs.
Check out our other buying guides , including Best MagSafe Accessories , Best iPhone 15 Cases , Best iPhone 14 Cases , Best iPhone 13 Cases , Best iPhone SE Cases , and Best Apple 3-in-1 Chargers.
 Wondering what's new in iOS 17 ? We have details on that too.
Updated September 2023: We’ve added the iPhone 15 range and several accessories.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get WIRED for just $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.
com , full Gear coverage, and subscriber-only newsletters. Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
If you’re upgrading from an iPhone, you can trade it to Apple to get a small discount. Before you do that, check whether you can sell it elsewhere for more money. iPhones hold their value incredibly well, particularly if they’re in mint or good condition. We have a guide that runs through a few websites you can use.
Don’t forget to back up your old iPhone before you switch to a newer model, which will help you transfer everything without losing any data.
 Remember to factory reset your old iPhone before selling it.
 You might find our guides on setting up a new iPhone and how to fix it helpful. And if you don’t want to sell it, we have some ideas on how to repurpose your old device.
Photograph: Apple Best Overall Apple iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus The best iPhone is the one that's going to last you a long time, and it's tough to recommend an iPhone without USB-C, since Apple just abandoned the Lightning charging port (you can read more about this here ). If you are on the hunt for a new iPhone—and you don't care for all the bells and whistles—you should go for the iPhone 15 or iPhone 15 Plus ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ). Both have the same features, but the 6.1-inch iPhone 15 is nicer for people who like small phones, and the 6.7-inch Plus is better suited for large-screen devourers. The Plus also has better battery life. They have OLED displays that get bright enough to see on sunny days, MagSafe support , and IP68 water resistance, plus plenty of power thanks to the A16 chipset.
Apple has erased the notch and replaced it with the Dynamic Island, the pill-shaped cutout at the top of the display that houses the selfie camera and Face ID sensors. It also doubles as a way to show passive information, like the ETA for your Uber ride without having to constantly open the Uber app. These iPhones have a new 48-megapixel primary camera that now captures photos at 24 megapixels by default, which means they'll take up more storage space. The trade-off is more detail in your shots. The photos are easily better than those from the iPhone 13 and earlier, though not dramatically different from the iPhone 14 Pro.
 You also get an ultrawide camera, plus a 2X zoom option that offers up sharper photos than ever before.
$799 at Apple (iPhone 15) $899 at Apple (iPhone 15 Plus) Photograph: Apple Best Budget iPhone Apple iPhone 13 If you don't need the latest iPhone, don't mind the Lightning port, and don't want to buy used, then save your money and go with the iPhone 13 from 2021 ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ). This is the oldest iPhone I'd recommend someone buy right now unless you can find an iPhone 12 or 12 Pro for dirt cheap. The cameras won't beat competing phones at this price, like the Google Pixel 7 , but they're still pretty good. It comes with 128 GB of storage, 5G, and still has MagSafe support so you can attach various accessories magnetically to the back of the phone. Battery life is more than adequate. Read our Best iPhone 13 Cases guide for protection.
$599 at Apple Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers Photograph: Apple The Midrange iPhone Apple iPhone 14 and iPhone 14 Plus The iPhone 14 and iPhone 14 Plus ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ) are an awful lot like the iPhone 13 , which isn't a bad thing. It has a similar processor—the A15 Bionic with one additional graphics core, so gaming performance is (almost imperceptibly) better. The cameras also produce very similar results. It has the old notch design and all the basics you'd want, from MagSafe and wireless charging to IP68 water resistance. One leg up it has over the iPhone 13 is support for Emergency SOS via Satellite, Crash Detection, and Roadside Assistance. These tools will help you reach emergency services if you're in an area with no service or if you're unresponsive after a car crash (they're also available in the iPhone 15 range).
I've found the 6.1-inch iPhone 14's battery lasts a full day with medium to heavy use, but the iPhone 14 Plus often had enough juice to last until the afternoon of the second day off the charger. It even bested the iPhone 14 Pro Max in my testing. If you're frequently turning on Low Power Mode, get the Plus.
$699 at Apple (iPhone 14) $799 at Apple (iPhone 14 Plus) Photograph: Apple The Ultimate iPhone Apple iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max Most people probably don't need to spend this much on a smartphone, but if you absolutely want Apple's best mobile hardware, then I recommend the iPhone 15 Pro Max ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ). Yes, specifically the larger and priciest model, just because it has battery life that can comfortably go a day and a half and because of its new 5X zoom camera. You're paying so much already, so why not go all the way? It comes with 256 GB of storage by default, too, which befits the “Pro” name. The camera system is one of the best around at the moment, whether you're capturing a subject with the ultrawide or with the 48-megapixel main camera. The latter sensor is 50 percent larger than the 48-MP camera in the base iPhone 15, so image quality is better overall.
The new Pro models are made from titanium, which makes them around 10 percent lighter than their predecessors. It sounds small, but it's super helpful in making the Pro Max easier to hold one-handed. Titanium is also more durable and scratch-resistant than stainless steel. Apple has replaced the mute switch with the Action Button, which by default triggers silent mode. You can customize this button to activate other functions, like opening the camera, launching a Shortcut, or toggling the flashlight. The Pro models have the USB 3 standard in the USB-C port, meaning you can access faster data transfer speeds (up to 10 Gbps) compared to any other iPhone, so this is the model to get if you're frequently transferring large files between devices (like video files). They're powered by the A17 Pro, Apple's most powerful mobile hardware chip, and are exclusively the only models that will be able to play AAA games later this year such as Assassin's Creed Mirage and Resident Evil Village.
$1,199 at Apple Photograph: Apple The Cheapest iPhone Apple iPhone SE (2022) Apple refreshed its most affordable iPhone for a third generation ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ) in 2022, though you'll be hard-pressed to spot the differences. Externally, there are none—even cases for the 2020 iPhone SE will fit this version. (We've rounded up our favorite cases and accessories here.
) That means you still get a cramped yet compact 4.7-inch LCD screen with a physical home button, thick bezels around the screen, and Touch ID. There's no MagSafe accessory system or headphone jack, but at least you still get plain ol' wireless charging.
 This is also the only iPhone in the lineup without ultra-wideband support, which improves AirDrop and lets you precisely find nearby AirTags.
Internally, the 2022 SE is a whole lot more powerful than the previous generation. It has the same A15 Bionic processor as the iPhone 13 models, making this budget phone a powerhouse among its peers and capable of running the most demanding games. That chip also brings better battery life, but the SE will last you roughly a day of use—less if you're a heavy user. It gets sub-6 5G connectivity , meaning it won't be able to hit the super-fast internet speeds available on pricier iPhones, but this isn't a big deal as you rarely run into that type of millimeter-wave 5G.
 The single-lens rear camera takes pretty great daytime shots, but there's no night mode, and low-light images are lackluster compared to phones like the Google Pixel 6A.
$429 at Apple $430 at Best Buy Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers Photograph: Apple If It’s $800 or Less Apple iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max Apple completely canceled the iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max from 2022, but they're still fine to buy. They have speedy processors and three rear cameras that deliver near-identical photos to the latest iPhone 15 Pro models, so you can zoom out with the ultrawide or zoom in with the telephoto. You get stainless steel frames, excellent OLED displays, daylong battery life, water resistance, and wireless charging. Since the iPhone 15 starts at $829, don't spend more than $800 on these phones. Practically speaking, new models will start to disappear from retailers soon, but you can buy renewed from Amazon.
 You also may be able to snag one in new or mint condition on resale websites like Swappa.
The iPhone 13 Pro and iPhone 13 Pro Max are also totally fine to buy right now, as long as you can find them for $600 or less. Anything more and you may as well pay for the newer devices.
Buy at Amazon (Renewed) Buy at Amazon (Pro Max, Renewed) Buy at Swappa (Used) Photograph: Josh Valcarcel/WIRED Avoid These iPhones! Apple iPhone 1-12, iPhone X, iPhone SE (2016) The iPhone 12, 12 Pro, 11, 11 Pro, XS, XR, X, 8, 7, 6S, SE (2016), and every older iPhone that came before them are probably available somewhere, but you shouldn't take the bait. They don't have the processing power to keep up with the latest software, and even if they do, they will have a much shorter software shelf life. The iPhone X, iPhone 8, and iPhone 8 Plus are cut off from receiving the iOS 17 update.
 Without software support, your device will slowly become less secure and could become a slow, buggy mess. The camera tech in these models isn't as refined, either. Unless they're almost free, we think you're better off with the new iPhone SE or another model on this list.
If you don't want to spend the money to get a new iPhone, consider a fresh battery.
 If the biggest issues with your aging iPhone revolve around the battery, then replacing it might make it feel brand-new. Replacements for older iPhones are $69 , and $89 or $99 for newer models. If that doesn't do the trick, read our guide on ways to fix your iPhone's problems or our guide on selling your iPhone to get the most money out of it.
Photograph: Apple Wait, What's USB-C? Goodbye, Lightning The iPhone 15 range has ditched the long-standing Lightning port for USB-C, the same charging port you'll find on iPads, MacBooks, Android phones, Windows laptops, and many more personal tech gadgets. USB-C is often called the “universal port” because it can technically handle various responsibilities. For example, you can plug in external displays and extend the iPhone's screen, or you can connect the same USB-C accessories you might be currently using on your laptop, like SD card readers. Sadly, it does mean your Lightning accessories won't work unless you get dongles. You can read more about what the new port does here , but there are two important things to note: The iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus support the USB 2.0 standard just like the iPhones that came before, so you'll max out at 480 megabits per second of data transfer speeds.
The iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max support the USB 3.0 standard and are capable of up to 10 gigabits per second of data transfer speeds.
Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers Photograph: Cable Matters The Right USB-C Cable Cable Matters USB-C to USB-C Thunderbolt 4 The problem with USB-C is that its capabilities are so vast, but not every USB-C cable supports every single function. You need to make sure the cable you buy supports video output, speedy data transfer, and fast charging if that's what you want. The cable Apple includes in the box is able to carry up to 60 watts of power, and that's pretty much it. You can use this cable to recharge a MacBook, but maybe not a MacBook Pro under heavy load. If you get a cable like this one from Cable Matters, you'll be covered for every scenario. It supports up to 100 watts of power so you can use it for all your gadgets, has DisplayPort to work with external monitors, and supports up to 40 gigabits per second of data transfer. It also comes in multiple lengths. Read our Best USB-C Cables guide for more.
$28 at Amazon Photograph: Anker Apple Doesn't Include a Charging Brick Get a 30-Watt Charger Apple hasn't offered a charging brick in the box since the iPhone 12, so if you don't have one, we've got you covered with a few recommendations. These are all 30-watt chargers, which are more beneficial for the iPhone Pro models as they secretly support up to 27 watts, but 30 watts is still handy to have in case you want to recharge your iPad too.
Anker 511 Nano 3 30-Watt Charger for $20 : This is one of the tiniest chargers we've tested, and the prongs fold up for even more space savings. It comes in fun colors too.
Plugable Wall Outlet With 30-Watt USB-C and USB-A for $20 : This one's more functional. You can get 30 watts out of the USB-C, but you also get a USB-A port for another gadget (maybe an older Apple Watch charger), plus an outlet to plug in a laptop charger.
Nomad 30-Watt Translucent Charger for $30 : It's translucent and fairly compact, however, you can't fold down the prongs.
Case-Mate Fuel Brites 30-Watt Charger for $30 : This one is slightly bigger than the Anker and Nomad, but the prongs fold, and it has this rad teal green color. It also has dipped to $14 before.
Photograph: Belkin For Apple Stans Belkin 3-in-1 Wireless Charger With MagSafe If you have an iPhone, there's a chance you have another Apple gadget, like AirPods or an Apple Watch. If so, you really should get a 3-in-1 charger for your home. We have tons of options in our Best Apple 3-in-1 Chargers guide, but this Belkin MagSafe model is our favorite. It has an elegant design and charges the iPhone and Apple Watch at the maximum speeds, and you can pop your earbuds on the base to top them up.
$150 at Apple (Stand) $150 at Apple (Pad) Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers Photograph: Apple Don’t Overpay for a Case And a Word on MagSafe iPhones are made of glass, and glass breaks, even if Apple uses ceramic to strengthen it. You need a case. Wireless carriers and Apple know this and will try to upsell you on cases and expensive accessories. If the cost doesn't matter to you, go for it. We've rounded up our favorite iPhone 15 , iPhone 14 , iPhone 13 , iPhone 12 , and iPhone SE cases here.
Magnetic MagSafe wireless charging is available only on iPhone 12, iPhone 13, iPhone 14, and iPhone 15 models. You can get first-party accessories like Apple's wireless MagSafe Charger , which sticks to the back of the phone for faster charging. Or snag the MagSafe Wallet.
 There are plenty of third-party accessories (you'll find quite a few in our guide ). If you use a case, get one that's MagSafe compatible to ensure a strong magnetic connection with Apple's accessories. Most of the cases we recommend are MagSafe-tested by yours truly.
Photograph: Apple What's the Deal With eSIMs? The iPhone Goes eSIM Only All iPhone 14 and newer devices completely ditch the physical SIM tray in the US, meaning you can no longer just pop your physical SIM inside to turn on cellular connectivity. Instead, you'll have to rely on an eSIM. You can read more about them here.
 This tech has been available in iPhones since the iPhone XS and XR, but now you have to use it. When you're setting up your new iPhone 14 or 15, you'll automatically be asked to transfer your number from your previous iPhone, and the whole process should take a few minutes without any hassle. (eSIMs are more secure than physical SIMs.) Note: Once you transfer your number, your physical SIM card won't work anymore.
However, there's a chance you may still run into some issues, especially if you're coming from an Android phone (or want to switch back to an Android phone). You'll have to check with your carrier to get your cellular connection in working order again. It shouldn't take long, but it's not as simple as popping in a physical card—yet. It's likely we'll start seeing more phones ditch the physical SIM card, and that could force carriers to make the process even easier.
Reviews Editor X Topics Shopping buying guides iPhone apple phones Julian Chokkattu Brenda Stolyar Julian Chokkattu Julian Chokkattu Adrienne So Nena Farrell Julian Chokkattu Jaina Grey WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart coupon: $10 Off any size order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% off any size order + free delivery with DoorDash promo code Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón
