Alumni
2023
https://www.fraunhofer.de/en

For Customers and Partners Jobs / Career Press / Newsroom Contact Deutsch For Customers and Partners [X] For Customers and Partners Plant, mechanical and vehicle engineering Construction industry Chemical industry Digital economy Energy sector Agriculture and food industry Healthcare sector Aerospace Economy Mobility sector A voice from the business world Press / Newsroom About Fraunhofer [X] About Fraunhofer Profile / Structure The Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft’s mission and DNA Facts and Figures Executive board / Presidential council Structure / Organization Cooperation With Universities Chronicles Social Media Corporate Social Responsibility Governance Guiding Principles Sustainability Compliance Fraunhofer Principles of Cooperation Research and Development Human Resources and Corporate Culture Diversity Management Management at Fraunhofer Careers with Fraunhofer Doctorate with Fraunhofer Temporary Employees Variable Compensation Internationality Resources and Procurement Corporate Citizenship Good Scientific Practice Declaration of Principles for the Respect of Human Rights Sustainability Standards for Suppliers Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2023 Excellence in Research Prizes and Distinctions Fraunhofer Research Awards 2023 Presentation of the Fraunhofer Research Awards Excellence Initiative Science Policy HQ Munich Capital Office Berlin Policy recommendations and position papers Policy Papers for the 2021 federal elections Science Policy in Germany Science Policy in the EU Institutes and Research Units [X] Institutes and Research Units Institutes and Research Establishments in Germany Fraunhofer Groups Energy Technologies and Climate Protection Health ICT Group Innovation Research Light & Surfaces Materials and Components Microelectronics Production Resource Technologies and Bioeconomy Fraunhofer Segment for Defense and Security VVS Fraunhofer Alliances Automobile Production Aviation and Space Battery Big Data AI Building Innovation Chemistry Energy Fraunhofer Agriculture and Food Industry Alliance Fraunhofer Transport Alliance Water Systems (SysWasser) Fraunhofer Clusters of Excellence Advanced Photon Sources Circular Plastics Economy Cognitive Internet Technologies Immune-Mediated Diseases Integrated Energy Systems Programmable Materials Cooperation Research Fab Microelectronics Germany (FMD) Fraunhofer Competence Network Quantum Computing Archive Terms of use Competence Centers Contact Quantum computing at Fraunhofer High Performance Centers Digital Transformation, Berlin Chemical and Biosystems Technology, Halle-Leipzig region DYNAFLEX: Dynamic and Flexible Processes for Energy and Raw Materials Transitions, Oberhausen Electronic Systems, Erlangen Functional Integration of Micro- and Nanoelectronics, Dresden and Chemnitz GreenMat4H2 – Sustainable Materials for the Hydrogen Economy Innovative Therapeutics (TheraNova), Rhine-Main region Integration of Biological and Physical-Chemical Material Functions, Potsdam-Golm Intelligent Signal Analysis and Assistance Systems – InSignA, Ilmenau International Center for Networked, Adaptive Production, Aachen Logistics and IT, Dortmund Mass Personalization, Stuttgart Medical and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Hannover Mobility Research Photonics, Jena Secure Networked Systems, Garching Simulation- and Software-Based Innovation, Kaiserslautern Smart Production and Materials, chemnitz Sustainability, Freiburg Sustainable Ocean Business Cybersecurity Training Lab Max Planck School of Photonics Cooperations with the Max Planck Society National Research Center for Applied Cybersecurity ATHENE Fraunhofer Worldwide Europe Austria Brussels / EU Hungary Ireland Italy Portugal Sweden United Kingdom North and Southamerica Canada USA Brazil Chile Asia Singapore China India Japan Korea Malaysia Africa and Middle East International Networks Internationalization strategy Research [X] Research Fraunhofer Strategic Research Fields Bioeconomy Digital Healthcare Artificial Intelligence (AI) Next Generation Computing Quantum Technologies Resource Efficiency and Climate Technologies Hydrogen Technologies Flagship projects / Initiatives Flagship projects A comprehensive process for building refurbishment that is sustainable, modular and circular – BAU-DNS Empathetic technical systems for resilient production – EMOTION 6G SENTINEL – The next generation of mobile communications ElKaWe – Electrocaloric heat pumps Experimental Vertical Take-Off and Landing Glider – ALBACOPTER® FutureCarProduction – comprehensive approaches for the evaluation and development of integral car body concepts for sustainable vehicle manufacturing FutureProteins – Coupled agricultural systems for a resilient and sustainbale production of high-quality food proteins MaNiTU – Materials for sustainable tandem solar cells with extremely high conversion efficiency NeurOSmart – Analog neuromorphic accelerators enabling efficient and smart sensors QMag – Quantum Magnetometry RNAuto – automated production of mRNA therapeutics ShaPID – Shaping the Future of Green Chemistry by Process Intensification and Digitalization SUBI2MA – Sustainable Biobasied and Biohybrid Materials SWAP – Hierarchical swarms as production architecture with optimized utilization International Data Spaces System Research Morgenstadt Innovation Platform Sustainable Sea and Ocean Solutions ISSS ISSS Event ISSS Partners About ISSS Technologies and Application Areas Range of Services Research / Development Technology transfer Impact of Fraunhofer Research Further Training / Fraunhofer Academy Events and Trade Fairs Jobs / Career [X] Jobs / Career Professionals Fraunhofer Attract Students Job offers abroad FAQ Application tips Recruiting female scientists Fraunhofer TALENTA Fraunhofer TALENTA start Fraunhofer TALENTA speed up Fraunhofer TALENTA excellence Science Campus Fraunhofer as an employer Fraunhofer mentoring — support along the career path Further training — assistance in expanding expertise Equal employment opportunities Work-life balance Networks and committee work Contact More Where am I? Homepage Alumni Alumni at Fraunhofer The Holodeck and the future of communication from Karlsruhe An interview with Miro Taphanel.
Leading mankind out of the video call hell is the objective of the Fraunhofer IOSB-Alumnus Miro Taphanel. In Gixel's communications solution people meet and see each other just if they were in the same room. We had the pleassure to talk to this co-founder of Gixel about this new approach to communication. Gixel is one of a few enterprises, that are financed through SPRIND, the German federal government’s Federal Agency for Disruptive Innovation, comparable to the US-DARPA-Programm.
read the interview “Finding a balance” An interview with Prof. Lydia Kaiser She holds a professorship in Digital Engineering 4.0 at TU Berlin and the Einstein Cen-ter Digital Future, she is a member of the German Federal Ministry of Defence’s digital council and, as one of the most significant experts in systems engineering, she is highly sought after as a conference speaker — all in all, Prof. Lydia Kaiser has quite a packed working schedule. Yet she still somehow manages to be there for her three children. While juggling her many roles, she is also fighting to make sure that women no longer have to struggle “to find a balance.” The scientist and alumna of Fraunhofer IEM re-ceived recognition for her efforts in 2022, when she won the FTAfelicitas award in the “Vorbild sein. #InspireAsRolemodel” category. This made her the second Fraunhofer alumna to win the award, after Mai Thi Nguyen Kim in 2021 — a real cause for cele-bration for us at Fraunhofer.
to the Interview “Boomerang, innovator and child of the mountains” — interview with Marc Tobias Marc Tobias, expert in innovation and business models, has spent much of his life outside in the mountains. His project “Kinder der Berge” (Children of the Mountains) aims to provide children who have undergone long-term intensive medical treatments with amazing experiences in nature. Between 2008 and 2009, he was the head of the Corporate and International Markets department at the Fraunhofer Center for International Management and Knowledge Economy IMW. He went on to become a management consultant for a University of St. Gallen spin-off and a senior expert for EU projects. Business models and strategies for transferring technology to industry still remain the focus of his career today. Since 2018, he has worked to develop such strategies in his role as a techtransfer strategies advisor at the Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft headquarters.
To the Interview The Femal Founding-Dancefloor Interview with Fraunhofer-Venture-Alumna Claire Siegert Claire Siegert is a digital nomad with an ambitious vision — she wants to welcome more women in the European startup ecosystem. The project is based on a social problem: among other things, there are significantly fewer female founders than male founders, it is more difficult for female founders to obtain venture capital and, last but not least, there is a lack of female role models in leadership positions.
To welcome more female founders into the startup ecosystem, the Fraunhofer Venture alumna co-founded Businettes, a company that aims to tackle these fundamental problems and help women found their own businesses. The Businettes online incubator program guides female founders through the business ideation process towards their own business case and product. The company also shares the stories of inspiring role models and delivers workshops designed to empower women in their roles as business leaders.
Claire Siegert studied international management and marketing at the Berlin School of Economics and Law (HWR Berlin), and ESCE International Business School in Paris. After various roles in the private sector, she then joined Fraunhofer IPA and Fraunhofer Venture to dive deeper into the startup scene.
In this interview, she explains how she found her way into the world of startups and shares her tips for fellow company founders.
to ThE Interview “A Fraunhofer family” — interview with Elisabeth Ewen for Fraunhofer-Alumni e. V.
On August 1, 2022, Elisabeth Ewen began her new role as Executive Vice President of Human Resources, Corporate Culture and Legal Affairs. Beeing a member of the advisory board since since the creation in 2016, Ms. Ewen has also played a major role in the Fraunhofer-Alumni e. V. association. As the Director of Human Resources at the Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft, she is responsible for all HR functions as well as the department headed by Michael Vogel, which includes the Fraunhofer-Alumni e. V. team. For her, the association is an important link in the Fraunhofer family — among other things, it enables networking that extends beyond the work at Fraunhofer. The new executive vice president believes that face-to-face contact is essential for developing new ideas, even in times marked by extensive digitalization. In this conversation, Ms. Ewen illustrates how she — a technophile lawyer — entered the world of research, the colleagues that she has stayed in contact with, the added value that she sees in Fraunhofer-Alumni e. V. and which key topics she wants to focus on in the future.
TO THE INTERVIEW “Explore and conquer” — an interview with Fraunhofer IAIS alumnus Salah Zayakh Salah Zayakh is the founder and CEO of a start-up in payment industry. His motto is: "Never be satisfied with the status quo!" And so his path led him from his studies through various career steps in software development, corporate strategy and finally into a position in management. He also gained valuable experience at the Fraunhofer Institute for Intelligent Analysis and Information Systems IAIS, where he was able to combine entrepreneurship and technology. This combination is still a common thread running through his projects today. On new unknown paths, however, he achieves sustainable success primarily through collaborative trial and error and learning, which is why he actively engaging as a mentor.
To the interview Interview with Prof. Dr.-Ing. Ingomar Kelbassa © Fraunhofer ILT Prof. Dr.-Ing. Ingomar Kelbassa worked in Aachen for a number of years. He was deputy Chair for Laser Technology LLT at RWTH Aachen University and head of department at the Fraunhofer Institute for Laser Technology ILT. In 2016, he joined Siemens. There, he was most recently responsible for the Siemens subsidiary WEISS Spindeltechnologie in his capacity as managing director and was in charge of the research campus Werner-von-Siemens Centre for Industry and Science in Berlin.
Now the ILT alumnus is returning to the Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft — as institute director of the Fraunhofer Research Institution for Additive Manufacturing Technologies IAPT. However, for Prof. Ingomar Kelbassa, “return” is the wrong word to use — he always felt a connection to Fraunhofer, and research and development were key areas of focus for the mechanical engineer during his six years in the private sector. Now he wants to further industrialize additive manufacturing (AM) at the IAPT in new ways. Despite the move from Dortmund to Hamburg, he will remain a die-hard fan, club member and shareholder of the football club Borussia Dortmund.
To the interview Looking back at the 5th Fraunhofer Alumni Summit “The Future of Logistics” © Fraunhofer Venture | Marc Müller/dedimag Greater resilience, more sustainability and digitalization — the focus of the 2021 Fraunhofer Alumni Summit, which was held in hybrid format for the first time, was the future of logistics.
Ordered today, delivered tomorrow. This level of convenience has long been taken for granted in today’s consumer society. However, many essential factors are required in order to maintain this standard, one of the most important of which is stable supply chains. In today’s collaborative and highly networked world, disruptions to supply chains have far-reaching consequences. Logistics, therefore, is the backbone and “enabler” of society, and the supply bottlenecks in recent months are just the latest in a series of events that have increasingly brought it to the attention of the general public. At the same time, this industry has been gaining in societal and economic importance.
To the Review "Everything is fractal" - an interview with Dr. Ruth Houbertz © Fraunhofer Venture | Marc Müller/dedimag As a scientist and entrepreneur, Dr. Ruth Houbertz is the recipient of several awards, such as the Joseph von Fraunhofer Prize and the Fraunhofer Founder's Prize. She initially worked at the Fraunhofer Institute for Silicate Research ISC and used it as a base to found Multiphoton Optics GmbH. She wanted to revolutionize data transmission with this company's technology. And the physicist is still convinced today that many current challenges could be solved with optical data transmission. Even though she decided to sell the company at the beginning of 2021. In this interview, the Würzburg resident talks about the new "Society6.0" project and the reasons for the sale, her role in science and business and her role as founder. Above all - joy and enthusiasm should not be given short shrift.
To the interview Beyond mp3 - Karlheinz Brandenburg on his new project Finding an inductee into the “Internet Hall of Fame” among the ranks of Fraunhofer alumni is no surprise: Prof. Dr.-Ing. Dr. rer. nat. h.c. mult. Karlheinz Brandenburg is one of the inventors of the MP3mp3 file format, probably the most important development for the music industry since the invention of vinyl records. Just a few months ago, he resigned as director of Fraunhofer IDMT to enjoy a “not-so-retired” retirement, as he puts it himself. Not content with just being a senior professor at Ilmenau University of Technology, the founder and CEO of Brandenburg Labs has also been enthusiastically working on “the next big thing”: PARty, quasi the acoustic equivalent of virtual reality. In addition to creating a perfect auditory illusion for the listener, the device serves as an acoustic magnifying glass or filter — essentially, it will allow the user to block out or listen closely to specific sounds. The possible applications are plentiful, but the project is still a long way off from being market ready. While the researchers are facing many challenges, as an investor and researcher, Brandenburg has not been scared off. As with the development of the MP3, this new project is the work of a relatively small, tightly knit team.
To the interview To the member section LOGIN REGISTER Join the Fraunhofer-Alumni e.V.
At the Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft we are taking the future into our own hands and asking again and again: What's next? As a Fraunhofer alumni, you have access to a worldwide and interdisciplinary network of top-class experts in business, science and politics. Benefit from the numerous advantages of this exclusive membership.
Alumni-FAQs FAQs Alumni brochure This bilingual brochure informs you about the most important offers, events and dates at a glance! Fraunhofer-Alumni e.V.
The Fraunhofer-Alumni-e.V. is a strong community of experts. Here, you can find out who can become a member of the Fraunhofer-Alumni-e.V.
Fraunhofer Alumni Meet-up in Beijing More than 40 participants came to the first Fraunhofer alumni event outside Germany. At the German Center in Beijing, they attended exciting lectures by Fraunhofer experts and networking in the brewery.
Fraunhofer-Alumni-Award 2022 »TECHNOLOGY4DEVELOPMENT« with this award we support socially oriented research projects.
More information Exclusive Meet former colleagues and develop your network at the annual alumni meeting, the "Alumni Summit", on November 10, 2017 in Munich.
Read exclusively assessments of future-relevant scientific topics by Fraunhofer experts Personal Stay connected to your home institute .
Get to know Fraunhofer alumni from the fields of business, science and politics.
Make new contacts at association events and on the Alumni Portal Fraunhofer-Alumni e.V.
The Fraunhofer-Alumni-e.V. is a strong community of experts. Here, you can find out who can become a member of the Fraunhofer-Alumni-e.V.
Become a member As a member of the Fraunhofer Alumni e.V., you are an active part of the alumni network – regardless of where you are currently working or researching.
Become a member (alumniportal.fraunhofer.de) International Network with Fraunhofer Fellows worldwide.
Stay up-to-date with international research news from the Fraunhofer world Find out more in our Portal Navigation and Social Media Share Quick Links Companies Scientists Alumni Sitemap Tenders Fraunhofer goes SAP GTC Publishing Notes Data Protection Policy © 2023 Source: Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft - Alumni Online in Internet; URL: https://www.fraunhofer.de/en/quick-links/alumni.html Date: 31.10.2023 21:09
