Two of World’s Biggest Quantum Computers Made in China - IEEE Spectrum
2023
https://spectrum.ieee.org/quantum-computers-china-zuchongzi-juizhang

The November 2023 issue of IEEE Spectrum is here! ↓ Share Topics Sections More For IEEE Members For IEEE Members IEEE Spectrum Follow IEEE Spectrum Support IEEE Spectrum IEEE websites place cookies on your device to give you the best user experience. By using our websites, you agree to the placement of these cookies. To learn more, read our Privacy Policy.
Enjoy more free content and benefits by creating an account Saving articles to read later requires an IEEE Spectrum account The Institute content is only available for members Downloading full PDF issues is exclusive for IEEE Members Access to Spectrum 's Digital Edition is exclusive for IEEE Members Following topics is a feature exclusive for IEEE Members Adding your response to an article requires an IEEE Spectrum account Create an account to access more content and features on IEEE Spectrum , including the ability to save articles to read later, download Spectrum Collections, and participate in conversations with readers and editors. For more exclusive content and features, consider Joining IEEE.
Join the world’s largest professional organization devoted to engineering and applied sciences and get access to all of Spectrum’s articles, archives, PDF downloads, and other benefits.
Learn more → Access Thousands of Articles — Completely Free Create an account and get exclusive content and features: Save articles, download collections, and talk to tech insiders — all free! For full access and benefits, join IEEE as a paying member.
IEEE Spectrum is asking for your feedback Take the Survey → Two of World’s Biggest Quantum Computers Made in China Quantum computers Zuchongzi and Jiuzhang 2.0 may both display "quantum primacy" over classical computers 06 Nov 2021 Chinese optical quantum computer Jiuzhang 2.0 can solve a problem 10^24 faster than a classical computer.
Two of the most powerful quantum computers in the world to date now both come from China, and new experiments with them re-ignite the controversy over what kinds of problems might be quantum computationally solvable that couldn't begin to be solved by a conventional supercomputer.
A quantum computer with great enough complexity—for instance, enough components known as quantum bits or “qubits"—could in theory achieve a " quantum advantage " allowing it to find the answers to problems no classical computer could ever solve. In principle, a quantum computer with 300 qubits could perform more calculations in an instant than there are atoms in the visible universe.
In 2019, Google argued it displayed such " quantum primacy " with its 53-qubit Sycamore processor, carrying out a calculation in 200 seconds that the company estimated would take Summit , the world's most powerful supercomputer at that time , 10,000 years. However, IBM researchers later called that quantum advantage claim in question , arguing that with better classical algorithms, Summit could actually solve that problem in 2.5 days.
“The current state of the art is that no experiments have demonstrated quantum advantage for practical tasks yet." —Chao-Yang Lu, The University of Science and Technology of China Now scientists in China have tested two different quantum computers on what they say are more challenging tasks than Sycamore faced and showed faster results. They note their work points to "an unambiguous quantum computational advantage." In one study, the researchers experimented with Zuchongzi , which used 56 superconducting qubits on a task whose solutions are random instances, or samples, from a given spread of probabilities.
 They found Zuchongzi completed such a sampling task in 1.2 hours, one they estimated would take Summit at least 8.2 years to finish. They also noted this sampling task was tens to hundreds of times more computationally demanding than what Google used to establish quantum advantage with Sycamore.
In another study, the scientists tested Jiuzhang 2.0, a photonic quantum computer , using Gaussian boson sampling, a task where the machine analyzes random patches of data. Using 113 detected photons, they estimated Jiuzhang 2.0 could solve the problem roughly 10 24 faster than classical supercomputers.
Although the sampling task used in experiments with Zuchongzi has no known practical value, the Gaussian boson sampling problem on which Jiuzhang 2.0 was tested potentially has many practical applications, such as identifying which pairs of molecules are the best fits for each other. As such, this work may have quantum chemistry applications in simulating vital molecules and chemical reactions, says physicist Chao-Yang Lu at the University of Science and Technology of China in Hefei, a co-author on both studies.
These new experiments are "solid and necessary steps toward building increasingly advanced quantum computers," Lu notes. But he also cautions against the increasing hype surrounding quantum computing.
"So far, the computational problems that can truly benefit from quantum computing are still quite limited," Lu says. "The current state of the art is that no experiments have demonstrated quantum advantage for practical tasks yet. While we should not be too pessimistic and short-sighted as ' the world needs only five quantum computers ,' we should also make a difference between optimism and exaggeration." The scientists detailed their findings Oct. 25 in two studies in the journal Physical Review Letters.
Competing Visions Underpin China's Quantum Computer Race ... › The Case Against Quantum Computing - IEEE Spectrum › Recordbreaking Photonic Quantum Computer Comes From a Startup › China Is Pulling Ahead in Global Quantum Race, New Studies ... › Two Chinese teams claim to have reached primacy with quantum ... › Charles Q. Choi is a science reporter who contributes regularly to IEEE Spectrum.
 He has written for Scientific American , The New York Times , Wired , and Science , among others.
Godfree Roberts 07 Nov, 2021 Apparently, China has also earned line honors for conventional computing, with two machines recording sustained 1.3 exascale speeds.
Both machines are upgrades of previous computers, with faster scratch-built, machines expected in 2022.
0 Shah Jamali 07 Nov, 2021 Wow that's amazing. It is like a shell or orbit, love to read about technically and Quantum shell computers ❤️ 0 Virtual Superlensing Made a Reality 13h Backing Up the Power Grid With Green Methanol 14h Nvidia Is Piloting a Generative AI for Its Engineers 15h Related Stories No Signs Yet of Gallium or Germanium Shortage IonQ Unveils Rack-Mounted Quantum Computers China’s AI-Tocracy Quells Protests and Boosts AI Innovation
