Heidelberg-based Aleph Alpha raises €5.3 million to lead "Made in Europe" AI development | EU-Startups
2023
https://www.eu-startups.com/2021/01/heidelberg-based-aleph-alpha-raises-e5-3-million-to-lead-made-in-europe-ai-development

Magazine Interviews Re-/Launch Funding Acquisitions Other Stuff Know-How Summit EU-Startups Summit 2024 2023 edition 2022 edition 2021 edition 2019 edition 2018 edition 2017 Edition 2016 Edition 2015 Edition 2014 Edition Job Board Job Board Post a Job Insights Startup Sourcing Premium Reports Podcast Database Startup Database Add a startup About us Mission / Team Advertising Our Newsletter – CLUB – Register Now Log In CLUB Benefits Welcome! Search Magazine Interviews Re-/Launch Funding Acquisitions Other Stuff Know-How Summit EU-Startups Summit 2024 2023 edition 2022 edition 2021 edition 2019 edition 2018 edition 2017 Edition 2016 Edition 2015 Edition 2014 Edition Job Board Job Board Post a Job Insights Startup Sourcing Premium Reports Podcast Database Startup Database Add a startup About us Mission / Team Advertising Our Newsletter – CLUB – Register Now Log In CLUB Benefits Search Magazine Interviews Re-/Launch Funding Acquisitions Other Stuff Know-How Summit EU-Startups Summit 2024 2023 edition 2022 edition 2021 edition 2019 edition 2018 edition 2017 Edition 2016 Edition 2015 Edition 2014 Edition Job Board Job Board Post a Job Insights Startup Sourcing Premium Reports Podcast Database Startup Database Add a startup About us Mission / Team Advertising Our Newsletter – CLUB – Register Now Log In CLUB Benefits Search Home Funding Heidelberg-based Aleph Alpha raises €5.3 million to lead "Made in Europe" AI...
Heidelberg-based Aleph Alpha raises €5.3 million to lead “Made in Europe” AI development By Today AI startup Aleph Alpha announces having raised a €5.3 million seed funding round to research, develop and operationalize European Artificial General Intelligence (AGI).
Headquartered in Germany, Aleph Alpha aims to revolutionize the accessibility and usability of Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) in Europe. Founded in 2019, by experts at the forefront of international AI research, Aleph Alpha develops strong AI technology for partners in academia, government and industry.
Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) will have a significant impact on future generations. The startup warns that “incumbent societal structures” are not yet prepared for a fast approaching ‘AGI future’, and that navigating these challenges will require profound technical innovation, social finesse and courage.
The startup is taking on Europe’s growing concerns about important issues such as data sovereignty and the ability to work with sensitive information when engaging with Non-European AI companies. Aleph Alpha will offer access to its technology via an API, enabling companies and organizations of any size to build their own AGI applications and products. Moreover, it sets its own research highlights to develop European thought leadership on AGI for the creation of a new European AI ecosystem.
Starting with a German GPT-3 for high security environments, Aleph Alpha plans to expand to new application environments as well as other EU countries and sectors. The fresh funding enables Aleph Alpha to attract more European AI scientists and engineers from around the world for top AI development “Made in Europe”. Jonas Andrulis, founder and CEO of Aleph Alpha and former AI Research Director at Apple’s Special Projects Group (SPG), explained: “We want to work with the best talent in Artificial Intelligence on one of the most important projects in the European AI ecosystem.” Why this focus on Europe? Current generations of AI are based on small use case-specific models trained on proprietary datasets, but the global AI landscape is changing rapidly. The latest generation of AI models are use-case agnostic, allowing them to be used in a variety of application domains without explicit training. In the foreseeable future, numerous new AI application domains and business models will be based on these general AI models. US tech giants OpenAI and Microsoft have already launched the first commercial AGI API, named GPT-3. As with cloud technology, Europe is in danger of losing touch with the world tech leaders. With its research, development and exploitation of General Artificial Intelligence “Made in Europe”, Aleph Alpha thus strengthens the sovereignty of the European AI ecosystem.
This truly European vision is also backed by leading German tech VCs LEA Partners, 468 Capital and Cavalry Ventures. For LEA Partners and 468 Capital, it is the largest seed ticket to date.
Bernhard Janke from LEA Partners commented: “Jonas has assembled a top-notch AI engineering team alongside a great industry and scientific network. We are proud to lead this syndicate of exceptional investors and help to building AGI sovereignty out of Europe. “ Ludwig Ensthaler from 468 Capital said: “As an investor specializing in tech, we are deeply impressed with the strong technical expertise of Aleph Alpha’s founder [Jonas Andrulis] and his ambition to strengthen the sovereignty of the European AI ecosystem. We are convinced that it is Aleph Alpha that will enable companies and organizations of any size to leverage the full potential of Artificial Intelligence.” Claude Ritter from Cavalry Ventures: “AGI is the Holy Grail of artificial intelligence. We firmly believe that Jonas and his team at Aleph Alpha possess all the essential elements that are relevant to the development of a leading AGI: A deep understanding of and extensive practical expertise in Machine Learning, a profound comprehension of the needs of politics and industry, and a truly European mindset.” Tags 468 Capital AI Aleph Alpha artificial intelligence Cavalry Ventures Heidelberg LEA Partners Previous article Next article RELATED ARTICLES Barcelona-based Piper secures €3 million to automate repetitive tasks for sales teams October 25, 2023 German startup NEURA Robotics secures €15 million to become a solution for shortage of skilled workers October 13, 2023 The new evolution of technology and art: 10 startups innovating music art and entertainment in Europe October 11, 2023 Finnish energy tech startup Capalo AI raises €500k to make energy storage investments more desirable October 11, 2023 Utrecht-based Cordys Analytics secures €900k to help improve early detection of heart disease with data October 3, 2023 Bologna-based Cellply secures €3.6 million setting sights on future growth September 29, 2023 Turning waste into wealth: 10 promising European startups tackling the food waste crisis September 28, 2023 Stuttgart-based metergrid raises €2.7 million seed to turn landlords into green energy providers September 27, 2023 10 dental care startups in Europe making your teeth shine bright like a diamond September 26, 2023 STARTUP NEWS – By Country Austria Belgium Croatia Czechia Denmark Estonia Finland France Germany Greece Hungary Ireland Italy Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Malta Netherlands Norway Poland Portugal Romania Slovakia Slovenia Spain Sweden Switzerland UK Receive our weekly Newsletter Our Channels Latest Jobs Lead Cloud Platform Engineer Amsterdam, Netherlands Lead Go Engineer Amsterdam, Netherlands Senior Go Engineer Amsterdam, Netherlands Senior Frontend Engineer (React) Amsterdam, Netherlands Data Scientist (LLMs) Amsterdam, Netherlands View All Advertising Most Popular SDG14 Challenge: Unlocking the Potential of the Blue Economy October 31, 2023 London-based HR tech firm Spotted Zebra raises €8.8 million to help enterprises tackle the global skills crisis October 31, 2023 Barcelona-based sportstech Lapso Studios snaps €1.5 million to speed up expansion in the rest of Spain October 31, 2023 Tampere-based Wirepas raises €20.7 million to build low-cost wireless IoT connectivity for global enterprises October 31, 2023 ABOUT US EU-Startups.com is the leading online magazine about startups in Europe. Learn more about us and our advertising options.
FOLLOW US Facebook Instagram Linkedin RSS Twitter © Menlo Media S.L. - All rights reserved.
