The Nippon Foundation
2023
https://www.nippon-foundation.or.jp/en

HOME Who We Are Who We Are: Home Mission Chairman's Message Fields of Activity Organization Foundation History Location Our Partners Finances Brochure (PDF / 5MB) Who We Are Mission Chairman's Message Fields of Activity Organization Foundation History Location Our Partners Finances Brochure (PDF / 2MB) What We Do News 日本語 2023.10.24 The Nippon Foundation’s International Seminar on Offshore Development News DeepStar's director Shakir Shamshy giving the keynote presentation The Nippon Foundation’s International Seminar on Offshore Development was held at the Foundation’s head office in Tokyo on September 28. The seminar used a hybrid in-person and online format and roughly 170 people participated, with presentations by speakers followed by a lively question and answer session.
The Nippon Foundation’s International Seminar on Offshore Development 2023.10.10 Ceremony to Deliver Small Ambulance Airplane for Emergency Transport on Remote Islands News The Nippon Foundation President Takeju Ogata and MESH Support Executive Director Hiroki Tsukamoto standing in front of the donated airplane A ceremony was held at Naha Airport (Okinawa Prefecture) on September 28 to deliver a small airplane to MESH Support, an NGO that uses aircraft to support medical services. The airplane was purchased with a 166 million yen grant provided by The Nippon Foundation, and will go into use from October 1.
Ceremony to Deliver Small Ambulance Airplane for Emergency Transport on Remote Islands 2023.10.10 Autumn Cosplay de UMIGOMI Zero Week 2023 Kickoff Event Held News Group photo of participating cosplayers September 16 to 24 was designated UMIGOMI Zero Week 2023 ( umigomi is a combination of the Japanese words for ocean ( umi ) and waste or trash ( gomi )) as part of a project being carried out by The Nippon Foundation and Japan’s Ministry of the Environment to address the growing problem of ocean debris, and Cosplay de UMIGOMI Zero Challenge 2023 was held as a kickoff event in Yokohama on September 16.
Autumn Cosplay de UMIGOMI Zero Week 2023 Kickoff Event Held 2023.10.11 Event Held to Convey Appeal of Ocean and Awareness of Issues to Parents and Children News Photograph of participants: (left to right, excluding mascot characters) The Nippon Foundation Ocean Affairs Dept. Senior Program Director Tatsuki Nakajima, Masaru Hamaguchi, 2008 Beijing Olympic volleyball team member Takahiro Yamamoto, and Director of the Hasegawa Machiko Art Museum Junji Kawaguchi) The Nippon Foundation held an event at the Ito-Yokado store in Kiba, Tokyo, on September 30 and October 1 for young people and families with children to convey the appeal of the ocean and raise awareness of issues related to the ocean environment that are becoming increasingly serious at a global level.
Event Held to Convey Appeal of Ocean and Awareness of Issues to Parents and Children 2023.10.17 The Nippon Foundation Releases Report on Asia-Pacific Deaf Projects News The Nippon Foundation has released “A Report on Asia Pacific Projects: Deaf education, sign language linguistics and teaching projects supported by The Nippon Foundation.” The Nippon Foundation Releases Report on Asia-Pacific Deaf Projects 2023.10.05 Events Highlighting ‘Fish’ in Yamanashi and Hokkaido News A child learning the san-mai oroshi technique to fillet aji The Nippon Foundation’s Umi-to-Nippon Project (The Ocean and Japan Project) conducts events throughout the year to raise awareness across Japan of ocean-related issues and encourage people to feel closer to the ocean. Two of the events being held in October 2023 are a fish preparation workshop for parents and children in Yamanashi Prefecture, and a buri (yellowtail or Japanese amberjack) promotional campaign being held in Hokkaido.
Events Highlighting ‘Fish’ in Yamanashi and Hokkaido 2023.09.22 Free Sign Language Search and Learning App ‘SignTown Handbook’ Released, Uses AI to Recognize Signs News Coinciding with the International Day of Sign Languages*1 on September 23, The Nippon Foundation released the SignTown Handbook sign language learning app on September 10. The app is a simple dictionary that makes it easy to search for and learn signs. SignTown Handbook was released as the second stage of The Nippon Foundation’s Project Shuwa,*2 which in September 2021 released the SignTown sign language learning game, jointly developed with the Chinese University of Hong Kong and in collaboration with Google and Kwansei Gakuin University.
The SignTown Handbook also ties in with the theme for International Day of Sign Languages 2023, “A World Where Deaf People Everywhere Can Sign Anywhere!” It can be used as a tool to enable many people to learn sign language and for people to have simple conversations in sign language. The project aims to increase the number of people engaged in sign language interpretation and to support the active participation of deaf people in a wide range of activities in the future.
Free Sign Language Search and Learning App ‘SignTown Handbook’ Released, Uses AI to Recognize Signs 2023.09.11 On-site study tour on ocean debris at Seto Inland Sea News Collecting and sorting ocean debris mixed in with fish caught while trawling The Nippon Foundation held a study tour on September 9 to raise awareness of ocean debris among athletes as part of the Setouchi Oceans X project, which is being jointly carried out by four of the prefectures bordering the Seto Inland Sea and The Nippon Foundation. The event was held on Kitagi-shima, an island in the Okayama Prefecture section of the Seto Inland Sea.
On-site study tour on ocean debris at Seto Inland Sea 2023.08.03 Skipping Rope in a Wheelchair? News Group photo from a camp event held by D-SHiPS32 for children with disabilities and children without disabilities (Photo provided by D-SHiPS32) D-SHiPS32 is an NGO working to create new frameworks to promote a donation culture in Japan. The group is led by Daisuke Uehara, who was a member of Japan’s para ice hockey team at the Winter Paralympics in 2006, 2010, and 2018. The group is using the proceeds from the sale of non-fungible tokens (NFTs) *1 to create an interactive metaverse *2 for children with disabilities.
Skipping Rope in a Wheelchair? 2023.09.01 Awareness Survey of 18-Year-Olds – Generative AI News The 57th installment of the Awareness Survey of 18-Year-Olds, launched by The Nippon Foundation in October 2018, was carried out from August 19 to 20 on the subject of “Generative AI.” The survey found that, of 1,000 young people aged 17 to 19, close to 90% “Knew of” generative artificial intelligence and close to 40% had used it, primarily to create text, while roughly 60% of those who had not used it “Would like to try” using generative AI.
Awareness Survey of 18-Year-Olds – Generative AI 2023.07.26 “MetLife Foundation and The Nippon Foundation: ‘Better Life Better Place’ for the Elderly and Children” Program Opens New Facilities News At the Anma-no-Ie opening ceremony: (left to right) The Nippon Foundation Executive Director Kazuhiro Yoshikura, NGO Home Hospice Yuitaba Director Hatsue Yamashita, Metlife Japan Executive Officer and Head of Corporate Affairs Paul Miles MetLife Foundation Home Hospice Anma-no-Ie MetLife Insurance K.K. (“MetLife Japan”) and The Nippon Foundation held a ceremony on July 26 to mark the opening of MetLife Foundation Home Hospice Anma-no-Ie in Kagoshima City, Kagoshima Prefecture. This is the second home hospice to open as part of the “MetLife Foundation and The Nippon Foundation: ‘Better Life Better Place’ for the Elderly and Children” program.
*1 Amid the accelerated aging of Japanese society, there is a need for places where people can feel at ease at the end of their lives.
*2 This program offers people a final home where they can live out their days securely in a familiar, home-like atmosphere.
“MetLife Foundation and The Nippon Foundation: ‘Better Life Better Place’ for the Elderly and Children” Program Opens New Facilities 2023.07.14 Fishermen and Students Taking on the Challenge of Ocean Acidification News The Hiyase waterfront in Okayama Prefecture The Nippon Foundation Ocean Acidification Adaptation Project was launched in April 2020 to identify the situation regarding the increasing acidification of the ocean in Japan’s coastal areas and its effect on the fishing industry. A survey conducted by the project showed, as of March 2022, multiple instances of acidification levels in oyster farms that could affect the Pacific oyster ( Magallana gigas , also known as the Japanese oyster or Miyagi oyster). At the same time, there was no confirmation of direct damage including abnormal development or death of floating larvae, and it was determined that acidification had not reached a level that will damage the fishing industry at that time.
Fishermen and Students Taking on the Challenge of Ocean Acidification 2023.07.20 Seminar on Fully Autonomous Shipping Held News Panel discussion on Expectations and Challenges for the Commercialization of Fully Autonomous Ships (left to right: Takeshi Natsuno, Yuki Saji, Haruka Nishimura, Tatsunori Kaneko, Manabu Tanabe, and Luis Benito) A seminar to provide the latest information related to fully autonomous shipping was held at The Nippon Foundation’s head office in Tokyo on July 20. The seminar included a keynote address by an expert in autonomous shipping, a panel discussion on the potential for its implementation, and the announcement of the second stage of the MEGURI2040 Fully Autonomous Ship Program being carried out by The Nippon Foundation. Participants included representatives of companies and research institutions who are developing automation technologies for autonomous ships and shipping, and university students who intend to enter maritime fields. They expressed their high hopes for the implementation of fully autonomous shipping, noting that the diverse panel gave updates on the latest trends and that the seminar generated new interest.
Seminar on Fully Autonomous Shipping Held 2023.05.15 ‘Tooth Memorial’ Held for 50 Years in Saga Prefecture Transcends Time News Members of the Ogi-Taku Dental Association The Tooth Fairy project is being carried out jointly by the Japan Dental Association and The Nippon Foundation, using discarded gold and silver used in dental procedures and collected by dentists across Japan, and converting it into cash that is used for various activities that contribute to society. The project was launched in 2009, and as of April 27, 2023, it had close to 7,000 participating dental clinics and had raised more than 2.2 billion yen.
‘Tooth Memorial’ Held for 50 Years in Saga Prefecture Transcends Time 2023.07.11 Report on Initiatives of ‘Working Group on Remote Work by Persons with Disabilities’ Issued News The Nippon Foundation launched the Working Group on Remote Work by Persons with Disabilities in June 2020. The Working Group includes members with a variety of disabilities including visual, hearing, mental, and locomotor dysfunction, and met online because of the coronavirus pandemic.
Report on Initiatives of ‘Working Group on Remote Work by Persons with Disabilities’ Issued 2023.06.23 All 17 THE TOKYO TOILET Project Toilets Completed News A ceremony was held on June 23 at the Shibuya City Hall to hand over the public toilets renovated by The Nippon Foundation’s THE TOKYO TOILET project to the Shibuya City government. With the aim of realizing a society that embraces diversity, the project renovated public toilets at 17 locations in Shibuya, so that they can be used by anyone regardless of gender, age, or disability. The project was carried out with the participation of 16 creators who endorsed this goal and used the power of design and creativity to offer proposals for a new society. The project was launched in 2018 and will conclude at the end of fiscal 2023, with Shibuya City taking over the toilets’ maintenance and upkeep.
At the ceremony, The Nippon Foundation Executive Director Jumpei Sasakawa, Shibuya Mayor Ken Hasebe, and Koji Yanai, Director of retailer Fast Retailing, which provided funding for the project, spoke about the project’s objectives and issues related to the maintenance and upkeep of public toilets.
To ensure a smooth handover of operations, The Nippon Foundation will continue to participate in the project’s management committee and provide funding support until the end of fiscal 2023 (ending March 31, 2024). The Foundation will also summarize and make use of the survey data and expertise gained through the project as reference for other local governments.
All 17 THE TOKYO TOILET Project Toilets Completed 2023.06.05 Draining Remote River Section for Efficient Collection of Roughly 2 Tons of Debris News As part of its efforts to reduce plastic ocean debris, The Nippon Foundation, in cooperation with Utazu Town, Marugame City, and Sakide City in Kagawa Prefecture, carried out a verification project on June 4 for the efficient collection of debris from the riverbanks along a section of the Daisoku River that is difficult for people to access to collect trash.
Uneven terrain and fences make the riverbanks difficult to access, and large amounts of debris accumulate in areas that are overgrown with weeds. This large cleanup activity was held prior to the start of rainy season, when rain washes large amounts of debris into the ocean. After lowering the water level by diverting the river’s upstream water to agricultural channels and letting the remainder flow directly into the ocean, volunteers entered the riverbed and collected roughly two tons of plastic debris that had been scattered along roughly two kilometers of the river. This verification project demonstrated that debris that had been scattered by a river could be collected efficiently, even in an area that is difficult to access.
Roughly 350 people participated in the event, including members of local fishery cooperatives, people involved in agricultural channel management, members of local fire brigades and local governments, motorboat racers, and students, who were joined by Kagawa Governor Toyohito Ikeda and The Nippon Foundation Executive Director Mitsuyuki Unno. The Nippon Foundation will use the knowledge gained from the event to continue to build models for efficient trash collection activities in areas like rivers and remote islands that are difficult to access.
Draining Remote River Section for Efficient Collection of Roughly 2 Tons of Debris 2023.04.26 Launch of Project to Study Possibilities for Collaboration with Next Generation of Nikkei News During the preparatory meeting The Nippon Foundation launched the “Project to Study Possibilities for Collaboration with the Next Generation of Nikkei” in April 2023. The project aims to use the Foundation’s experience and networks from its support of Nikkei communities to date, to provide a platform for discussion among next-generation Nikkei * leaders who face similar challenges without being constrained by position, affiliation, or interests.
Launch of Project to Study Possibilities for Collaboration with Next Generation of Nikkei 2023.05.30 Japan–China Private-Sector Exchanges to Resume News (Left to right) Japan China Medical Association President Hideoki Ogawa, The Nippon Foundation Chairman Yohei Sasakawa, Sasakawa Peace Foundation President Atsushi Sunami A press conference was held at The Nippon Foundation’s head office in Tokyo on May 30 to announce the resumption of two private-sector exchange programs between Japan and China. This year marks the 45th anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Peace and Friendship between Japan and China, and in July the Japan–China Field Officer Exchange program for officers of the Japan Self Defense Forces and the People’s Liberation Army, which had been suspended for four years because of the coronavirus pandemic, is scheduled to resume.
Japan–China Private-Sector Exchanges to Resume The Nippon Foundation Support for Evacuees from Ukraine Project [Support in Japan] Financial Assistance to Evacuees from Ukraine We are providing assistance for travel and living expenses for Ukrainian citizens who have evacuated to Japan as a result of Russia’s invasion in February 2022 and who have a guarantor with residence status in Japan.
The Nippon Foundation Support for Evacuees from Ukraine Emergency Support in Response to Spread of Coronavirus Infections Project The Nippon Foundation is carrying out the following support measures while closely following the situation with regard to infections.
Emergency Support in Response to Spread of Coronavirus Infections 2023.05.23 4th Awareness Survey of 10,000 Women – Declining Birthrate and Raising Children News With the declining birthrate having become a major issue for Japan, in March 2023 The Nippon Foundation conducted its 4th Awareness Survey of 10,000 Women, on the topic of “Declining Birthrate and Raising Children,” to gauge Japanese women’s attitudes toward raising children against a backdrop of a declining birthrate.
4th Awareness Survey of 10,000 Women – Declining Birthrate and Raising Children 2023.04.05 Facility Dogs Visiting Children’s Hospitals Across Japan News Facility dog Annie enjoys the attention of a hospitalized child and her mother Providing emotional support to children with serious illnesses Facility dogs are service dogs specifically trained to be close to children hospitalized with serious illnesses. They are part of the hospital staff and provide emotional support to children and their families. The dogs accompany children when doing things like going to the operating room or when having blood samples taken, and their presence helps to relieve the children’s stress, approach their treatment with a positive attitude, and promote a healthy appetite and rehabilitation.
Facility Dogs Visiting Children’s Hospitals Across Japan 2023.03.24 New Public Toilets Open in Hatagaya, Sasazuka Greenway, and Nishisando News Miles Pennington standing in front of the Hatagaya public toilet The Nippon Foundation’s THE TOKYO TOILET project is recreating public toilets in 17 locations in Shibuya, Tokyo, to make them accessible to everyone. The 15th facility, in Hatagaya (3-37-8 Hatagaya, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo; UTokyo DLX Design Lab / Miles Pennington, creator) opened to the public on February 22; the 16th facility, in Sasazuka Greenway (1-29 Sasazuka, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo; Junko Kobayashi / Gondola Architects, creator), opened on March 10; and the 17th facility, in Nishisando (3-27-1 Yoyogi, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo; Sou Fujimoto, creator), opened on March 24.
New Public Toilets Open in Hatagaya, Sasazuka Greenway, and Nishisando The Nippon Foundation – Nekton Ocean Census Project The Nippon Foundation – Nekton Ocean Census is a global initiative to discover unknown marine life, jointly launched by The Nippon Foundation and Nekton Foundation as an open network based on cooperation among the scientific world, the media, academia, business, and the private sector.
The Nippon Foundation – Nekton Ocean Census 2023.04.28 Launch of The Nippon Foundation-Nekton Ocean Census News The Nippon Foundation Chairman Yohei Sasakawa (left) and Nekton Chair Rupert Grey (right) announcing the project launch at the Royal Institution of Great Britain On April 27 (London time), The Nippon Foundation and Nekton Foundation of Britain announced the launch of The Nippon Foundation-Nekton Ocean Census, an international project to explore unknown marine life.
Launch of The Nippon Foundation-Nekton Ocean Census 2023.04.18 The Nippon Foundation Recognized by Peru’s Congress News María del Pilar Cordero Jon Tay, Chairperson of the Peru-Japan Friendship League of Congress, presenting a certificate of commendation to The Nippon Foundation President Takeju Ogata Marking the 34th anniversary of Peruvian-Japanese Friendship Day, a certificate of commendation jointly signed by María del Pilar Cordero Jon Tay, Chairperson of the Peru-Japan Friendship League of Congress, and José Daniel Williams Zapata, President of the Congress of Peru, was presented to The Nippon Foundation on April 3, 2023. The presentation was in recognition of the Foundation’s contributions to Peru, and to Peru’s Nikkei * society in particular, in areas including support for medical and welfare facilities in Peru and human resource development for young Nikkei.
The Nippon Foundation Recognized by Peru’s Congress 2023.03.22 MetLife Foundation Ratan Opens as First Children’s 3rd Place in Unzen, Nagasaki News At the opening ceremony (left to right): Unzen Mayor Hidesaburo Kanazawa, The Nippon Foundation Executive Director Jumpei Sasakawa, Single Parent Support Association Nagasaki President Teruko Fukuchi, Metlife Japan Executive Officer and Head of Corporate Affairs Paul Miles, and Unzen City Assembly Chairperson Fumiaki Matsuo MetLife Insurance K.K. (“MetLife Japan”) and The Nippon Foundation held a ceremony on March 21 to mark the opening of MetLife Foundation Ratan in the city of Unzen in Nagasaki Prefecture. This is the first Children’s 3rd Place *1 to open in Unzen, as well as the first to open as part of the “MetLife Foundation and The Nippon Foundation: ‘Better Life Better Place’ for the Elderly and Children” program.
*2 MetLife Foundation Ratan Opens as First Children’s 3rd Place in Unzen, Nagasaki 2023.03.17 Awareness Survey of 18-Year-Olds – Local Legislative Assemblies News With local elections to take place across Japan in April, the 55th installment of the Awareness Survey of 18-Year-Olds, launched by The Nippon Foundation in October 2018, was carried out from February 22 to 27 on the subject of “Local Legislative Assemblies.” The survey found that, of young people aged 18 and older who are residents of prefectures or municipalities where elections are scheduled, roughly 15% were aware of the upcoming elections. Of those respondents, more than 80% intend to vote, but that still means that only roughly 12% of all young people will vote.
Awareness Survey of 18-Year-Olds – Local Legislative Assemblies 2022.04.15 [To People Displaced from Ukraine] Accepting Applications for Travel Expense, Daily Living Expense, and Home Furnishing Expense Assistance from April 20 (Applications Closed) (English translation for information purposes only) News The Nippon Foundation is providing assistance for travel expenses, daily living expenses, and home furnishing expenses to people who have evacuated from Ukraine to Japan. The details are as follows.
[To People Displaced from Ukraine] Accepting Applications for Travel Expense, Daily Living Expense, and Home Furnishing Expense Assistance from April 20 (Applications Closed) (English translation for information purposes only) 2023.02.28 Awareness Survey of 18-Year-Olds – National Diet and Politicians News The 54th installment of the Awareness Survey of 18-Year-Olds, launched by The Nippon Foundation in October 2018, was carried out from January 27 to February 1 on the subject of the “National Diet and Politicians.” The survey of 1,000 respondents in Japan aged 17 to 19 was intended to examine young people’s interest in politics and their impression and opinions regarding the Diet (national legislature) and Diet members.
The results showed that while a majority of respondents expressed interest in politics for reasons including “Politics will be relevant to my life now or in the future,” negative views including “Responses to unforeseen events,” “Reflecting the people’s will,” and “Lack of integrity / transparency” were expressed, with a majority saying that the Diet is “Not a place for meaningful policy deliberation” and more than 60% feeling that the “Opinions of young people are not incorporated.” In addition, when asked if they had “High hopes” for today’s politics, only one in five replied affirmatively, with the remaining 80% saying they did not. With regard to measures to improve the functioning of the Diet, the top replies for how to increase interest in politics were the “Election of younger Diet members” and “Online activities.” Awareness Survey of 18-Year-Olds – National Diet and Politicians 2023.02.20 1 Year After Russian Invasion, Evacuees from Ukraine Discuss Their State of Mind News (Left to right) Olha Vdovenko, holding her daughter Bohdana, Igor Kulemza and his wife Vira Rubezhanska, and Yuliia Vatsyk Ahead of the first anniversary of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine on February 24, 2022, four of the 1,921 Ukrainian evacuees to Japan receiving support for travel and living expenses from The Nippon Foundation gathered on February 20 to discuss the issues they currently face in Japan and their thoughts regarding their home country.
1 Year After Russian Invasion, Evacuees from Ukraine Discuss Their State of Mind 2023.02.08 Awareness Survey of 18-Year-Olds – National Security News The 53 rd installment of the Awareness Survey of 18-Year-Olds, launched by The Nippon Foundation in October 2018, was carried out from January 11-16 on the subject of “National Security.” The survey of 1,000 respondents in Japan aged 17 to 19 was intended to examine young people’s attitudes and opinions regarding peace and Japan’s national security policies, and increasing the defense budget.
When asked what they saw as the biggest threat to Japan over the next five years, the top response among both men and women was “war or the effects from conflict among countries neighboring Japan,” followed by an “armed attack by another country against Japan.” More than 30% of respondents also rated the likelihood of Japan becoming involved in an armed conflict with another country within the next five years as “50% or higher.” Opinion was divided with regard to the increase in defense spending currently being deliberated in the Diet, with 38% approving and 32% disapproving.
Awareness Survey of 18-Year-Olds – National Security Together with Nikkei Communities Project Group photo of Nikkei Scholars (at Boat Race Heiwajima) Supporting Nikkei communities around the world for 50 years The Nippon Foundation began supporting Nikkei * communities in various countries in the 1970s as a tribute to the early generations of Japanese emigrants who overcame numerous hardships in other countries under emigration policies and who laid the foundation of today’s Nikkei communities. In addition to supporting the early generation of emigrants, The Nippon Foundation today also provides support for the education and development of the networks for the next generation of the Nikkei communities.
* Nikkei is a term that broadly refers to Japanese who emigrated from Japan to other countries to settle there permanently, and their descendants.
Together with Nikkei Communities Scholarship Program Cultivates Young Nikkei What We Are Scholars visiting The Nippon Zaidan Building for the first time since the pandemic outbreak Developing specialist knowledge and cultivating leaders for next generation of Nikkei society through training and social contribution activities while studying in Japan The Nippon Foundation Nikkei Scholarship, administered by the Association of Nikkei & Japanese Abroad, has supported 148 young Nikkei from 11 countries (as of September 2022) from Latin America and Asia.
The scholarship program has three unique features: (1) A wide range of choices for the institusion and subject; (2) A robust program that includes training opportunities; and (3) A network of other scholars after completing the program.
Scholarship Program Cultivates Young Nikkei 2023.01.30 Ceremony Held to Transfer Stage from Nippon Bunraku Project News At the presentation ceremony (left to right): Nippon Bunraku Director Norihiko Yokoh, The Nippon Foundation Chairman Yohei Sasakawa, Hachioji Mayor Takashi Ishimori, House of Representatives member Koichi Hagiuda A ceremony was held at The Nippon Zaidan Building on January 17 to present the portable wooden stage used in the Nippon Bunraku project to the city of Hachioji in western Tokyo.
Ceremony Held to Transfer Stage from Nippon Bunraku Project 2023.01.20 Urasando Public Toilet (Marc Newson, Creator) Opens News External view of Urasando public toilet (Photograph by Satoshi Nagare) The Nippon Foundation’s THE TOKYO TOILET project is recreating public toilets in 17 locations in Shibuya, Tokyo, to make them accessible to everyone. The 14th facility, in Urasando Park (4-28-1 Sendagaya, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo; Marc Newson, creator) opened to the public on January 20.
Urasando Public Toilet (Marc Newson, Creator) Opens 2023.01.27 Individual Audience with Pope Francis News Pope Francis (left) and Yohei Sasakawa (right) （Photo by Vatican Media via Vatican Pool/Getty Images） Yohei Sasakawa, The Nippon Foundation Chairman and World Health Organization Goodwill Ambassador for Leprosy Elimination, was received by Pope Francis at the Vatican on the morning of January 26 (local time). Mr. Sasakawa asked for the pope’s cooperation in eliminating both the disease of leprosy and the prejudice and discrimination that accompany it. In response, the pope thanked Mr. Sasakawa for his work as WHO goodwill ambassador and displayed a deep understanding of the situation, noting the need to continue to work to make people understand that leprosy is a curable disease.
Individual Audience with Pope Francis 2023.01.06 Awareness Survey of 18-Year-Olds – Values and Life Design News The 52 nd installment of the Awareness Survey of 18-Year-Olds, launched by The Nippon Foundation in October 2018, was carried out from December 2-5, 2022, on the subject of “Values and Life Design.” The survey of 1,000 respondents in Japan aged 17 to 19 (i.e., approaching or just having reached legal adulthood) was intended to examine young people’s values and thinking regarding marriage and partnership, and child-rearing.
While more than 40% of male and female respondents replied “Yes” to the question, “Do you want to get married in the future,” only roughly 20% of men and roughly 10% of women replied “Definitely yes” when asked, “Do you believe you actually will get married in the future.” In addition, more than 70% approved of common-law marriages, the use of separate surnames by husbands and wives, and partnership oath systems for same-sex couples.
With regard to Japan’s aging population and declining birthrate, more than 70% of both men and women view the situation with a sense of crisis, while roughly 80% replied that the government’s response is “insufficient” and showed a clear desire for economic support including tuition-free education.
Awareness Survey of 18-Year-Olds – Values and Life Design 2023.01.06 Digital Transformation Fund Established News Left to right: Former Minister for Digital Transformation Takuya Hirai, The Nippon Foundation Chairman Yohei Sasakawa, Google Japan President Shinji Okuyama The Nippon Foundation held a symposium on December 5 to mark the launch of the Digital Transformation Fund, established with a US$3 million donation from Google.org, the philanthropic arm of Google LLC, to use the power of digital transformation to invigorate the social sector.
Digital Transformation Fund Established Follow us Who We Are Mission Chairman's Message Fields of Activity Organization Foundation History Location Our Partners Finances Brochure (PDF / 5MB) What we do Project Scholarships and Fellowships News Contact Use of this Website Privacy Policy Website Accessibility Policy Sitemap Copyright © The Nippon Foundation
