Featured Insights and Perspectives | BCG
2023
https://www.bcgperspectives.com/content/articles/lean-manufacturing-innovation-industries-economies-leading-robotics-revolution

Log in Log error View Profile Industries Industries Aerospace and Defense Automotive Industry Consumer Products Industry Education Energy Financial Institutions Health Care Industry Industrial Goods Insurance Industry Principal Investors and Private Equity Public Sector Retail Industry Technology, Media, and Telecommunications Transportation and Logistics Travel and Tourism Capabilities Capabilities Artificial Intelligence Business and Organizational Purpose Business Resilience Business Transformation Climate Change and Sustainability Corporate Finance and Strategy Cost Management Customer Insights Digital, Technology, and Data Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Innovation Strategy and Delivery International Business Manufacturing Marketing and Sales M&A, Transactions, and PMI Operations Organization Strategy People Strategy Pricing and Revenue Management Risk Management and Compliance Social Impact Zero-Based Budgeting BCG X Featured Insights BCG Henderson Institute Careers Alumni About About About Overview Our People and Culture Corporate Newsroom Our Leadership Our Impact and Commitments Our History Offices Featured Content Cost Management Implement customized, industry-specific initiatives to revitalize performance and enhance value.
Artificial Intelligence AI can deliver significant business impact, but companies can maximize value with an end-to-end approach.
Build for the Future BCG’s research reveals six key success factors and the steps companies need to take today.
Contact Us © 2023 Boston Consulting Group Privacy Terms of Use Subscribe Site Search Search Featured Insights and Perspectives from BCG The latest insights, ideas, and perspectives from BCG.
Explore a cross-section of up-to-date content on the trends shaping the future of business and society.
Artificial Intelligence Build for the Future Business Resilience Climate Change and Sustainability Artificial Intelligence Generative AI Responsible AI Business Resilience Business Transformation Change Management Business Turnaround Restructuring Business and Organizational Purpose Climate Change and Sustainability Sustainable Finance and Investing Climate Risk, Adaptation, and Resilience Decarbonization Sustainability Strategy and Transformation Alternative Proteins Sustainable Operations Nature-Based Solutions Corporate Finance and Strategy Business Strategy Corporate Strategy Value Creation Strategy and Shareholder Activism Defense Strategic Planning Finance Function Excellence Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Family Business Cost Management Customer Insights Customer Demand Customer Journey Customer Experience Customer Data in Global Markets Customer Data in Emerging Markets Digital, Technology, and Data Digital Transformation Data and Analytics Agile at Scale Tech Function Data and Digital Platform Agile Emerging Technologies Cybersecurity and Digital Risk Digital Ecosystems Deep Tech Digital Strategy Digital Maturity Internet of Things Quantum Computing Blockchain Metaverse Services Build-Operate-Transfer Augmented and Virtual Reality Digital Products DevOps Cloud Computing Synthetic Biology Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Gender Equality Racial Equity Measuring Diversity and Inclusion Supplier Diversity Inclusive Product Design Innovation Strategy and Delivery Business Model Innovation Product Innovation and Engineering Corporate Venturing International Business Emerging Markets International Trade Go-to-Market Strategy Foreign Direct Investment M&A, Transactions, and PMI Mergers and Acquisitions Joint Ventures Post-Merger Integration Divestitures Carve-Out IPO Due Diligence Strategic Alliances Vendor Due Diligence Manufacturing Industry 4.0 Marketing and Sales Sales Channel Strategy Marketing Function Excellence Personalization Digital Marketing CMO Agenda Digital Sales E-Commerce Operations Supply Chain Management Procurement Service Operations Digital Supply Chain Operational Excellence Digital Support Functions and Shared Services Capital Project Management Organization Strategy Organizational Culture Organization Design Smart Simplicity People Strategy Leadership Development Digital HR Talent Development Learning Programs Future of Work Executive Coaching Pricing and Revenue Management B2C Pricing B2B Pricing Revenue Growth Management Risk Management and Compliance Compliance and Crisis Management Balance Sheet Management Commodity Risk Management Credit Risk Management Social Impact Food Systems and Food Security Humanitarian Response Zero-Based Budgeting Aerospace and Defense Automotive Industry Consumer Products Industry Fast-Moving Consumer Goods Education Higher Education K–12 Education Energy Power and Utilities Oil and Gas Energy Transition Renewables and Low-Carbon Solutions Financial Institutions Retail Banking Wholesale Banking Wealth Management Payments and Transaction Banking Asset Management Health Care Industry Biopharma Health Care Payers, Providers, Systems & Services Medical Devices and Technology Global Health Value-Based Health Care Oncology Solutions Industrial Goods Building Materials Industry Metals and Mining Industry Agribusiness Industry Machinery and Industrial Automation Chemicals Real Estate Forest Products, Paper, and Packaging Insurance Industry Life Insurance Reinsurance Property and Casualty Insurance Insurtech Bancassurance Principal Investors and Private Equity Fund Strategy and Operations ESG in Private Equity Portfolio Acceleration Tech Capital Public Sector Economic Development Infrastructure Cities of the Future Digital Government Mobility Defense and Security Space Sector Retail Industry Luxury Goods Fashion Industry Technology, Media, and Telecommunications Technology Industry Telecommunications Industry Media and Entertainment Industry Semiconductors Growth Tech 5G Technology Future of Television Transportation and Logistics Logistics Shipping Industry Rail Industry Postal and Parcel Industry Travel and Tourism Airline Industry US Public Sector and Government Most Recent Insights Interview Solving the Pricing Puzzle in Inflationary Times BCG’s Jean-Manuel Izaret reframes inflation as a strategic challenge rather than a numerical one—and discusses how pricing games can help business leaders respond decisively.
Report Value Creation in Chemicals 2023: Facing Unprecedented Pressures In our most recent report, TSR fell dramatically across the industry, rising only in emerging economies and a few product categories. Is this a temporary shock or a new normal? Topics: Climate Change and Sustainability, Business Resilience Report Winning Formulas for E-Commerce Growth E-commerce dynamics are changing. Our global survey reveals the approaches differentiating retail and CPG winners and laggards in today’s increasingly competitive environment.
Topics: Artificial Intelligence Article The Path to Generative AI Value Begins with a Workforce Diagnostic Generative AI presents both benefits and challenges to organizations. BCG’s Bionic Workforce Diagnostic helps companies define a clear path to successfully implement this transformative technology.
Topics: Artificial Intelligence, Digital Transformation It appears your browser does not support JavaScript or you have it disabled. BCG.com will work better for you if you enable JavaScript or switch to a JavaScript supported browser.
video Fintech in LATAM: State of the Industry Julián Herman, Managing Director and Partner, explains the factors that have driven the evolution of Fintech in the country in recent years.
Perspective ASPIRE to AI Leadership: A National Strategy Blueprint How can governments find their strategic foothold in the AI race? BCG has developed the “ASPIRE” framework as a blueprint for value-based national AI strategies.
Article Bringing ESG Accountability to Global Supply Chains By adhering to a simple six-step process, business can systematically manage ESG risks in global supply chains. Doing so will also embed ESG into the heart of operating models.
Topics: Climate Change and Sustainability It appears your browser does not support JavaScript or you have it disabled. BCG.com will work better for you if you enable JavaScript or switch to a JavaScript supported browser.
video Mining Faces Significant Challenges Gustavo Nieponice, Managing Director and Senior Partner, discusses how mining companies in Chile must address future challenges and adopt a sustainable business model.
Featured Collections Cost Management BCG’s cost advantage approach resets costs within a framework that is customized, precise, and thorough.
Build for the Future BCG’s research reveals six key success factors and the steps companies need to take to drive innovation, gain competitive advantage, and build for the future.
Artificial Intelligence Scaling artificial intelligence can create a massive competitive advantage. Learn how our AI-driven initiatives have helped clients extract value.
Climate Change and Sustainability The time for global climate action is now. BCG helps clients accelerate their climate and sustainability journey and seize new opportunities to build competitive advantage.
Game Changer: The New Strategic Pricing Book BCG's new book Game Changer: How Strategic Pricing Shapes Businesses, Markets, and Society explores how we can look at pricing decisions in a new light.
BCG Reading List 2023 The BCG Reading List is back. Dig into the books that have shaped how BCGers look at their work and their world.
Business Resilience Leaders face an uncertain landscape. The impact of each decision feels impossible to predict, which is why they need strategies that are proactive, resilient, and competitive. No matter their starting point, BCG can help.
Podcasts by BCG Explore BCG ’ s podcast library where we share conversations and discussions with experts and global leaders from different industries and capabilities.
BCG Executive Perspectives BCG Executive Perspectives offer insights on global topics that matter most to leaders in the public and private sectors. Explore these topics and read the latest thinking from BCG's experts.
Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging in the Workplace Building an organization that prioritizes diversity, inclusion, and belonging in the workplace isn’t just the right thing to do—it’s also critical to employee retention.
TED Talk Collection Combining the best of TED with the best of BCG, we partner to deliver the latest insights and ideas shaping business and society.
protected by reCaptcha Featured Insights: BCG’s most inspiring thought leadership on issues shaping the future of business and society.
Subscribed Follow Us Global | EN Global | EN Japan | JA © 2023 Boston Consulting Group Careers Contact Subscribe Alumni About Offices Privacy Policy Terms of Use Sitemap Responsible Disclosure Boston Consulting Group is an Equal Opportunity Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, age, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity / expression, national origin, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected under federal, state or local law, where applicable, and those with criminal histories will be considered in a manner consistent with applicable state and local laws.
Pursuant to Transparency in Coverage final rules (85 FR 72158) set forth in the United States by The Departments of the Treasury, Labor, and Health and Human Services click here to access required Machine Readable Files or here to access the Federal No Surprises Bill Act Disclosure.
SUBSCRIBE Log in Log error View Profile
