H2O.ai | The fastest, most accurate AI Cloud Platform
2023
https://www.h2o.ai

Return to page Platform Generative AI Enterprise h2oGPT Private, powerful LLM search assistant for internal teams to answer questions from large volumes of documents, websites and workplace content h2oGPT and H2O LLM Create private, offline chatbot applications with open source H2O LLM Studio Platform H2O AI Cloud. State-of-the-Art AI Cloud Platform Make H2O Driverless AI Democratizing AI with Automated Machine Learning H2O-3 Open Source Distributed Machine Learning H2O Document AI Extracting Data with Intelligence H2O Hydrogen Torch No-Code Deep Learning H2O Wave Open source low-code AI AppDev Framework H2O Label Genie AI-powered Data Labeling Operate H2O AI Feature Store Infuse Your Data with Intelligence H2O MLOps Model Hosting, Monitoring and Deployment Innovate H2O AI AppStore Industry and Use Case AI Apps H2O.ai Wiki Read the H2O.ai wiki for up-to-date resources about artificial intelligence and machine learning.
Democratize AI Our goal is to provide everyone access to AI technologies and empower more people around the world to make a positive impact with the help of AI.
Solutions Industry Solutions Financial Services Government Health Insurance Manufacturing Marketing Retail Telecommunications Use Cases Financial Services From Credit Scoring and Customer Churn to Anti-Money Laundering Government Use Responsible AI in Government Health From Clinical Workflow to Predicting ICU Transfers Insurance From Claims Management to Fraud Mitigation Manufacturing From Predictive Maintenance to Transportation Optimization Marketing From Content Personalization to Lead Scoring Retail From Assortment Optimization to Pricing Optimization Telecommunications From Predictive Customer Support to Predictive Fleet Maintenance View All H2O.ai Hospital Occupancy Simulator Track, predict, and manage COVID-19 related hospital admissions Strategic Transformation Use the H2O AI Cloud to make your company an AI company Customers View All Case Studies FINANCIAL SERVICES Learn how CBA is boosting AI capabilities to generate better customer and community outcomes, at greater pace and scale.
TELECOM Learn how AT&T is transforming into an AI Company with H2O.ai HEALTHCARE Learn how USCF Health is applying H2O Document AI to automate workflows in healthcare ENERGY Learn how AES is transforming its energy business with AI and H2O.ai FINANCIAL INDUSTRIES Learn now IFFCO-Tokio uses the H2O AI Cloud to save over $1M annually by transforming their fraud prediction processes MARKETING Learn how Epsilon is increasing its customers' marketing ROI with H2O.ai Partners Partners Find a Partner Become a Partner Powered by H2O.ai Partner University Resources Resources Documentation Resources Archive Wiki Customer Support Portal What is an AI Cloud? Blog Open Source Downloads h2oGPT and H2O LLM H2O-3 H2O AutoML H2O Wave Sparkling Water Make with H2O On Demand Watch us as we explore the latest in data science techniques, technologies, and successful use cases on demand.
Support Get help and technology from the experts in H2O and access to Enterprise Team Events Events Events Webinar H2O Open Source GenAI World Conference H2O World Make with H2O H2O.ai Wiki Read the H2O.ai wiki for up-to-date resources about artificial intelligence and machine learning.
Responsible AI Learn the best practices for building responsible AI models and applications Company Company About Us Team Democratize AI AI4Conservation AI4Good Careers Contact Us News Press Releases Awards What is an AI Cloud? A high-scale elastic environment for the AI lifecycle 2023 Gartner® Magic Quadrant™ H2O.ai is recognized as a Visionary in 2023 Gartner® Magic Quadrant™ for Cloud AI Developer Services Democratizing Generative AI Own your models: generative and predictive. We bring both super powers together with h2oGPT.
Try h2oGPT Free! Access on Github November 7th Registration Is Now Open. Limited Seats.
Join Us Leverage LLMs to Analyze Your Documents Chat privately with your documents Extract insights from large volumes of documents Automate data labeling and processing for large volumes of unstructured data Pay Stub 1 Pay Stub 2 Pay Stub 3 Extracts information from blurry documents, images, multicolored photos and even handwriting.
View Demo Build your own Document AI Pipelines Document AI H2O.ai is named a Visionary in the 2023 Gartner® Magic Quadrant™ Download the report to learn why H2O has been recognized as a Visionary in the 2023 Gartner® Magic Quadrant™ for Cloud AI Developer Services.
20,000 global organizations use H2O.ai Create your own large language models, build enterprise-level chatbots, and transform unstructured data with the LLM Studio Suite h2oGPT empowers companies to create custom GPTs, while H2O LLM Studio provides a no-code ﬁne-tuning framework for state-of-the-art large language models.
Curate H2O LLM Data Studio Prep H2O LLM Data Studio Fine Tune H2O LLM Studio Evaluate H2O LLM Eval Studio Sketch It H2O LLM App Studio Convert your unstructured data (documents, audio, files) to Q:A pairs for LLM fine-tuning Prepare and clean your data for LLM fine-tuning and other downstream tasks Fine-tune state of the art large language models using LLM Studio, a no-code GUI framework Get a custom leader board comparing high-performing LLMs and choose the best model for your specific task Create LLM-powered AI applications as fast as you can sketch it using LLM App Studio! Read the Blog View Demo Label your data and train your models crazy fast Build no-code deep learning models for image, video and text Detect and track sports teams' players and recognize which player is currently possessing the ball.
Nobody likes to label data.
Let AI do it for you.
H2O Label Genie applies AI, such as zero-shot models, to rapidly label your datasets for annotation tasks in computer vision (CV), natural language processing (NLP), and audio.
World's best transformer engine for your video, audio and NLP models.
Hydrogen Torch lets you train your own state-of-the-art deep learning models fast and with no coding involved.
H2O Hydrogen Torch Hydrogen Torch Use Case Catalog H2O Driverless AI is an award-winning automatic machine learning (AutoML) platform Automate feature engineering, model building, visualization and interpretability.
Powered by award winning AutoML and no-code deep learning engines End-to-end fully managed data science and ML platform that operates across clouds or in your on-premise environments.
Makers Gonna Make There are 403 Kaggle Grandmasters in the world. 25 of them work at H2O.ai. Our Makers leverage their experience in solving real world business problems in Kaggle competitions to develop enterprise scale products designed with product market fit from the start.
Philipp Singer Parul Pandey Mark Landry Why H2O.ai About Us Team News Careers Customers Contact Us Request Live Demo On-Demand Demos Products H2O AI Cloud H2O-3 H2O Driverless AI H2O Feature Store H2O Document AI H2O Wave Sparkling Water Managed Cloud Status Dashboard Resources H2O AI Cloud Datasheet Use Cases Resources Archive Documentation Downloads Events H2O.ai Brand Kit Security Bulletins Legal Insights What is an AI Cloud? Strategic Transformation Democratizing AI Responsible AI AI Governance Be an AI Company AI 4 Good Subscribe Get the latest products updates, community events and other news.
Copyright © 2023 H2O.ai. All rights reserved Privacy Policy Cookie Preferences
