9 Best Cheap Laptops (2023): Our Picks for $700 or Less | WIRED
2023
https://www.wired.com/gallery/best-cheap-laptops

Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Best Pumpkin Carving Kits How to Use Dall-E 3 in ChatGPT Best Steam Deck Accessories Beginner Birding Gear How to Use Your Phone Addiction for Good Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Scott Gilbertson Gear The Best Cheap Laptops We’ve Tested Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Best Overall $699 at Walmart Great Value Laptop $598 at Amazon (14 Inch, 5000 Series) Best 15-Inch Laptop $449 at Walmart Best 13-Inch Laptop $700 at Amazon Computers have put people on the moon and sent cute robots to Mars. You'd think somewhere in the miraculous technological utopia of our age, we'd also be able to get a decent laptop without spending a fortune. All I want is something portable enough that it won't give me back strain from toting it around all day, and powerful enough to get basic work done. A light, fast-enough laptop for under $700—is that so much to ask? Fortunately, it's possible, but there are trade-offs. You can't edit videos or play hardcore games on them, and the displays won't be as sharp as on pricier models.
We've tested tons of cheap laptops, and for everyday tasks these will do everything you ask of them—and leave some money in your bank account. Keep an eye on the operating system; many of these still come with Windows 10, but some offer a free upgrade to Windows 11.
Be sure to check out our other computing guides , including the Best Laptops , Best Touchscreen Laptops , Best Budget Gaming Laptops , Best Gaming Laptops , and Best MacBooks.
 Our How to Choose the Right Laptop guide can also help.
Updated August 2023: We've removed the Lenovo Duet Windows version, which appears to be discontinued, and updated prices throughout.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get WIRED for just $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com , full Gear coverage, and subscriber-only newsletters. Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Photograph: Asus Best Overall Asus Zenbook 14 (2023) Asus' Zenbook 14 offers a combination of good performance, great battery life, and an OLED display—all for $700. Only the lowest-specced model makes our price cutoff, but for that price you get an AMD Ryzen 5 7530U CPU, with 8 GB of RAM and a 256-GB SSD. That may not sound like much, but we were impressed with the performance, especially given the price tag. Graphics and gaming aren’t entirely workable, with rather pitiful frame rates throughout, but battery life is outstanding, clocking in at 12.5 hours (measured looping a YouTube video at full brightness).
This is a small, portable machine too (3.1 pounds and 19 mm thick), though it manages to pack in plenty of ports despite the slim form. There are two USB-C ports (one of which is needed for charging), one full-size USB 3.2 port, a full-size HDMI output, and a microSD card reader. The keyboard has small arrow keys but is otherwise very nice to type on. If you have the extra cash, you can bump the specs a bit to get the model with 16 GB RAM and a 512-GB SSD for $869.
$699 at Walmart Photograph: Lenovo Great Value Laptop Lenovo IdeaPad Flex 5 Our former top pick, Lenovo's AMD-based IdeaPad 5, which comes with a Ryzen 5 processor, is still a great budget laptop. You get plenty of power, a nice 14-inch IPS display, 16 GB of RAM, and a 256-GB SSD. The 360-degree hinge converts it to tablet mode or stand mode for watching movies. To take full advantage of the 2-in-1 design, be sure to grab the digital pen ($40) , although there's no place to stow it. The screen could also be brighter. The processors here are a generation behind the Zenbook above, and the screen isn't nearly as nice. Unfortunately, the newer IdeaPad 5 is more expensive.
$598 at Amazon (14 Inch, 5000 Series) $850 at Amazon (16 Inch, 7000 Series) Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers Photograph: Acer Best 15-Inch Laptop Acer Aspire 3 (12th-Gen Intel, 2022) The Acer Aspire 3 offers the best value among all the 15-inch laptops I've tested. You should get the model with an Intel Core i5 (or AMD 5000 series chip), integrated graphics, 8 GB of RAM, and a 15.6-inch IPS display (1,920 x 1,080 pixels). It's big, and the display is not the sharpest, but it won't strain your eyes. There are ports galore (Ethernet, USB, USB-C, HDMI, headphone jack), and it's powerful enough for most everyday tasks. The keyboard is decent, and at 4 pounds, this machine is one of the lighter budget 15-inch laptops around. It's a shame the speakers don't get very loud.
$449 at Walmart Photograph: Microsoft Best 13-Inch Laptop Microsoft Surface Laptop Go 2 Microsoft’s updated Surface Laptop Go 2 ( 8/10 WIRED Recommends ) is a great student pick and a good cheap alternative to the MacBook. Our reviewer said it's “an absolute joy to use.” The keyboard is one of the best for getting your essays typed up, and the 11th-generation Intel chip, while not the latest, is plenty capable for most people. If you can afford it, spring for the model with 8 GB of RAM. Unfortunately, battery life is not great; we managed seven hours on average.
$700 at Amazon $1,000 at Microsoft (256 GB) Photograph: Acer Most Powerful Acer Swift 3 (2021) We loved Acer's 2021 version of the Swift 3, but it was over $700 at launch. Now that it's more affordable, this notebook is a better buy. It wraps a powerful 11th-gen Intel Core i7 chip, 8 GB of RAM, and a 256-GB SSD in a thin, no-nonsense design with a 1,920 x 1,080-pixel IPS LCD display. (IPS is a little nicer than some types of LCD.) The Swift 3 scored well for battery life in our video-based battery drain test, and it boasts four USB ports, including one USB-C port. I've also used the Intel i5 model, which gets even better battery life, but with a noticeable loss of computing power.
$448 at Amazon $550 at Walmart Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers Photograph: Lenovo Best for Chromebook Lovers Lenovo Flex 5i Chromebook This Chromebook is very similar in design to the Flex 5 above. The base model starts with an 11th-gen Core i3 processor instead of a Celeron chip like most budget Chromebooks. It's plenty speedy for browsing the web and watching videos, and the 13-inch IPS display has a nice antiglare finish, which is good because the main weakness of this machine is the fact that its 250-nit brightness is just barely bright enough to use outdoors. The latest version of Chrome OS is well-optimized to work in all three two-in-one modes, and the Flex 5i is compatible with Lenovo's USI stylus ( sold separately, $40 ). It also comes with a 64 GB microSD card.
$402 at Amazon Photograph: Apple Best Cheap Tablet Apple iPad Air (2022, 5th Gen) Do you really need a cheap laptop? Could you get by with a tablet? The 2022 Apple iPad Air ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ) will be the perfect laptop replacement for some people. If you want great battery life and something that doubles as a way to browse the web from the couch, watch movies in bed, and still get a bit of work done during the day, the iPad Air fits the bill. If you don't want to spend that much on the Air, the base model iPad ($329) is even cheaper, or you can go with the more modern-looking, brand-new 10th-generation iPad ($449).
The rub lies in getting work done. If you're mostly working with word-processing documents, web-based tools, and other tasks the iPad is good at, it works great. Apple has also made strides in improving multitasking in iPadOS 16.
 But if your work involves software that doesn't run on the iPad, get a real laptop.
$559 at Amazon $599 at Apple $600 at Target Photograph: Microsoft Best Cheap Windows Tablet Microsoft Surface Go 3 The Surface Go 3 gives you most, though not all, of the power of Windows in a very lightweight, portable form. It makes a fine media machine when you're not working. There's a lot here to love: It's fanless, the 10.5-inch display is sharp and bright, a microSD card slot means you can add extra storage space, and the cover is a really lovely little keyboard.
Problems? The battery life is worse than in its predecessor. Microsoft also gets you in the details: The nice keyboard cover is still sold separately for a whopping $99.
$630 at Amazon (Core i3) $630 at Microsoft (Core i3) $630 at Best Buy (Core i3) Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers Photograph: OnePlus Best Android Tablet OnePlus Pad Android has come a long way in the past year as Google has enticed developers to build more tablet-optimized apps (leading by example too), which has, in turn, spurred interest from manufacturers in creating new tablets. The OnePlus Pad ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ) utilizes all the multitasking improvements in Android and is a compact little tablet that's perfectly capable of work. Just make sure you grab the magnetic keyboard cover during checkout (usually $149, but sometimes OnePlus has a promotion that includes it for free).
For the price, it's a powerful slate with a 144-Hz, 11.61-inch LCD screen. The battery lasts a while, it'll get a decent length of software updates, and the selfie camera sits in the center, so you won't be at a weird angle in your video calls.
$480 at Amazon $480 at OnePlus Photograph: Amazon Best Chromebook Tablet Hybrid Lenovo IdeaPad Duet 5 Chromebook Lenovo's IdeaPad Duet 5 detachable laptop/tablet hybrid Chromebook is a great affordable 2-in-1. The design is fun, and you can use it as a laptop or tablet. The OLED display isn't common on a laptop at this price, and it's wonderful (you get inky blacks and vivid colors). A part of what keeps the price down is that the Duet 5 uses Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 7c Gen 2 ARM chip. It isn't as powerful as Intel Core processors, but it should be enough for running Chrome OS. I do recommend spending the extra for the top-end model, which comes with the more powerful Snapdragon chip. For additional information, check out our Best Chromebooks guide.
$453 at Amazon $499 at Lenovo $499 at Best Buy Photograph: Getty Images How to Find a Good Laptop Laptop Buying Tips If your budget is tight and you want the most bang for your buck, or you just want to keep something out of the landfill, consider the used or refurbished laptop market. I've had great luck buying used laptops on eBay from all sorts of sellers (both pros and regular people).
To score the best deal, make sure you know the market. Do some research to figure out what kind of machine will suit your needs. The easiest to come by, and therefore (usually) the best deals, tend to be the more boring, business-oriented models. I happen to like ThinkPads, which are used by—and then dumped all at once by—large corporations, which means there are lots to choose from, and they're cheap.
Aim for these specs: Try to get a laptop with at least an 11th-generation Intel Core i3 processor, 8 GB of RAM, 128 GB of storage (preferably a solid-state drive), and at least a 13-inch display that's close to FHD (1080p resolution).
Finding used laptops on eBay : Once you know what you want, search for it on eBay. Scroll down and check the option to show only "Sold Listings." Now take the 10 most recent sales, add up the prices, and divide by 10. That's the average price; don't pay more than that. Keep the lowest price in mind—that's the great deal price. Now, uncheck the Sold Listing option. See what's between the lowest price and the average price. Those are the deals you can consider. I suggest watching a few. Don't bid or participate at all. Just watch them until the end and see how high the auctions end up going.
Once you have a feel for the market and what you should be paying, you'll know when you've found a deal. When you find it, wait. Don't bid until the last few minutes of the auction. You don't want other bidders to have a chance to react. Remember that if you miss out on something, it's not the end of the world. There's always something new being listed on eBay.
Senior Writer and Reviewer X Topics Shopping laptops notebooks buying guides Computers PCs Christopher Null Christopher Null Brenda Stolyar Matt Jancer Brenda Stolyar Christopher Null Scott Gilbertson Christopher Null WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart coupon: $10 Off any size order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% off any size order + free delivery with DoorDash promo code Finish Line Coupon Take $10 Off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón
