13 Best Office Chairs (2023): Budget, Luxe, Cushions, Casters, and Mats | WIRED
2023
https://www.wired.com/gallery/best-office-chairs

Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Best Pumpkin Carving Kits How to Use Dall-E 3 in ChatGPT Best Steam Deck Accessories Beginner Birding Gear How to Use Your Phone Addiction for Good Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Julian Chokkattu Gear Team Gear The 13 Best Office Chairs Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Best for Most People $329 at Branch Best Budget Chair $200 at Staples Runner-Up $549 at Branch Best If You Need a Wider Seat $499 at Autonomous You have probably given more thought to the mattress you sleep on than the chair you sit on. That’s fine! Sleep is extremely important.
 But if you spend several hours—more than eight, if you’re like me—at your desk, it’s a good idea to give the humble chair more attention. Finding the best office chair is not just about finding a comfortable seat. The right materials can whisk away body heat, and adjustability options can tailor the chair to your body. We’ve spent the past two years sitting on more than 45 office chairs, and these are our favorites.
Be sure to check out our other buying guides, including the Best Laptop Stands , Best Work-From-Home Gear , Best Mattresses , and the Best Window Air Conditioners.
Updated October 2023: We’ve added the Tempur-Pedic Tempur-Lumbar Support Office Chair.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get WIRED for just $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com , full Gear coverage, and subscriber-only newsletters. Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Photograph: Branch Best for Most People Branch Ergonomic Chair A good chair often means one that offers a variety of adjustments. Branch's Ergonomic Chair fits this criterion. It's surprisingly easy to assemble in minutes (the instructions are great), and there are tons of little tweaks you can make to dial it the fit. You can push the armrest back and forward, up and down; the seat can extend out or be pushed all the way in; you can lock the recline. There's even adjustable lumbar support. The chair does all this while managing to look sleek, without an outlandish price. (There's no headrest, but you can pay to add one.) It doesn't keep my back as upright as I'd like, but the double-woven nylon mesh backrest feels nice to lean against. The seat is made of high-density foam—it's firm yet comfy—and it doesn't trap heat as much as other foam seats I've tried. It's a great chair for a variety of body sizes; my 6'4" self enjoyed sitting on it, as did my 5'1" partner. Fair warning though: Pet hair tends to cling to the upholstery, and I've noticed the fabric on the front end of the seat tends to pill quite quickly.
$329 at Branch $349 at Amazon Photograph: Staples Best Budget Chair Union & Scale FlexFit Hyken Mesh Task Chair The humble Hyken is frequently available for just $160 during big sale events, making it one of the most affordable good chairs out there. It reclines, has a breathable mesh fabric on the back and seat, and it's sturdy. You even get a headrest and lumbar support. After four years of continuous sitting, WIRED reviewers say the Hyken's mesh has compressed a bit, but it's still comfy. However, it may not be the best option if you need a wider seat.
★ Another alternative: If you need a wider seat, then the Giantex Executive Chair ($220) is a fine option. It has a strange setup process I haven't seen before where you slide the backrest into grooves on the seat base. This backrest doesn't go all the way down into said grooves, apparently by design. This is odd, but it didn't cause any issues. The foam padding on the seat and backrest is plush and cushiony, you can make decent adjustments, and you can raise or lower the lumbar support. The reclining mechanism is a bit stiff. Just know that this chair seems to be a clone of the Clatina Mellet , which I haven't tried, and there's another dupe from Giantex's sister company, Costway , for the same price.
$200 at Staples $250 at Amazon $247 at Walmart Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers Gear The Best iPad to Buy (and a Few to Avoid) Brenda Stolyar Photograph: Branch Runner-Up Branch Verve Chair Take everything about the Branch Ergonomic Chair and upgrade it a notch—that's the Branch Verve. It looks more elegant (especially in the lovely Coral color), it keeps my back straighter, it's quite comfy, and it can make nearly the same adjustments with a higher level of polish.
Nearly.
The armrests only go up and down, and they're just about the only fault I have with this chair. I also wouldn't have minded if they were a smidge wider—folks who need a wider seat may want to look elsewhere. Branch claimed it would have upgrades available for this chair down the road, like 3D armrests and a headrest, but it's been more than 12 months and I've yet to see anything. (I am fine without a headrest.) Branch's Ergonomic Chair is excellent for most people, but the Verve is the more refined seat if your budget can stretch.
$549 at Branch $589 at Amazon Photograph: Autonomous Best If You Need a Wider Seat Autonomous ErgoChair Pro If your budget can stretch a little over $500, I think it's worth shelling out for the Branch Verve above. However, if you must have a headrest and you often find yourself wishing for a wider seat, then take a look at the Autonomous ErgoChair Pro. I sat on it for a month with no major problems, except that the box it came in was massive and barely fit through my front door. The levers under the chair also aren't super intuitive—I highly recommend checking out this video from the company when you first set it up to dial in your preferences.
All the standard adjustments are present, from seat depth and lumbar support to fine-tuning the recline. What surprised me more was the ability to tilt the seat so it's angled down—you don't see that in many chairs. The overall build quality has been solid, and I'm even enjoying the headrest when I'm kicking back and watching House during lunch. The only woes? I wish there was a locking mechanism for the arms, as they tend to slide back and forth. And while the foam seat is quite comfy, it can get warm if you're in a toasty room (though the mesh back helps keep things cool).
$499 at Autonomous $550 at Target Photograph: Steelcase Upgrade Pick Steelcase Gesture Steelcase's Gesture is comfortable, no matter how you're sitting. Tuck one leg under the other, cross your legs at the knee, or sling one over the armrest, and you'll be fairly well-supported. The adjustments also have a wide range, so you can precisely tailor the whole package to your body and posture. Unfortunately, it isn't as breathable as other cheaper chairs, and the upholstered fabric hasn't held up as well as other pricey chairs like the Herman Miller Embody (see below). That said, there are several different fabrics you can choose from, and Steelcase also has one of the best warranties around (12 years).
We initially had this chair as an alternative to the Embody, but the Herman Miller chair has exploded in price since we tested it. The Gesture costs much less but comes close in quality.
$1,424 at Amazon $1,415 at Best Buy $1,371 at Steelcase Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers Gear The Best iPad to Buy (and a Few to Avoid) Brenda Stolyar Photograph: Steelcase Best for Airflow Steelcase Karman I sat on Steelcase's Karman for more than three months, and it's my new favorite all-mesh chair, especially since it has a smaller footprint than some of its peers. These types of office chairs are really great for people who run warm or are generally working in hot spaces—maybe you don't want to run the window AC all day. The Karman's Intermix mesh fabric was comfy to sit on—I'm 6'4" but my 5'1" wife also likes it—and it didn't feel abrasive against the skin.
There's not much to adjust here, and that's by design—the company says the chair “responds automatically to your weight.” You can raise or lower the seat and the armrests, lock the recline, and adjust the angle of the armrests, but that's about it. It doesn't have any traditional lumbar support, though you can add it as an upgrade during checkout. I didn't need it. Even after long stretches on the chair, my back felt well-supported. Most importantly, my body never ran too hot.
★ A cheaper alternative: The Nouhaus Ergo3D Ergonomic Office Chair ($370) is another all-mesh chair. The ElastoMesh seat isn't as comfy (it'll feel worse on the skin if you, uh, tend to sit at your desk without pants). It's otherwise quite adjustable and roomy, plus it even comes with two sets of wheels (casters or rollerblades) so you can choose which works best for you and your flooring. If you're in a particularly hot environment, it won't trap heat and will keep your whole body cool for a fraction of the price.
$1,072 at Steelcase $1,247 at Wayfair Photograph: QOR360 Great for Easing Back Pain QOR360 The Ariel You might be wondering why a “chair” for easing back pain is a stool with no backrest. Well, that's because The Ariel 1.0 targets the sitz bones in your pelvis to ensure you're sitting upright. The base of the stool rocks around slightly so your body will continually shift a little throughout the day, but most importantly, it made me want to get up and move. That might sound like a bad thing, but movement is one of the best ways to counter the woes of sitting in a chair all day. If you want to transition from a chair to one of these, you should definitely ease into it and follow the company's instructions. I started by using it for 30 minutes a day because sitting on it for any longer just left me really sore. After a week of gradually increasing the length of time, my back pain started to disappear, and I felt my posture improve whenever I was away from my desk.
The company has since released The Ariel 2.0, which is pricier but has a comfier seat and a little more stability, but I have not tested this model yet. I've written more in-depth about these kinds of active chairs here.
 The consensus, after speaking to experts, is that you're better off getting a normal chair and introducing more movement into your workday, even if you're just standing up to get some water every hour. After testing several active chairs, the Ariel 1.0 was the one that felt most effective, but there's a good chance you don't really need it.
$395 at QOR360 Photograph: Herman Miller For the Aesthetic (and Hassle-Free) Herman Miller Zeph I was prepared to hate the Zeph. Don't get me wrong, it looks wonderful—there are dozens of color customizations, and it looks nothing like many of the chairs in this guide. But you can only raise the seat up or down. That's it. You'll find nothing else to adjust here. Turns out, that's OK! This lack of adjustability is intentional as the Zeph is shaped to mold around your body. I sat on this plastic one-piece seat for a month and didn't experience any of the back pain I sometimes feel from switching to a new chair. It feels supportive for my 6'4" frame (my 5'1" wife likes it too), and it even makes a decent recliner. I strongly suggest you get the seat pad and arms, which add a smidge more comfort, though this will jack the price up to $645.
The seat pad is made of 50 percent recycled polyester yarn and generates zero fabric waste. (It's also easy to remove and clean.) The padding is thin, and while I wouldn't say it's supremely comfortable, I've had no qualms. The Zeph is compact, making it a great option for smaller spaces. I still think most people will prefer having the option to adjust a chair to their liking, but if you don't want to fuss with knobs and levers, this is the chair for you. Oh, and I should mention the excellent 12-year warranty.
$495 at Herman Miller $495 at Design Within Reach Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers Gear The Best iPad to Buy (and a Few to Avoid) Brenda Stolyar Photograph: Humanscale Best for Tight Spaces (and Armless) Humanscale Path Maybe you work in a nook. Maybe you work in a hallway. Maybe you share home office space with one or two others. If space is at a premium in your WFH arrangement, you don't have room for a big, luxurious chair. So get this small, luxurious chair instead. Measuring 20 inches wide and 21 inches deep, the Path is one of our most compact picks (even more than the Zeph). Its minimal design features tiny arms that don't jut out. Even better, the fully configurable chair can be ordered with no arms at all, which makes it more manageable in tight spaces and also lowers the price.
Humanscale is one of the more forward-thinking office furniture companies when it comes to sustainable design. Each Path chair contains almost 22 pounds of recycled materials—mostly plastic bottles and ocean plastics—and the many textile options include an Eco Knit material made of 100 percent post-consumer recycled polyester. The recycled fabric is comfy, cool, and easy to get clean. The chair arrives in a minimal cardboard box with the three chair pieces (legs, seat, and back) wrapped in compostable bags. Like Humanscale's Freedom Headrest (see below), this Path task chair earns high marks for its minimal ecological impact. It's also just a comfortable chair, with Humanscale's ergonomic reclining mechanism on the back and a smoothly supportive cylinder beneath the seat.
$1,340 at Humanscale $1,144 at Humanscale (Armless) Photograph: Herman Miller A Luxury Pick Herman Miller Embody It might take you a week or two (maybe even a month) to get used to the Herman Miller Embody, but it's well worth your patience. This is what I fall back to after testing all other chairs, and it always feels like a breath of fresh air. Its upright positioning supports my back well and eased lingering back pain from years of sitting in a cheap gaming chair. The seat feels rigid at first but eventually becomes surprisingly pillowy, and the armrests stay firmly in place. It does a nice job of whisking heat away from my body, though not as well as all-mesh chairs. It's one of the most adjustable chairs around: You can pull out the seat, change the height and angle of the armrests, and tweak the Backfit adjustment to follow your spine's natural curve.
Did I mention it's pretty? I'd argue this is one of the most eye-catching chairs around, especially with the rib-like design on the back. Not to mention the surprisingly small footprint. I know, I know, it's incredibly spendy—I bought it for roughly $1,465 back in 2020 and the price has skyrocketed since. But what's amazing is that after more than three years in this chair, it feels just as good as new with barely any squeaks. Herman Miller offers a 12-year warranty that covers every part of the Embody, and the chair arrives completely assembled. Pick one of the Medley upholstery choices with the graphite base finish to see the lowest price.
$1,830 at Herman Miller $1,830 at Design Within Reach Photograph: Humanscale Best for Recliners (and Eco-Friendly) Humanscale Freedom Headrest When I leaned back in the Humanscale Freedom Headrest—which we wrote about more than 20 years ago —I felt bliss. Designed by the famed Niels Diffrient, this chair gracefully supports my back like a mother gently laying a baby in a crib. If you tend to recline, this is the chair for you. By design, there aren't as many adjustments you can make compared to other high-end chairs; the idea is that the chair will adapt to your own body. For example, there's no way to lock the chair so it won't recline, but it never reclined when I didn't want it to. You can adjust the lumbar support, seat height, armrest height, and seat depth—I often had to readjust the headrest, as it tends to slide down—but otherwise, this chair pretty much lets you set it and forget it. It even comes fully assembled. There's a 15-year warranty to boot. The armrests are just about the only part I don't like as much—it's easy to adjust them accidentally when you shift in the seat. After more than a year of sitting on it, I've only noticed some pilling at the seat edge of the fabric.
If you don't care for the headrest, there's a version without it.
 And sustainability-wise, this is a net positive product, meaning the company does more good than bad by making one of these chairs. For instance, Humanscale has rainwater capture systems in its manufacturing sites and uses this for all final assembly. The product's environmental rating is certified by the International Living Future Institute , a nonprofit organization.
$1,634 at Humanscale (Customizable) $1,805 at Crate & Barrel Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers Gear The Best iPad to Buy (and a Few to Avoid) Brenda Stolyar Photograph: Herman Miller Buy It Used Herman Miller Aeron There's a reason the classic Aeron is the chair of choice in many offices: It's durable, supportive, and airy. It comes in three sizes—A, B, and C, with C being the largest—and you're able to adjust pretty much everything on the chair to suit your body. That includes the arms, seat depth, and lumbar support. That said, we don't recommend splurging on a brand-new Aeron. There's a very good chance you can find one for significantly less than full price at a local furniture reseller, on eBay, or on Facebook Marketplace. Or you can luck out like WIRED senior editor Michael Calore, who walked away with a free Aeron after a startup in his town closed up shop.
Read our guide on buying used gear on eBay to make sure you don't overpay.
$1,275 at Herman Miller $1,810 at Amazon Buy at Ebay Photograph: Cooler Master Best Gaming Chair Cooler Master Motion 1 Gaming Chair I don't recommend most gaming chairs—that's coming from someone who sat on one for several years. They are quite adjustable, but they're not terribly comfy, breathable, or ergonomic. They also mostly go after a particular racing car aesthetic. For most people, the above chairs will work better. However, the Cooler Master Motion 1 ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ) is different. WIRED contributor Simon Hill says it's quite literally built for gaming—the seat rumbles when you move on bumpy terrain in Forza Horizon 5 , and it'll throw in a few jolts if you crash. You do need to make sure the game you own is supported, but there are more than 100 AAA titles on the roster. It works with a catalog of more than 2,000 movies and TV shows too, in case you want to feel the power behind Batman's blows.
As a chair itself, it's OK. It's decently comfy but lacks the adjustability you might find on a normal office chair. The armrests are fixed, and prolonged sessions might leave you nauseous. But it's unique and worth considering if you love racing games and flight sims.
$2,300 at Cooler Master Photograph: X Chair Honorable Mentions More Great Chairs Not every chair is a winner. Here are a few others we like enough to recommend, but they're not as good as our top picks above.
Tempur-Pedic Tempur-Lumbar Support Office Chair for $352 : I think this is a nice alternative to the Branch Ergonomic Chair, our top pick. The Tempur seat cushion is, perhaps unsurprisingly, wonderfully comfy to sit on for hours at a time. And most chairs that have a thick lumbar cushion end up causing me back pain, but not here—I've had no issues sitting on this chair for a month. The mesh back is nice for airflow too. The arms tend to move around a bit though, and the mechanism to adjust them is not elegant. Installation wasn't too hard, but the instructions weren't as simple as Branch's, and the overall build quality feels cheap.
Knoll Newson Task Chair for $1,195 : This minimalist chair looks best in the graphite and petal colors; it's a bit drab in black and umber. It's nice that I didn't have to fuss with any levers or knobs much—it's comfy out of the box and decently adjustable if you need to make some tweaks—and it feels especially nice when you recline. (The red knob adjusts the tension of the recline, but you need to twist it for five rotations, and I found it hard to turn sometimes.) The Newson didn't give me trouble in the two months I sat in it. I'm just not a huge fan of how the elastomer mesh backrest distorts, depending on how you sit. It feels lumpy. This chair also doesn't let me sit as upright as I'd like, but maybe you're fine with a bit of give. Ultimately, it's the price that pulls it out of our top recommendations, but you do get a 12-year warranty.
X-Chair X2 K-Sport Management Chair for $969 : This used to be our top mesh chair pick but it has been supplanted by the Steelcase Karman. Sitting in the X-Chair feels like lounging in a hammock. Every part of my body feels well supported, and you can adjust nearly everything on the chair. Pull the seat up and push the armrests up, down, and side to side, or angle them in or out. The lumbar support feels like a cushion, and it adjusts as you move in your seat. If you want to rest your head, you can pay extra for the headrest. It has held up extremely well after three years of near-continuous sitting, but I don't like how bulky it is. X-Chair has a number of models to choose from. I tested the X-2 K-Sport with the wide seat, and it fits my 6'4" frame really well, but it was too wide for my partner, who is 5'1". Most people should be fine with the standard X1.
Secretlab Titan Evo 2022 for $549 : If you absolutely must have the gaming chair vibe, then the Secretlab Titan Evo ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ) is classy enough for the home office. It sets itself apart from similarly priced competitors with its durability and flexibility. It’s comfortable for marathon gaming sessions, thanks to the adjustability it offers (particularly the lumbar support). The headrest pillow is magnetic and stays attached to the chair, which is a nice touch. But the firm cold cure foam molds to your body and may not suit everyone. This material also doesn't deal well with heat—it can cause your lower back to heat up.
Ikea Markus Chair for $290 : The Markus is a perfectly fine office chair. It’s not the most comfortable, but it’s far from the worst. The mesh design keeps you cool, and the tall back lets you fully lean into it. It’s rather thin and isn’t obtrusive in a small home office or bedroom. It was annoying to put together (lol, Ikea), and you might need someone to hold up the back of the chair while you properly attach the seat. Unfortunately, if you often sit with at least one leg up or with your legs crossed, the width between the arms will make you uncomfortable.
X-Chair X-Tech Executive Chair for $1,899 : Functionally, the X-Tech is similar to the X-Chair above. In this version, the M-Foam cooling gel seat is indeed wonderful to sit on, though it's not as heat-wicking as the all-mesh X-Chairs. It’s the Brisa Soft Touch material that impresses the most—it’s ridiculously soft. I recommend you stick with the standard armrests instead of the FS 360 armrests, which tend to move about too much. But my biggest gripe with this model is the price. Why on earth does it cost that much? Mavix M7 Chair for $777 : If it looks strangely similar to the X-Chair (see above), that's because both are owned by the same company. WIRED reviewer Louryn Strampe ran into some issues with assembly, but customer service was able to exchange the model without much effort. The M7 has similarly adjustable armrests and seat angles, but you get wheels that lock. The mesh back and wide seat construction keep you cool and comfortable during sweaty League of Legends sessions, and the lumbar support does the job. If you're short, contact customer support while ordering—Mavix offers shorter cylinders so your feet touch the ground.
Herman Miller Vantum Gaming Chair for $795 : Initially, I really liked this chair. I liked how I could keep myself in a super upright position, which made me feel more engaged in what I was doing. The mesh backrest also disperses heat quite well. However, the overall build quality feels cheap and doesn’t scream Herman Miller (nor does the asking price, which has since dropped by $200). The headrest isn't great either—I’ve nearly broken it trying to move it up and down. As I kept sitting, it was the back support that disappointed me the most. You can feel the lumbar support on your lower back, and not in a good way, almost like it’s digging in. At least it didn’t give me back pain.
Hon Ignition 2.0 Office Chair for $399 : This chair is easy to set up and looks great, but it gave me really bad back pain, which is why I originally placed it in our “Avoid” section. I thought it was perhaps the long hours I was working, so I switched back to the Knoll Newson Task chair and my pain quickly began to ease. Sometime later, I gave it a shot again. After a few hours, the pain came back, and switching to another chair dissipated it. Color me confused, because this chair has positive reviews around the web. I then asked a friend who is around 5' 4" to try it for a few weeks, and she has had zero issues. This seems to be the answer. It's possible the Ignition doesn't work for my 6' 4" self and is better suited for smaller folks.
Hon Ignition 2.0 Big and Tall for $675 : I had a much better experience with this Hon chair, which, as the name suggests, is suited for big and tall people like me. It has a reinforced steel frame that can support up to 450 pounds with a wider seat. It's comfy, transfers heat away well, and does a nice job supporting my back. However, it looks incredibly dull in Boring Black. I had a fine experience in the chair, aside from the arms that tend to slide left and right whenever you put some pressure on them. I'm just not sure it's worth the weirdly high price.
Pipersong Meditation Chair for $369 : Have a problem sitting in a traditional chair? If your legs need to be bent and twisted for you to be comfortable, you'll want to check this chair out. It has a 360-degree swiveling footstool that can accommodate pretty much any sitting position you want. I can go from kneeling to cross-legged to one leg up, one leg down. It’s possible to sit regularly too, with the footstool behind you and your feet flat on the floor. It's the only chair I've found that's designed for odd sitting habits. There are no armrests, which I didn’t mind because that’s what makes it possible to sit in many of these positions. The actual stool and chair back could stand to be bigger and taller, respectively. I had to use a pillow to keep my back comfy.
Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers Gear The Best iPad to Buy (and a Few to Avoid) Brenda Stolyar Photograph: Cushionlabs Seat Cushions, Backrests, and Footrests Other Alternatives If you can't upgrade your chair just yet, a cushion or backrest might help. Here are a few we like: CushionLab Seat Cushion for $66 : This memory foam seat is comfortable, and I had no problems sitting on it for hours on end. It's best paired with an adjustable chair, as it adds a decent amount of height to your seat, which might make typing on a keyboard awkward. It does a great job of keeping out bad odors, and you can also wash the cover. Just know that it's almost never sold for its full price of $85, which means it isn't really on “sale.” LoveHome Memory Foam Lumbar Support for $33 : If you slouch in your seat, this comfortable memory foam pillow can help. It keeps your back straight and supported, and as it's affordable, it's a great option to try before shelling out hundreds for a new chair. It's good to use in a car or a wheelchair, too. The cover is washable, and it has two adjustable straps (plus an extension strap) that go around your seat to keep it in the position you need.
Secretlab Premium Footrest for $89 : Ideally, your feet are planted on the ground as you sit, but it's nice to be able to prop them up on something soft every so often. I have been using Secretlab's footrest for more than six months and it's excellent. Not only is the PlushCell memory foam material it's made of soft and cushy for my feet, but it also stays remarkably clean. I have a tiny dog and his hair gets everywhere except the quilted fabric cover. (You can hand wash this cover to get dirt out.) The patterned silicone base does a good job of keeping it in place too.
Photograph: Stealtho Replace Your Casters Stealtho Office Chair Wheels The wheels on the bottom of your chair are among the easiest parts to replace. If your current casters don't roll smoothly or are too loud, it might be worth replacing them instead of buying a whole new chair. I like these from Stealtho, a Ukrainian company. They'll work with nearly every office chair, though the company notes they don't work with Ikea chairs. The soft polyurethane material means these won't scratch or chip hardwood floors, as some plastic casters do, plus it'll feel like you're silently gliding as you roll from your desk to the fridge (don't judge).
Fair warning: Since these are more frictionless than normal casters, they can cause your chair to roll around sometimes, like when you stand up and walk away. Stealtho has locking casters if you're worried about your chair rolling, and they don't cost much more.
$35 at Amazon $39 at Stealtho Photograph: Vitrazza A Glass Chair Mat Vitrazza Rectangle Glass Chair Mat Do you need a mat for your chair? Most likely not. However, casters can scuff up floors, which is why we recommend upgrading them to rollerblade wheels (see above). If you're on a carpet, it can also be hard to move around on the chair. A mat can help with both of these issues. I've been sitting on top of this glass one from Vitrazza for two years and have been pleasantly surprised. (You can totally go for much cheaper mats made from other materials too.) The safety glass is thick and I can't see any notable scratches even after all this time. It holds 1,000 pounds and it doesn't touch my hardwood floor, as you need to affix rubber bumpers to keep them apart. You can choose from a variety of sizes, and Vitrazza sells various shapes too.
$225 at Vitrazza Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers Gear The Best iPad to Buy (and a Few to Avoid) Brenda Stolyar Photograph: Vilno Avoid These Chairs You Can Do Better If you come across these chairs, we recommend you save your cash and go for one of the picks above.
Vilno Nobel Kneeling Chair for $250 : It's a freakin' kneeling chair! It was easy to put all the wood pieces together, and the seat cushion is surprisingly plump. This is what's known as an active chair , meant to keep your body moving and to also help keep your posture straight. It feels effective for the first few hours, but unfortunately, rocking in the chair tends to cause it to move around on the floor, so I frequently had to fix my position. Worse yet, my shins and knees grew fatigued, and I started feeling some pain after a few days. You can't adjust its height, so it needs to be paired with a standing desk so that your palms don't rest on your desk.
Flexispot C7 Office Chair for $370 : It wasn't too difficult to put this chair together, and it comes in a fairly compact box despite its size. However, the lumbar section juts out so much that within two days of sitting on it, I had back pain. You can adjust the seat to mitigate it, but it didn't solve the problem. It's not just me. My 5'1" wife did not enjoy sitting on the C7 either.
Steelcase Series 1 Office Chair for $498 : I wanted to like the Series 1, especially after having such a good experience with the Gesture.
 My biggest issue is with the armrest—the tops slide back and forth and side to side, which could be a good thing, except I managed to pinch my arm every time I moved. There's no way to lock them in place, so while my trunk felt supported, my arms weren't. The seat is also pretty curved, which can feel like you're trapped in one position as you work throughout the day.
FlexiSpot Sit2Go 2-in-1 Fitness Chair for $300 : This seems like a good idea since it lets you get some exercise while sitting at a desk. I felt virtuous pedaling away while checking my email. The problem is it’s just not very comfortable. (I could not sit on it all day.) It also just feels like a cheap low-resistance exercise bike, so you’re getting the worst of both worlds. You also need a standing desk to accommodate it.
Flexispot Soutien Office Chair for $270 : The thick foam padding is very poor at managing heat, so you will feel sweaty in this chair over time. The mesh backrest helps a bit, and it's reasonably plushy and comfortable. It feels unnecessarily large, though, and the lumbar support slides around too easily when you move.
Teknion Around Chair for $824 : I'm still struggling to see why this chair costs as much as it does. It feels incredibly similar to the Poppin Task Chair above, but the casters on the Teknion are even worse. They're annoyingly loud and feel cheap. Also, the box it came in was massive and didn't fit in my doorway.
Photograph: Guido Mieth/Getty Images Tips on Sitting Properly Proper Ergonomics It's not just about finding a chair you like. We've rounded up several tips on how to set up your desk properly here , but here are a few highlights.
Sitting for too long in a day is not good for your health —no matter what chair you use. It increases the risk of type 2 diabetes, stroke, and heart disease.
 The best thing you can do is get up and move every half hour. If you can, a 40-min walk per day, according to a recent study , can make a big difference in countering some effects of a sedentary lifestyle. You probably don't need to bother with an active chair.
 Our recommendation? Try a smartwatch.
 Most have movement reminders that encourage you to stretch your legs. If you're dealing with back pain, your first step is to consult your physician.
Make sure your chair's armrests are adjustable.
Your palms should be elevated over your desk and your wrists should be straight. If the bottom of your palm is resting on the desk or wrist rest, there's a chance you're putting too much pressure on your nerves, which could lead to issues like carpal tunnel syndrome. Talk to your physician if you're feeling any kind of pain. A gaming mouse, often more ergonomic than standard mice, might be helpful ; just make sure to find one that fits your palm size.
When you look forward, your eyes should align with the top of your monitor or laptop.
That might mean making sure you find a chair that can adjust up and down, elevating your laptop with a stand , or raising the height of your monitor. This puts less pressure on your neck and spine—you shouldn't be craning your neck up or down.
Reviews Editor X Topics Shopping buying guides chairs Furniture remote work household Office Parker Hall Julian Chokkattu Jaina Grey Julian Chokkattu Scott Gilbertson Matt Jancer Parker Hall Adrienne So WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart coupon: $10 Off any size order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% off any size order + free delivery with DoorDash promo code Finish Line Coupon Take $10 Off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón
