14 Best Tablets (2023): For Work, Play, Kids, Seniors, and More | WIRED
2023
https://www.wired.com/gallery/the-best-tablets

Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Best Pumpkin Carving Kits How to Use Dall-E 3 in ChatGPT Best Steam Deck Accessories Beginner Birding Gear How to Use Your Phone Addiction for Good Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Julian Chokkattu Gear The Best Tablets for Work and Play Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Best for Most People $270 at Amazon A More Modern iPad $449 at Apple Best Android Tablet $480 at Amazon Best Tablet Under $200 $150 at Amazon (Fire HD 10) The best tablet can be a portable TV screen around the house and a way to get some light work done away from your desk. They're not essential but are nice to have around. With a wealth of apps for drawing, painting, and making music, they’re also a great outlet for creative impulses.
The iPad’s ease of use and best-in-breed software make it the obvious choice for most people, but if you don’t want an iPad, other options exist. Android tablets are making a comeback recently as Google refocused its efforts on improving the tablet experience. Amazon’s Fire tablets are also an affordable way to watch movies and browse the web, as long as you don’t mind their limitations. If you want a tablet that can double as a laptop, an iPad or a Windows 2-in-1 might be your best bet. These are our favorites.
Be sure to check out our other buying guides , including the Best iPads , Best Drawing Apps , Best iPad Accessories , Best Fire Tablets , and Best Touchscreen Laptops.
Updated August 2023: We’ve added the Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 series.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get WIRED for just $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com , full Gear coverage, and subscriber-only newsletters. Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Photograph: Apple Best for Most People Apple iPad (2021, 9th Gen) It's surprisingly hard to find another tablet that performs as smoothly as Apple's iPad. The ninth-generation model ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ) uses the same A13 Bionic chip that powers the iPhone 11 , which outclasses similarly priced slates. Sure, it looks like an iPad from five years ago, with thick borders around the screen and a classic home button (with Touch ID), but maybe that's what you want. It's the only iPad with this design anymore, and the only one that comes with an audio jack.
The best addition to the 2021 model is the 12-megapixel selfie camera with support for Center Stage. The camera will ensure you're always visible in the frame, handy if you're cooking and FaceTiming with Mom. You also get Apple's class-leading ecosystem of tablet-optimized apps, which truly make this a slate capable of entertainment and work. The latter is especially true if you hook up Apple's Smart Keyboard (or a third-party alternative ). It supports the first-gen Apple Pencil too, but this is the only iPad with a larger air gap between the glass and screen. There's a discernible space between your fingertip and the actual pixels, which makes using the iPad for sketching a little less natural than its siblings.
$270 at Amazon $329 at Apple $330 at Target $330 at Best Buy Photograph: Apple A More Modern iPad Apple iPad (2022, 10th Gen) Apple finally introduced a nicer entry-level iPad in 2022. The 10th-gen iPad ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ) mimics the rest of Apple's slates with a uniform, slim bezel around the slightly larger 10.9-inch LCD screen. There's also no home button—instead, the Touch ID fingerprint sensor is embedded into the power button at the top—and no headphone jack. It does have a USB-C port, which means you can use the same cable as your MacBook to recharge it. There's also 5G support on the cellular model. The 12-MP selfie camera now sits at the center when you hold the tablet horizontally—no need to awkwardly look to the side during video calls.
Unfortunately, the price has jumped up, which is why Apple continues to sell the 9th-gen model. There's also only first-gen Apple Pencil support , and the air gap between the screen and glass remains, so it's not the best iPad for sketching. It supports the Magic Keyboard Folio and the Smart Folio case , but we recommend you go with a third-party keyboard to save some cash.
$449 at Apple $400 at Amazon $450 at Target Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers Photograph: OnePlus Best Android Tablet OnePlus Pad If you're eyeing a tablet that can replace your laptop every now and then—one that still works great as an entertainment slate, and is not an iPad—take a look at the OnePlus Pad ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ). It's the first-ever tablet from the phone maker and it runs Android 13 out of the box, so there are a lot of improvements in making the Android experience on a tablet really great. Multitasking is notably efficient here, aided by the company's accessories: a Magnetic Keyboard case and a stylus. It was the first time I felt comfortable working for long stretches of time on an Android tablet. (OnePlus occasionally has a sale bundle that includes the keyboard or stylus with your tablet purchase for free.) The 11.61-inch LCD 144-Hz display is sharp, fluid, and colorful, the battery has excellent standby time and can get through close to a full workday, and performance is pretty smooth. It'll get three years of OS updates and four years of security updates. It's a shame there's no microSD slot, headphone jack, or biometric authentication.
$480 at Amazon $480 at OnePlus Photograph: Amazon Best Tablet Under $200 Amazon Fire HD 10 (2021) Amazon's Fire tablets aren't for everyone. They really push Amazon Prime services and apps, but they're great for leisurely tasks, like playing games and watching movies. There's no Google Play Store (though there's a workaround ), and not every Android app is readily available. Still, for $150, it's hard to beat the 2021 Fire HD 10 ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ), which is our favorite Fire Tablet.
 It has enough power for most tasks, even some light work if you pair it with a Bluetooth keyboard. There's a USB-C port, so you can charge it with the same cable as your laptop or Android phone , and it has hands-free Alexa support, meaning it can double as an Echo Show.
 If you snag the Fire HD 10 Plus model, you get an extra gig of RAM and wireless charging.
Note that Amazon steeply discounts its Fire tablets on Prime Day , Black Friday, and for shopping holidays like back to school season, so try to avoid paying full price.
$150 at Amazon (Fire HD 10) $180 at Amazon (Fire HD 10 Plus) $200 at Amazon (Fire HD 10 Kids) $200 at Amazon (Fire HD 10 Kids Pro) Photograph: Apple Best Upgrade Apple iPad Air (2022, 5th Gen) If you want to do some work on your tablet, get Apple's iPad Air ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends).
 Thanks to the M1 processor, it's the most powerful tablet for the money. You can play demanding games, edit batches of RAW photos, render 3D designs, and so much more. Apple's recent strides in iPadOS make it easier to multitask than ever too. This slate delivers slim bezels around the 10.9-inch screen and USB-C for charging, and it supports the second-generation Apple Pencil ( Amazon ), which magnetically attaches to the top and recharges wirelessly. That also makes this one of the best tablets for sketching, as the laminated display offers a more natural drawing experience. There's no Face ID, but Touch ID is integrated into the power button.
★ The ultimate iPad: The 12.9-inch 2022 iPad Pro ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ) is much more expensive at $1,049 , but it's more feature-rich. The large screen makes it even better for drawing. It has Mini-LED backlighting technology , which outputs a brighter display with better contrast, and improved performance with the M2 chip. You also get a 120-Hz screen refresh rate , two extra speakers, 5G, Face ID, and a lidar sensor, among other perks.
$559 at Amazon $599 at Apple $600 at Target Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers Photograph: Google Best Tablet and Smart Display Combo Google Pixel Tablet Google's Pixel Tablet ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ) is part tablet, part smart display. This 11-inch slate is like a big Pixel phone , with a sharp LCD screen, good speakers, and slick software. It's powerful too, thanks to the Tensor G2 software inside. However, it comes with a hub, so when you're done using it as a tablet, you can magnetically attach it to its hub to automatically start recharging. This hub doubles as a speaker, and since the Pixel Tablet is the first to support Chromecast, you can cast music or shows to it from your phone or laptop and get beefier sound out of the system. When you're not using it, you can have the display show a clock or friends and family from your Google Photos library like a digital picture frame.
The best part is multi-user support. The Pixel Tablet supports up to eight profiles, so every member of the family can switch to their own personalized profile, and it's securely locked via fingerprint. On another note, I highly recommend getting the official Pixel Tablet Case ($79) , as it adds a much-needed kickstand and it doesn't interrupt the hub attachment point. I also tested a Speck case that has a decent kickstand and is a little cheaper.
$499 at Amazon $499 at Target $499 at Best Buy Photograph: Amazon Best Tablet Under $100 Fire HD 8 (2022) The 2022 Fire HD 8 ( 6/10, WIRED Review ) doesn't add much over the 2020 model outside of a slightly faster processor and thinner design. For the money, you get decent performance, a USB-C charging port, stereo sound, and hands-free access to Alexa—all of this in a travel-friendly 8-inch size. The screen isn't as nice as the Fire HD 10, and it can be a little tough to see images and text clearly if you're outside, but this is the best tablet you can get for around $100. There's officially no Google Play Store, but there's a workaround that nets you access to more apps.
Paying the extra $20 for the Fire HD 8 Plus is wise, as you get extra RAM (which helps when you're scrolling the web or juggling multiple apps) and wireless charging, so you can recharge it on almost any charging pad. You can also use an official wireless charging dock , which props up the tablet and turns it into an Echo Show while it's juicing up. Either way, consider picking up Amazon's magnetic cover to hold the tablet steady when you're bingeing TV shows.
★ An alternative: Amazon also refreshed the Fire HD 7 ($60) in 2022 to offer better performance and USB-C connectivity. You only get 16 gigs of storage (though there's a MicroSD card slot), and the screen is still tiny (7 inches), but if that's what you want, it's a fine option.
$100 at Amazon $100 at Target Photograph: Lenovo A Cheaper Android Tablet Lenovo Tab P11 Pro (2nd Gen) Lenovo's Tab P11 Pro (2nd Gen) is all you need if you want a lag-free Android tablet. The MediaTek 1300T processor inside did an excellent job juggling various apps and games, even when spending a few workdays in Lenovo's Productivity Mode, which kicks in when you connect a Bluetooth keyboard. The interface switches to a laptop-like environment with resizable app windows. It's not quite as nice to use as the OnePlus Pad for work though. I tested the version with six gigabytes of RAM—the 4-GB model is cheaper but will likely feel more sluggish. I strongly recommend using Lenovo's Keyboard and kickstand if you plan to get some work done as it connects via pogo pins and doesn't require any power or Bluetooth fiddling (though it's frequently out of stock). You can doodle if you get Lenovo's Precision Pen 3 , and I found it fairly responsive.
The 11-inch OLED (!) display is a nice size to carry around, and the screen is sharp and colorful, joined by a quad-speaker system that sounds robust. There's a microSD card slot to expand the 128 GB of built-in storage if you need it, but there's no headphone jack, so you'll have to listen in with Bluetooth earbuds (or use a dongle ). Other downsides? There's no biometric authentication, the cameras aren't much to write home about, and while I got nearly seven hours on a single charge, this tablet devours battery life in standby mode so turn it off if you're not using it. Lenovo is also promising three years of security updates and two OS updates for this slate, which means since it's running Android 12, it'll get Android 13 this year and Android 14 in 2024. That's better than what the company has promised before, but still not as good as the competition, and it doesn't help that Lenovo is really slow to roll these updates out.
$340 at Walmart $340 at Lenovo Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers Photograph: Amazon Best Kids Tablet Fire HD 8 Kids Edition (2022) When you're giving a tablet to a kid, you want something durable and cheap so that it's unlikely to break and, if does, a replacement won't be too costly. Amazon offers kid-friendly versions of all its Fire tablets, and the Fire HD 8 Kids Edition sits in the sweet spot of having a kid-friendly size and a wallet-friendly price. It's the exact same as the Fire HD 8 above, but the extra money you spend adds a bulky case to protect the tablet and a two-year worry-free damage plan. That means if your kid breaks it, you can return it and Amazon will send you a replacement for free. You also get a year of Amazon's Kids+ service , which provides access to kid-friendly books , movies, games, and apps, all with parental controls. It's $8 per month after the first year ($5 for Prime members).
There's also the larger Fire HD 10 Kids Edition, which comes in two variants: one for kids aged 3 to 7 , and a Kids Pro Edition for kids aged 6 to 12. Both are pricier and might be too big for younger children to comfortably use. Check out our Best Kids Tablets guide for more ideas.
$150 at Amazon Photograph: Samsung Luxe Android Tablets Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 Series Samsung's Tab S9 series ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ) consists of three tablets: the Tab S9 ($800) , Tab S9+ ($1,000) , and Tab S9 Ultra ($1,200).
 They're all insanely expensive, but you get some of the best hardware in Android, from super-bright 120-Hz screens and IP68 water resistance to an included S Pen stylus and flagship performance. Samsung offers some of the longest support outside of Apple, with a promise of four Android OS upgrades and five years of security updates.
These slates are capable at work and play, thanks to multitasking improvements and an improved DeX desktop mode. But I think the Tab S9 is the weakest of the lot in terms of value. You can get a very close experience with tablets like the OnePlus Pad and Pixel Tablet for far less. Instead, if you really like the look of these Samsung tablets, stick with the Tab S9+ and Tab S9 Ultra. There aren't a lot of large-screen Android slates, and these do the job exceptionally well. Just remember that Samsung's Book Cover keyboard attachment is yet another expensive purchase.
$800 at Amazon (S9) $1,000 at Amazon (S9+) $1,200 at Best Buy (S9 Ultra) $799 at Samsung (All) Photograph: Apple Best Portable Tablet Apple iPad Mini (2021, 6th Gen) Want something a little bigger than your phone, but still pocketable and easy to travel with? The 8.3-inch iPad Mini ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ) should be up your alley. You get a compact tablet with a refreshed iPad Pro-like design. It has the latest A15 Bionic processor, the same that powers the iPhone 13 range , and Touch ID embedded inside the power button. It also features Center Stage in the camera, like the aforementioned iPads, and USB-C for charging. It's unbelievably small and cute, and you can attach the second-gen Apple Pencil to it for on-the-go sketching.
$469 at Amazon $499 at Apple $500 at Target $500 at Best Buy Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers Photograph: Microsoft Best Laptop/Tablet Hybrid Microsoft Surface Pro 9 Who says tablets need to run operating systems originally designed for smartphones? Microsoft's Surface line employs Windows, making it a suitable choice for heavy, desktop-grade workflows. The Surface Pro 9 doesn't add much over its predecessor—it has a faster processor—but it remains powerful, with a large 13-inch screen and a 120-Hz refresh rate.
 The best part is the built-in kickstand, which lets you plop it down on almost any surface. It's not as polished as an iPad in tablet mode, but Windows 11 has larger touch targets that make it easier to use. Our main gripe? Battery life is not as great as Microsoft promises.
The Surface Go 3 suffers from similar battery woes, but it's a cheaper option. It's not as powerful, so it's better suited for simpler tasks like writing emails, browsing the web, and watching Netflix.
We recommend the Surface Pro 9 with the Intel Core i5 CPU, 8 GB of RAM, and a 256-GB SSD for most people.
$871 at Amazon $1,100 at Microsoft Photograph: GrandPad Best for Seniors GrandPad If you have a family member that has a hard time with technology and you want to maintain easy contact with them, the GrandPad ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ) is your best bet. It's a yearly subscription, so it's expensive, but you're getting LTE connectivity out of the box, so the device is always connected to the internet—no need to set up Wi-Fi. The slate itself has outdated specs (it's an Acer 8-inch tablet), but there's a large, optimized interface, speakers tuned to help those hard of hearing, ad-free music streaming and radio stations, unlimited photo and video storage, and games like Solitaire.
If the device is ever damaged or lost, the company will send a replacement.
The GrandPad excels at one-to-one video calls, and it's portable, meaning they can take it with them and still receive your calls. It sits on a wireless charging cradle, too, so your loved one won't have to fuss with cables.
$780 at GrandPad (1 Yr Sub.) Buy at Consumer Cellular (1 Yr Sub.) Photograph: Google Get a Folding Phone Instead Google Pixel Fold OK, hear me out. If all you're really after is a slightly larger screen to catch up on shows and movies at bedtime, then instead of getting another device you need to deal with, why not upgrade your phone to a folding smartphone? The whole idea behind these kinds of folding devices is to offer a larger screen than ever before in a smaller package. The Pixel Fold ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ) opens up to be a 7.6-inch slate—not a massive difference from the 8.3-inch iPad Mini! Not all apps take advantage of the larger screen size, but this is something that's improving over time. Best of all, you can easily hop into a split-screen mode to run two apps simultaneously side by side. Read our Best Pixel Phones guide for more.
$1,799 at Amazon $1,799 at Best Buy $1,799 at Target Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers Photograph: Nokia Honorable Mentions Other Good Tablets We test tons of tablets every year. Here are a few others we like, just not as much as our picks above.
Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Series for $700+ : Whether it's the Tab S8 , Tab S8+ , or Tab S8 Ultra , it's always smart to buy last year's flagship tablet when they go on sale. (Make sure you don't pay MSRP!) They're not that different from the new Tab S9 series, except the smallest slate is stuck with an LCD panel here instead of AMOLED, and there is no IP68 water resistance rating. You still get a stylus that magnetically sticks to the back of the tablet, Samsung's DeX mode to get some work done, and long software support.
Nokia T20 Android Tablet for $200 : I nearly gave the Nokia T20 our top Android tablet spot above. It's pretty great. What brought it down was … my time with the Lenovo P11, which performed better and had a nicer screen—all for not much more money. Still, the T20 will run most apps and games, it has a decent 10.3-inch screen that's not too big and not too small, and there's a headphone jack. The speakers and screen are just OK. HMD Global, which makes Nokia hardware, promises two OS upgrades and three years of security updates.
Nokia T10 Android Tablet for $170 : I think the Nokia T20 is the better option, but the T10 is a smaller 8-inch slate if you want something more pocketable. The screen resolution is lackluster, and the performance isn't super snappy, but it's decent enough for reading or catching up on a show before bed. The company promises two OS upgrades and three years of security updates.
TCL Tab Pro 5G Android Tablet for $400 : Unless you really want 5G connectivity and are prepared to sign up for a monthly data-only plan with Verizon, I think Lenovo's P11 Pro (2nd Gen) is the better buy. This TCL has a solid 2K LCD screen, but it's not as contrasty and colorful as our top Android pick. Its speakers are nice, as is performance—it ran all the usual apps just fine. However, the 10-inch screen size isn't large enough to make some apps split into two columns when in a vertical orientation (not the case on the P11 Pro). At least you get a fingerprint scanner.
Samsung Galaxy Tab A7 Android Tablet for $235 : The A7 is a fine Android tablet if you want to stick with Samsung. The Nokia above performs better, but the screen is nicer here, and the speakers sound richer.
Photograph: Amazon Avoid These Tablets Dishonorable Mentions Lenovo Tab Extreme for $950 : This is a really expensive, premium-feeling tablet. It's fantastic … until you start using it. My unit was riddled with bugs (apps kept force-closing) not to mention that Lenovo's Android interface makes some weird design decisions that affected my workflow. Unlike every other new Android tablet, you can't open a second Chrome tab in split-screen mode to have two Chrome tabs side by side. When I took it to an in-person meeting to type up notes, my palm kept touching the trackpad on the keyboard case and moved my cursor around. It was frustrating. It's also weirdly difficult to buy right now. It's just not worth the hassle.
Amazon Fire 11 Max for $230 : If you are OK with a tablet that shoves Amazon content in your face, and nothing else, then the Fire 11 Max is a fine buy. However, Amazon has a Productivity Bundle that adds a keyboard case for $330, and this is where the Max starts losing value. You can just do so much more with many of the tablets above. It's not worth the price.
Photograph: Satechi Great Tablet Accessories Gear for Your Slate Tablets often don't come with kickstands or enough ports, so it's a good idea to snag a few accessories to enhance your experience. These are some of our favorite tablet accessories, many of which you can also find in our Best iPad Accessories guide.
Satechi Aluminum Desktop Stand for $45 : This is my favorite tablet stand, so much so that I've taken it with me on trips. It packs down relatively well, and it is very stable—there's no wobbling around here. You can also adjust the angle quite a bit. It can handle huge sizes too—it worked perfectly with my 12.9-inch iPad Pro.
Twelve South Compass Pro Stand for $60 : This is made for iPads, but I've had no trouble using it for plenty of other tablets. It's more travel-friendly than the Satechi above and fairly stable, but when I lift the tablet off, the back leg tends to change positions. You can angle it pretty low for sketching or keep it upright for watching movies. Unlike the Satechi, it's not a great option for keeping the tablet upright on a mattress.
Twelve South StayGo Mini USB-C Hub for $61 : This works with iPads and other tablets just fine. You can either plug it in and keep it flush with the edge of a slate or use the included cord to keep it extended. You get a USB-C port you can use for pass-through charging, a USB-A, an HDMI, and a headphone jack.
Lamicall Gooseneck Tablet Holder for $27 : I've used this on my bed frame to hold up the Galaxy Tab S7 FE for months. The gooseneck requires a bit of finagling to get to the right position, and if you're constantly tapping the tablet, it will jiggle around. But it's a great hands-free way to watch movies. You can affix the clamp to any surface, like a desk or kitchen counter.
Twelve South HoverBar Duo Mount/Stand for $80 : You can use this as a stand or as an arm mount, and Twelve South makes it really easy to switch between the two. That means you can easily affix your tablet to your bedside arm mount, and then put it on the stand in your home office in the morning. Both are sturdy, and the arm mount is decently adjustable. Best of all, it doesn't wiggle around as much as the Lamicall above when you tap the screen.
Keychron K3 Pro Mechanical Bluetooth Keyboard for $100 : If you want to use a third-party Bluetooth keyboard with your tablet, a cheap one ( like this Logitech ) will do the job perfectly. But if you're a mechanical keyboard snob like me, this Keychron is an upgrade that's pretty easy to tote around. You can connect it to multiple devices and switch between them quickly; the keys light up in different, configurable colors; and best of all, it delivers the clickety-clackety experience you want with a mechanical keyboard. It needs to be recharged every three to four days, but you can also use it plugged in.
Anker Nano 3 30-Watt Charging Adapter for $20 : Most tablets charge at around 18 watts, so this 30-watt charger from Anker is more than capable. The plugs fold up, and it's pretty compact. If your tablet does support faster charging, then I recommend Satechi's 108-watt three-port USB-C charger ($75).
 This will let you charge your phone, tablet, and laptop all off the same plug.
Einova Ultra Fast Power Bank for $66 : This power bank is slim enough to store next to a tablet in your bag, and it has enough capacity (20,000 mAh) to recharge an 11-inch tablet twice. You can fast-charge with the USB-C port and use the two USB-A ports to recharge other devices.
Reviews Editor X Topics tablets buying guides Shopping iPad Android Windows Brenda Stolyar Julian Chokkattu Nena Farrell Scott Gilbertson Medea Giordano Medea Giordano Julian Chokkattu Brenda Stolyar WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code Samsung coupon Code for up to 40% Off the store Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Redeem $1000 discount on iPhone 15 Pro and Pro Max - Best Buy coupon VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón
