Quanta Magazine
2023
https://www.quantamagazine.org/computer-science

Physics Mathematics Biology Computer Science Topics Archive Saved articles Login Search What's up in Computer Science Latest Articles The Computing Pioneer Helping AI See Susan D'Agostino Read Later Alexei Efros has spent his career learning how machines see differently from humans. Now he’s helping to bridge the gap.
Thirty Years Later, a Speed Boost for Quantum Factoring Ben Brubaker Read Later Shor’s algorithm will enable future quantum computers to factor large numbers quickly, undermining many online security protocols. Now a researcher has shown how to do it even faster.
The Deep Link Equating Math Proofs and Computer Programs Sheon Han Read Later Mathematical logic and the code of computer programs are, in an exact way, mirror images of each other.
Tiny Language Models Come of Age Ben Brubaker Read Later To better understand how neural networks learn to simulate writing, researchers trained simpler versions on synthetic children’s stories.
Filter by Topics View All Topics algorithms AlphaGo artificial intelligence big data computer science computer security computers COVID-19 cryptography data deep learning differential privacy education engineering games machine learning multimedia natural language processing network science networks neural networks obituary open science phase transitions profiles program obfuscation Quanta Podcast quantum computing quantum cryptography robotics statistical physics statistics Year in Review Follow Quanta Past Month Most Read in Computer Science The Physical Process That Powers a New Type of Generative AI Steve Nadis Read Later Some modern image generators rely on the principles of diffusion to create images. Alternatives based on the process behind the distribution of charged particles may yield even better results.
Machine Learning Aids Classical Modeling of Quantum Systems Lakshmi Chandrasekaran Read Later By using “classical shadows,” ordinary computers can beat quantum computers at the tricky task of understanding quantum behaviors.
Alan Turing and the Power of Negative Thinking Ben Brubaker Read Later Mathematical proofs based on a technique called diagonalization can be relentlessly contrarian, but they help reveal the limits of algorithms.
The AI Tools Making Images Look Better Amos Zeeberg Read Later Researchers have discovered ways around a fundamental trade-off between accuracy and beauty in digital images.
Complexity Theory’s 50-Year Journey to the Limits of Knowledge Ben Brubaker Read Later How hard is it to prove that problems are hard to solve? Meta-complexity theorists have been asking questions like this for decades. A string of recent results has started to deliver answers.
Previous 1 2 3 4...
25 Next Get highlights of the most important news delivered to your email inbox Recent newsletters About Quanta Archive Contact Us Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy "byline\"> Quanta Magazine moderates comments to facilitate an informed, substantive, civil conversation. Abusive, profane, self-promotional, misleading, incoherent or off-topic comments will be rejected. Moderators are staffed during regular business hours (New York time) and can only accept comments written in English.
