Careers - Partnership on AI
2023
https://partnershiponai.org/careers

OUR WORK How We Work Programs Inclusive Research & Design AI & Media Integrity AI, Labor, and the Economy FTA & ABOUT ML Safety-Critical AI Workstreams Public Policy Impact Stories RESOURCES Blog Resource Library EVENTS ABOUT US About Us Mission, Vision, & Values Pillars Tenets Team Funding Press Careers PARTNERS OUR WORK How We Work Programs Inclusive Research & Design AI & Media Integrity AI, Labor, and the Economy FTA & ABOUT ML Safety-Critical AI Workstreams Public Policy Impact Stories RESOURCES Blog Resource Library EVENTS ABOUT US About Us Mission, Vision, & Values Pillars Tenets Team Funding Press Careers PARTNERS CONTACT × SEARCH Work With Us Join us as we help build a future where Artificial Intelligence empowers humanity by contributing to a more just, equitable, and prosperous world.
About Us Partnership on AI is the leading forum addressing the most important and difficult decisions on the future of AI.
We are a non-profit that invites diverse voices into the process of technical governance, design, and deployment of AI technologies.
Our essential Partners work together across industry, academia, and civil society to understand the implications of AI advancements and ensure they benefit society equitably.
Through dialogue, insight, education, and guidance, PAI informs responsible AI solutions and identifies opportunities to address humanity’s pressing challenges.
Where We Work While we have a presence in San Francisco, our team is now fully remote from many places across the US and Canada. We recognize the challenges involved with remote work and PAI provides support for those working at home.
Our Benefits We value supporting our people to grow and thrive by providing ample opportunities for development and growth, in addition to competitive benefits.
Twenty vacation days Three personal reflection days Sick leave and family leave above industry standards High-quality PPO and HMO health insurance plans, many 100% covered by PAI Dental and vision insurance 100% covered by PAI Up to a 7% 401K match, vested immediately FSA & HSA plans, pre-tax commuter benefits (Clipper) Automatic cell phone reimbursement ($75/month) Up to $1,000 in professional development funds annually Regular team lunches Allocated budgets to attend worldwide industry conferences & events In support of a remote work environment we offer monthly mental health days and no meeting days Diversity, Equity, and Belonging PAI is committed to fostering an inclusive work environment for everyone. We embrace and celebrate the unique experiences, perspectives and cultural backgrounds that each employee brings to our workplace, and we reference the SHRM Code of Conduct as our benchmarking standard. PAI aims to create an environment where our employees feel respected, valued and empowered, and to create an inclusive workplace through which our team members are an integral part.
PAI is committed to taking the following actions in support of an inclusive workplace 1 Vision & Mission As an independent body, PAI exists for the benefit of people and society which we define as being equitable.
 We empower diverse voices to participate from ideation through implementation, striving for fairness, equity, and inclusion. Justice and equity is at the heart of PAI’s vision 2 Values “Equity and Inclusion” is the first value on our list for a reason 3 Representation PAI is represented by a diverse makeup of staff, but we continue to focus our efforts on improving representation and recognize that it is only a part of the story. We believe that as a form of accountability, transparency in these efforts is critical. Currently, we are focused on building our pipeline of African American, Hispanic/LatinX, and Indigenious people. We also welcome all other forms of diversity, including LGBTQ+, Veteran, individuals with disabilities, and socioeconomic status 4 Recruiting All open positions at PAI (board, full-time, fellowships, internships and consultants) must include interviews with finalist candidates from underrepresented backgrounds. On an annual basis, PAI will identify critical dimensions of diversity that are underrepresented within the organization, according to census data. Our approach sometimes has the potential to take longer, but we believe this to be a necessary means to staying true to our values.
5 Speaking Engagement Policy Incorporates an extensive Speaker Diversity Policy 6 Results PAI conducts bi-annual employee engagement surveys and focus groups to identify the areas where our organization supports inclusive practices, as well as where there is room for growth OUR WORK RESOURCES EVENTS ABOUT US PARTNERS © 2023 Partnership on AI | All Rights Reserved Transparency and Governance Privacy Policy
