OII | News & Events
2023
https://www.oii.ox.ac.uk/news-events

Research Research Section Home Research Areas Digital Economies Digital Knowledge and Culture Digital Politics and Government Education, Digital Life and Wellbeing Ethics and Philosophy of Information Information Geography and Inequality Information Governance and Security Social Data Science Publications Projects Research Microsites Visitor Programme Study Study Section Home Our Programmes MSc in Social Data Science MSc in Social Science of the Internet DPhil in Social Data Science DPhil in Information, Communication and the Social Sciences Recognised Student Programme Study FAQs Open Days Summer Doctoral Programme SDP Tutors SDP Alumni Gallery People People Section Home OII People Faculty & Research Fellows Research Staff Senior Fellows DPhil Students MSc Students Administration Research Associates Advisory Board Visitors Faculty Associates Former Members of the OII Vacancies Equality, Diversity & Inclusion News & Events News & Events Section Home News Latest Reports Press Coverage Upcoming Events Videos & Event Recordings Follow Us About About Section Home Our History Our Founding Donor Giving to the Oxford Internet Institute The Shirley Scholars Fund Executive Education Information for Alumni Find Us Library Research Research Research Areas Digital Economies Digital Knowledge and Culture Digital Politics and Government Education, Digital Life and Wellbeing Ethics and Philosophy of Information Information Geography and Inequality Information Governance and Security Social Data Science Publications Projects Research Microsites Visitor Programme Study Study Our Programmes MSc in Social Data Science MSc in Social Science of the Internet DPhil in Social Data Science DPhil in Information, Communication and the Social Sciences Recognised Student Programme Study FAQs Open Days Summer Doctoral Programme SDP Tutors SDP Alumni Gallery People People OII People Faculty & Research Fellows Research Staff Senior Fellows DPhil Students MSc Students Administration Research Associates Advisory Board Visitors Faculty Associates Former Members of the OII Vacancies Equality, Diversity & Inclusion News & Events News & Events News Latest Reports Press Coverage Upcoming Events Videos & Event Recordings Follow Us About About Our History Our Founding Donor Giving to the Oxford Internet Institute The Shirley Scholars Fund Executive Education Information for Alumni Find Us Library OII > News & Events OII > News & Events Page Contents Press Contacts Latest Reports Latest press coverage Latest news Latest videos Next Events Press Contacts Journalists looking for comments on stories can contact the OII Press Officer at press@oii.ox.ac.uk , telephone: +44 (0)1865 287237. For out of hours queries, please contact news.office@admin.ox.ac.uk or call 01865 280528.
Latest Reports Automating Democracy: Generative AI, Journalism, and the Future of Democracy By Amy Ross Arguedas and Felix M. Simon Generative AI stands to reshape journalism and society. What will these effects be Can we protect democratic values? This report presents findings from the 'Automating Democracy' project and open questions to be addressed as AI unfolds its effects.
AI, Gender, & Development in Africa: Feminist Policy Considerations By Rutendo Chabikwa This report provides an overview of whether African governments and regional bodies incorporate adequate consideration of gender in their discussions of AI and its potential role in economic development.
Latest press coverage These skills could earn you more money and help futureproof your career Yahoo Finance, 29 October 2023 Workers with AI skills earn up to 40% more than those without them, new research finds.
Has Rishi Sunak given AI tech firms a ‘free pass?’ Experts say industry needs regulation ‘immediately’ after PM said UK won’t ‘rush to regulate’ and we ‘shouldn’t lose sleep over it’ Daily Mail Online, 27 October 2023 Technology experts have today accused Rishi Sunak of giving AI firms a 'free pass' after announcing he won't 'rush to regulate' the industry as he seeks to turn the UK into a major artificial intelligence hub.
Artificial intelligence tools can now monitor and analyze physical performance at work Le Monde, 21 October 2023 Several studies highlight the consequences of the use of generative AI no longer on employment, but on human work itself, reports the sociologist in her column.
1 … Latest news Highlighting our work on Generative AI 27 October 2023 The OII is leading the debate on Artificial Intelligence. Generative AI has been a key area of interest for faculty, researchers and students for many years. This article brings together some of this work to date and highlights forthcoming work.
AI comes out on top: Oxford Study identifies the economic value of specific skills 24 October 2023 Researchers at the Oxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford, and the Center for Social Data Science, University of Copenhagen, find that the economic value of a skill is determined by how well it can be combined with other worker competencies.
The Value of AI Skills: Our Chance to Race with the Machines? 23 October 2023 Should we all learn how to code to prepare for an uncertain future of work? In our recent article, we show that it pays to have skills centred around Artificial Intelligence (AI).
1 … Get an expert comment Are you a journalist looking for an Oxford Internet Institute academic to provide expert comment and/or background briefing on a story? Explore our faculty pages to find an academic who may be able to help.
Next Events 01 Nov Digital Divides? Divergent Effects of Broadband Internet Expansion on Adolescent Educational Outcomes 13:00 -14:00, Seminar room, 1 St Giles With Prof Pablo Gracia The expansion of internet is likely to influence adolescents’ educational outcomes through various mechanisms. Yet, how internet coverage expansion impacts student educational performance remains poorly understood.
08 Nov How older audiences are erased, distorted and misunderstood in social & search, and the ethics of using AI to address representation gaps in advertising 17:00 -18:00, Seminar room, 1 St Giles With Stuart Bowden, and Aleksandra Grabowska Whilst 92% of GenX are on social platforms daily they are the subject of less than 5% of platform research 1 St Giles, Oxford, OX1 3JS, UK +44 (0)1865 287210 General: enquiries@oii.ox.ac.uk Press: press@oii.ox.ac.uk FOLLOW US: INFORMATION FOR: Prospective students Alumni Job seekers Media Policy makers We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website.
You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings.
Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies Google Analytics Privacy Overview This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookies moove_gdrp_popup - a cookie that saves your preferences for cookie settings. Without this cookie, the screen offering you cookie options will appear on every page you visit.
This cookie remains on your computer for 365 days, but you can adjust your preferences at any time by clicking on the "Cookie settings" link in the website footer.
Please note that if you visit the Oxford University website, any cookies you accept there will appear on our site here too, this being a subdomain. To control them, you must change your cookie preferences on the main University website.
Enable or Disable Cookies Google Analytics This website uses Google Tags and Google Analytics to collect anonymised information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping these cookies enabled helps the OII improve our website.
Enabling this option will allow cookies from: Google Analytics - tracking visits to the ox.ac.uk and oii.ox.ac.uk domains These cookies will remain on your website for 365 days, but you can edit your cookie preferences at any time via the "Cookie Settings" button in the website footer.
Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! GDPR Cookie Compliance
