The Big Story | MIT Technology Review
2023
https://www.technologyreview.com/collection/the-big-story

Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts The Big Story Categorized in The Big Story The next pandemic is already here. Covid can teach us how to fight it.
We’ve known the dangers of antimicrobial resistance for years. What if we used what we learned from covid to tackle it? Categorized in The Big Story Uyghurs outside China are traumatized. Now they’re starting to talk about it As loved ones disappear in their homeland, community members in other countries feel helpless and afraid. Telehealth and social media are helping.
Categorized in This company delivers packages faster than Amazon, but workers pay the price South Korean e-commerce giant Coupang uses AI to promise almost-instant delivery. But speed comes with troubling labor issues—including worker deaths.
Categorized in AI is learning how to create itself Humans have struggled to make truly intelligent machines. Maybe we need to let them get on with it themselves.
Categorized in A nonprofit promised to preserve wildlife. Then it made millions claiming it could cut down trees The Massachusetts Audubon Society has managed its land as wildlife habitat for years. Here’s how the carbon credits it sold may have fueled climate change.
Categorized in The climate solution actually adding millions of tons of CO2 into the atmosphere New research shows that California’s climate policy created up to 39 million carbon credits that aren’t achieving real carbon savings. But companies can buy these forest offsets to justify polluting more anyway.
Categorized in The Big Story Could covid lead to a lifetime of autoimmune disease? Evidence is growing that in some people covid infections are producing autoantibodies targeting the body’s organs. If true, it could mean years of lingering sickness and misery for many.
Categorized in Geoffrey Hinton has a hunch about what’s next for AI A decade ago, the artificial-intelligence pioneer transformed the field with a major breakthrough. Now he’s working on a new imaginary system named GLOM.
Categorized in The Big Story A feminist internet would be better for everyone Life online for women is toxic and filled with hate and sexism. Some activists say it’s time to reimagine how the whole thing works.
Categorized in Technology and censorship Netflix v Modi and the battle for Indian cinema’s soul Streaming platforms gave Indian filmmakers newfound freedoms, which are now under threat from Modi's government.
Categorized in How Facebook got addicted to spreading misinformation The company’s AI algorithms gave it an insatiable habit for lies and hate speech. Now the man who built them can't fix the problem.
Categorized in I asked an AI to tell me how beautiful I am Computers are ranking the way people look—and the results are influencing the things we do, the posts we see, and the way we think.
Categorized in Geoengineering A first-of-its-kind geoengineering experiment is about to take its first step Harvard scientists plan to launch a balloon this summer to test the equipment needed for the first geoengineering experiments in the stratosphere.
Categorized in The Big Story: Tech Policy How to fix what the innovation economy broke about America Across the country, small towns have been left behind. Finding a way to turn things around is crucial if American democracy is to be saved.
Categorized in The Big Story: AI audits Auditors are testing hiring algorithms for bias, but there’s no easy fix AI audits may overlook certain types of bias, and they don’t necessarily verify that a hiring tool picks the best candidates for a job.
Categorized in The Big Story: mRNA The next act for messenger RNA could be bigger than covid vaccines New messenger RNA vaccines to fight the coronavirus are based on a technology that could transform medicine. Next up: sickle cell and HIV.
Categorized in The Lunik heist Lunik: Inside the CIA’s audacious plot to steal a Soviet satellite How a team of spies in Mexico got their hands on Russia's space secrets—and tried to change the course of the Cold War.
Categorized in Wildfire modeling What the complex math of fire modeling tells us about the future of California’s forests California’s fires are getting bigger and harder to predict. The only way to tame them may be to remake the landscape itself.
Categorized in The Big Story: Opinion This tool lets you confuse Google’s ad network, and a test shows it works Current privacy laws don’t shield people from the pervasive surveillance of Big Tech. Guerrilla tactics are all we’ve got.
Categorized in The Big Story: Book excerpt Art has been brutalized by tech’s giants. How can it survive? Categorized in “I started crying”: Inside Timnit Gebru’s last days at Google—and what happens next.
Categorized in Gene editing has made pigs immune to a deadly epidemic A large project is underway to disease-proof pigs using CRISPR to change their DNA. Are people next? Categorized in The Big Story: Opinion How our data encodes systematic racism Categorized in Logging in to get kicked out: Inside America’s virtual eviction crisis Categorized in Asia’s biggest climate migration Categorized in AI is wrestling with a replication crisis Tech giants dominate research but the line between real breakthrough and product showcase can be fuzzy. Some scientists have had enough.
Categorized in Censored by China, under attack in America: what’s next for WeChat? Categorized in America’s technological leadership is at stake in this election Whichever man wins, he will have to put a country bruised and battered by the pandemic on a footing to compete with a newly empowered China.
Categorized in It’s time to rethink the legal treatment of robots Categorized in Artificial general intelligence: Are we close, and does it even make sense to try? A machine that could think like a person has been the guiding vision of AI research since the earliest days—and remains its most divisive idea.
Categorized in Winter will make the pandemic worse. Here’s what you need to know.
Categorized in This restaurant duo want a zero-carbon food system. Can it happen? How Anthony Myint and Karen Leibowitz put aside their restaurant’s success to take on a far bigger challenge: rebuilding the entire food system.
Categorized in Suppressing fires has failed. Here’s what California needs to do instead.
Categorized in Why do you feel lonely? Neuroscience is starting to find answers.
Categorized in Evangelicals are looking for answers online. They’re finding QAnon instead.
Categorized in Machines can spot mental health issues—if you hand over your personal data Categorized in “Am I going crazy or am I being stalked?” Inside the disturbing online world of gangstalking Forums where people discuss being “gangstalked” are messy and confusing—and they lead some down a dark path.
Categorized in The US needs a green stimulus—but not right now Categorized in Predictive policing algorithms are racist. They need to be dismantled.
Lack of transparency and biased training data mean these tools are not fit for purpose. If we can’t fix them, we should ditch them.
Categorized in A plan to redesign the internet could make apps that no one controls Categorized in Trump’s freeze on new visas could threaten US dominance in AI Categorized in Coronavirus Here’s how genes from covid-19 survivors could help you Categorized in The two-year fight to stop Amazon from selling face recognition to the police Categorized in A teenager’s guide to building the world’s best pandemic and protest trackers Categorized in Coronavirus Here’s what we have to do to show a coronavirus vaccine works Categorized in Opinion The CEO’s guide to safely reopening the workplace Categorized in Is getting pregnant “medically necessary” right now? Categorized in Coronavirus How to test everyone for the coronavirus Categorized in Coronavirus This is what it will take to get us back outside Categorized in Which Covid-19 drugs work best? Categorized in We’re not going back to normal Social distancing is here to stay for much more than a few weeks. It will upend our way of life, in some ways forever.
Categorized in What is herd immunity and can it stop the coronavirus? Categorized in Lie detectors have always been suspect. AI has made the problem worse.
Categorized in The messy, secretive reality behind OpenAI’s bid to save the world The AI moonshot was founded in the spirit of transparency. This is the inside story of how competitive pressure eroded that idealism.
Categorized in Biologists rush to re-create the China coronavirus from its genetic code Synthetic versions of the deadly virus could help test treatments. But what are the risks when viruses can be synthetized from scratch? Categorized in A new implant for blind people jacks directly into the brain Categorized in Climate change means the US must start building big things again Sorry if it blocks your views.
Categorized in An elegy for cash: the technology we might never replace Categorized in Meet the scientists trying to understand the world’s worst wildfires Categorized in China’s CRISPR babies: Read exclusive excerpts from the unseen original research Categorized in Video game addiction is now being recognized—what happens next? ERIK CARTER Categorized in Ghost ships, crop circles, and soft gold: A GPS mystery in Shanghai C4ADS Categorized in How the world’s biggest gun helped solve a long-standing space mystery Topics Artificial intelligence Biotechnology and health Blockchain Business Climate change and energy Computing Culture Humans and technology Policy Silicon Valley Smart cities Space The Download Follow twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
