OII | People
2023
https://www.oii.ox.ac.uk/people

Research Research Section Home Research Areas Digital Economies Digital Knowledge and Culture Digital Politics and Government Education, Digital Life and Wellbeing Ethics and Philosophy of Information Information Geography and Inequality Information Governance and Security Social Data Science Publications Projects Research Microsites Visitor Programme Study Study Section Home Our Programmes MSc in Social Data Science MSc in Social Science of the Internet DPhil in Social Data Science DPhil in Information, Communication and the Social Sciences Recognised Student Programme Study FAQs Open Days Summer Doctoral Programme SDP Tutors SDP Alumni Gallery People People Section Home OII People Faculty & Research Fellows Research Staff Senior Fellows DPhil Students MSc Students Administration Research Associates Advisory Board Visitors Faculty Associates Former Members of the OII Vacancies Equality, Diversity & Inclusion News & Events News & Events Section Home News Latest Reports Press Coverage Upcoming Events Videos & Event Recordings Follow Us About About Section Home Our History Our Founding Donor Giving to the Oxford Internet Institute The Shirley Scholars Fund Executive Education Information for Alumni Find Us Library Research Research Research Areas Digital Economies Digital Knowledge and Culture Digital Politics and Government Education, Digital Life and Wellbeing Ethics and Philosophy of Information Information Geography and Inequality Information Governance and Security Social Data Science Publications Projects Research Microsites Visitor Programme Study Study Our Programmes MSc in Social Data Science MSc in Social Science of the Internet DPhil in Social Data Science DPhil in Information, Communication and the Social Sciences Recognised Student Programme Study FAQs Open Days Summer Doctoral Programme SDP Tutors SDP Alumni Gallery People People OII People Faculty & Research Fellows Research Staff Senior Fellows DPhil Students MSc Students Administration Research Associates Advisory Board Visitors Faculty Associates Former Members of the OII Vacancies Equality, Diversity & Inclusion News & Events News & Events News Latest Reports Press Coverage Upcoming Events Videos & Event Recordings Follow Us About About Our History Our Founding Donor Giving to the Oxford Internet Institute The Shirley Scholars Fund Executive Education Information for Alumni Find Us Library OII > People Show: Find a person: Faculty & Research Fellows Professor Victoria Nash Director, Associate Professor, Senior Policy Fellow Victoria Nash is the OII's Director and a Senior Policy Fellow. Her research focuses on the opportunities and risks experienced by children using digital technologies; she also leads OII engagement on Internet regulation and digital policy issues.
Dr Fabian Braesemann Departmental Research Lecturer Dr Fabian Braesemann is a Departmental Research Lecturer in AI & Work at the OII.
Professor Kathryn Eccles Associate Professor, Senior Research Fellow Kathryn Eccles has research interests in the impact of new technologies on Humanities scholarship, and the re-organisation of cultural heritage and higher education in the digital world.
Professor Rebecca Eynon Professor of Education, the Internet and Society Rebecca Eynon's research focuses on learning and the Internet, and the links between digital and social exclusion.
Professor Carl-Benedikt Frey Dieter Schwarz Associate Professor of AI & Work Carl-Benedikt Frey an economist and Associate Professor of AI & Work. He is also a Fellow of Mansfield College and Director of the Future of Work Programme at the Oxford Martin School.
Professor Mark Graham Professor of Internet Geography Mark Graham is an economic geographer. His research focuses on digital labour, the gig economy, and digital inequalities. He is the author, most recently, of The Gig Economy: A Critical Introduction.
Dr Scott A. Hale Associate Professor, Senior Research Fellow Dr Scott A. Hale is an Associate Professor, Senior Research Fellow, and Turing Fellow. He develops and applies computer science techniques to the social sciences focusing on increasing equitable access to quality information.
Professor Ekaterina Hertog Associate Professor in AI and Society Ekaterina Hertog is an Associate Professor of AI and Society at Oxford Internet Institute and Institute for Ethics in AI. She studies how the rising digitalisation is reshaping private lives across the world.
Dr Bernie Hogan Associate Professor, Senior Research Fellow Bernie Hogan examines how to capture, represent and think about social networks, especially personal social networks. His work focuses on the role of design in social media, network capture techniques and theories of relationships.
Professor Philip Howard Professor of Internet Studies Philip N. Howard is a professor of sociology, information, and international affairs. He is Director of the Programme on Democracy and Technology, and is a Professorial Fellow of Balliol College.
Dr Johann Laux British Academy Postdoctoral Fellow Johann Laux works at the intersection of law and the social sciences. His current research is interested in the governance of emerging technologies as well as the design of institutions.
Professor Vili Lehdonvirta Professor of Economic Sociology and Digital Social Research Vili Lehdonvirta examines the politics and socio-economic impacts of digital technologies. He is one of the world's most cited authors on gig work and the platform economy. His current research deals with the geopolitics of digital infrastructures.
Dr Adam Mahdi Director of Graduate Studies, Departmental Research Lecturer Adam Mahdi’s research focuses on digital health and application of machine learning in social sciences. He is the director of the UKRI-funded OxCOVID19 Project and a fellow at Wolfson College, University of Oxford.
Professor Helen Margetts Professor of Society and the Internet Helen Margetts is Professor of Society and the Internet, a political scientist specialising in digital government and politics. She was Director of the OII from 2011-18. She is a Professorial Fellow of Mansfield College.
Professor Viktor Mayer-Schönberger Professor of Internet Governance and Regulation Viktor Mayer-Schönberger is the OII's Professor of Internet Governance and Regulation. His research focuses on the role of information in a networked economy.
Dr Keegan McBride MSc SSI Course Director, Departmental Research Lecturer in AI, Government, and Policy Keegan McBride is a departmental research lecturer in AI, Government, and Policy at the OII. His research creates insight about the state in the digital age by exploring the interactions between the state, society, and technology.
Professor Brent Mittelstadt Director of Research, Associate Professor, Senior Research Fellow Professor Brent Mittelstadt is a data ethicist and philosopher specializing in AI ethics, professional ethics, and technology law and policy. He is the founder/coordinator of the Governance of Emerging Technologies (GET) programme.
Dr Gemma Newlands Departmental Research Lecturer in AI & Work Gemma Newlands is a Departmental Research Lecturer in AI & Work. As an organisational sociologist, her research explores the impact of artificial intelligence on work and organisations.
Professor Andrew Przybylski Professor of Human Behaviour and Technology Professor Przybylski is a psychologist who studies how online social media and video games platforms influence users’ mental health. His research focuses on how data from these platforms can inform regulation, policymaking, and expert advice.
Dr Luc Rocher DPhil Programme Director (SDS), Lecturer Luc investigates privacy harms posed by large-scale collections of human data and deployed AI technologies, identifying gaps in how technology is regulated and risks are documented, and proposing better data sharing models for academic research.
Dr Chris Russell Dieter Schwarz Associate Professor, AI, Government & Policy., Research Associate Chris Russell is the Dieter Schwarz Associate Professor, AI, Government and Policy. Dr Russell’s work lies at the intersection of computer vision and responsible AI.
Professor Ralph Schroeder Senior Research Fellow Ralph Schroeder has interests in shared virtual environments and the sociology of science and technology. His current research is related to digital media and populism, climate change online, AI and social theory, and the internet in China and India.
Dr Fabian Stephany Departmental Research Lecturer Fabian is a Departmental Research Lecturer in AI & Work at the Oxford Internet Institute.
Professor Mariarosaria Taddeo Professor of Digital Ethics and Defence Technologies, DPhil Programme Director (ICSS) Mariarosaria Taddeo is Professor of Digital Ethics and Defence Technologies and Programme Director of the DPhil in Information, Communication and the Social Sciences at the OII.
Professor Greg Taylor Associate Professor, Senior Research Fellow Greg Taylor's research focuses on the economics of competition policy and regulation for digital and technology markets.
Dr Ana Valdivia Lecturer in AI, Government & Policy Ana Valdivia is a critical artificial intelligence scholar. Her research explores how datafication and algorithmic governance shape social, economic and political worlds. Her work focuses on the role of technology in the fields of migration & gender.
Professor Sandra Wachter Professor of Technology and Regulation Professor Sandra Wachter is Professor of Technology and Regulation focusing on law and ethics of AI, Big Data, and robotics as well as Internet regulation at the Oxford Internet Institute at the University of Oxford Dr Joss Wright Senior Research Fellow Joss Wright's research interests lie in information controls, privacy-enhancing technologies, and cyber-enabled crime. His current research focuses on measuring internet censorship, and uncovering the online illegal wildlife trade.
1 St Giles, Oxford, OX1 3JS, UK +44 (0)1865 287210 General: enquiries@oii.ox.ac.uk Press: press@oii.ox.ac.uk FOLLOW US: INFORMATION FOR: Prospective students Alumni Job seekers Media Policy makers We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website.
You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings.
Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies Google Analytics Privacy Overview This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookies moove_gdrp_popup - a cookie that saves your preferences for cookie settings. Without this cookie, the screen offering you cookie options will appear on every page you visit.
This cookie remains on your computer for 365 days, but you can adjust your preferences at any time by clicking on the "Cookie settings" link in the website footer.
Please note that if you visit the Oxford University website, any cookies you accept there will appear on our site here too, this being a subdomain. To control them, you must change your cookie preferences on the main University website.
Enable or Disable Cookies Google Analytics This website uses Google Tags and Google Analytics to collect anonymised information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping these cookies enabled helps the OII improve our website.
Enabling this option will allow cookies from: Google Analytics - tracking visits to the ox.ac.uk and oii.ox.ac.uk domains These cookies will remain on your website for 365 days, but you can edit your cookie preferences at any time via the "Cookie Settings" button in the website footer.
Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! GDPR Cookie Compliance
