OII | People
2023
https://www.oii.ox.ac.uk/people/msc-students

Research Research Section Home Research Areas Digital Economies Digital Knowledge and Culture Digital Politics and Government Education, Digital Life and Wellbeing Ethics and Philosophy of Information Information Geography and Inequality Information Governance and Security Social Data Science Publications Projects Research Microsites Visitor Programme Study Study Section Home Our Programmes MSc in Social Data Science MSc in Social Science of the Internet DPhil in Social Data Science DPhil in Information, Communication and the Social Sciences Recognised Student Programme Study FAQs Open Days Summer Doctoral Programme SDP Tutors SDP Alumni Gallery People People Section Home OII People Faculty & Research Fellows Research Staff Senior Fellows DPhil Students MSc Students Administration Research Associates Advisory Board Visitors Faculty Associates Former Members of the OII Vacancies Equality, Diversity & Inclusion News & Events News & Events Section Home News Latest Reports Press Coverage Upcoming Events Videos & Event Recordings Follow Us About About Section Home Our History Our Founding Donor Giving to the Oxford Internet Institute The Shirley Scholars Fund Executive Education Information for Alumni Find Us Library Research Research Research Areas Digital Economies Digital Knowledge and Culture Digital Politics and Government Education, Digital Life and Wellbeing Ethics and Philosophy of Information Information Geography and Inequality Information Governance and Security Social Data Science Publications Projects Research Microsites Visitor Programme Study Study Our Programmes MSc in Social Data Science MSc in Social Science of the Internet DPhil in Social Data Science DPhil in Information, Communication and the Social Sciences Recognised Student Programme Study FAQs Open Days Summer Doctoral Programme SDP Tutors SDP Alumni Gallery People People OII People Faculty & Research Fellows Research Staff Senior Fellows DPhil Students MSc Students Administration Research Associates Advisory Board Visitors Faculty Associates Former Members of the OII Vacancies Equality, Diversity & Inclusion News & Events News & Events News Latest Reports Press Coverage Upcoming Events Videos & Event Recordings Follow Us About About Our History Our Founding Donor Giving to the Oxford Internet Institute The Shirley Scholars Fund Executive Education Information for Alumni Find Us Library OII > People > People Show: Find a person: MSc Students MSc in Social Data Science Michelle Abigan MSc Student Michelle is an MSc student in Social Data Science. She holds a BSc in Economics and Business Analytics. Prior to her postgraduate studies, she gained experiences in online marketplaces and consulting.
Leopold Augustin MSc Student Leopold gained experience in EdTech data analysis, strategy consulting, and venture capital. He is interested in the effects of social networks, network effects, and artificial intelligence on education.
Tom Bennett MSc Student Thomas has studied Data Science, Finance, Economics, and Commercial Law at the University of Sydney. He is interested in using big data and designing data system flows to improve social outcomes.
Danit Berger Zalmanson MSc Student Danit's research focuses on developing an NLP algorithm to understand international relations comprehensively. She has an extensive background in Tech and the Israeli government.
Alejandra Castañeda MSc Student Alejandra has focused on the use of data for digital equity, development, education and women’s empowerment. Her experience includes technology consulting for the government, non-profits and UNESCO.
Kendall Clark MSc Student Kendall worked as an intern with the Institute for the Quantitative Study of Inclusion, Diversity, and Equity, and is interested in the impact technology can have in perpetuating systems of oppression as well as its potential for social good.
Marieth Coetzer MSc Student Marieth is a student in Social Data Science who completed her BSc in Data Theory at UCLA. Her research interests include understanding what factors affect social support as well as depolarizing opinion networks.
Leah Davis MSc Student Leah has professional experience in healthcare software quality assurance and AI course design. She is passionate about exploring the social impacts of diverse technologies, especially within healthcare applications and regulatory frameworks.
Samson Donick MSc Student Samson has developed machine learning applications in finance. He researches the dynamics of complex sociotechnical systems and the reduction of socioeconomic inequalities.
Asanilta Fahda MSc Student Asanilta Fahda holds a BSc in Informatics/Computer Science and worked for 5 years as a software engineer in several international companies ranging from e-commerce, data analytics, to FP&A software. She joined the OII as a Jardine Scholar.
David Feng MSc Student David is a MSc in Social Data Science candidate at the OII interested in applying network science to examine the interaction between individual-level characteristics and population-level outcomes.
Ariana Gamarra MSc Student Ariana is interested in the social impact of technology. She previously worked as a product consultant for an asset management firm and holds a BA in Information Science and Sociology from Cornell University.
Adam Gumieniczek MSc Student Adam completed a MA in Japanese and Linguistics at the University of Edinburgh and has experience working as a translator. Adam is interested in applying natural language processing to examine the sociolinguistics of the internet.
Franziska Sofia Hafner MSc Student Sofia is a published author on AI bias and developed a fair sentiment analysis tool as a researcher at American University. She studied Computer Science and Public Policy at the University of Glasgow.
Zara Hamzah Sendut MSc Student Zara holds a BSc in Philosophy, Politics and Economics with Social Data Science from UCL. She is interested in using data science to promote inclusive development in postcolonial societies.
Milko Hristov MSc Student Milko researches the gig economy and its potential as a vehicle for economic development. He is a sustainable business owner who majored in economics at the University of Warwick.
Haley Johnson MSc Student Haley is interested in political discourse, extremism and the dissemination of news online. She studied information science and statistics at the University of Michigan.
Atharva Karandikar MSc Student Atharva has worked in economics consulting and fintech, and is interested in learning how to apply data science methods to solve interesting economics questions.
Romina Karkalou MSc Student Romina studied psychology at Deree - The American College of Greece and gained experience working as a researcher and lab assistant in various social, cognitive, and consumer psychology projects.
Qi Xuan Khoo MSc Student Khoo is a MSc in Social Data Science student on the Rhodes Scholarship. He holds a BSc in Economics and Computer Science from Duke University, and is currently researching into questions around technological change and economic development.
Karolina Korgul MSc Student Karolina holds a BA from the University of Warsaw, in Economics, Computer Science, and Data Science. She is particularly passionate about customer behaviour, education, psychonometrics, state digitalisation, and trust and safety in digital products.
Sneha Kotecha MSc Student Sneha holds a BSc in Economics and Finance from Exeter University. Sneha is interested leveraging machine learning techniques to model and foresee climate action outcomes in developing nations. Sneha also has a passion for quantitative finance.
Qi Min Lim MSc Student Qi Min is interested in understanding how to use Data Science for social good and interdisciplinary work. She holds a BSc in Psychology with Education from University College London.
Eily Lo MSc Student Eily holds a BSc in Social Sciences with Data Science from UCL and has worked as a data consultant for the Global Survey of Public Servants. She is interested in the intersection of technology and international development.
William Lugoloobi MSc Student William Gitta is interested in developing AI tools and mitigating algorithmic bias in generative models. He is a software engineer and journalist with a BS in Journalism from Northwestern University.
Janai Mintah MSc Student Janai Mintah is an MSc student. She holds a Bachelors of Arts degree in Economics with a minor in Statistics. She gained experience in global indices and digital banking in the financial industry.
Mehdi Mojarradi MSc Student Mehdi holds a degree in Statistics from Williams College. He spent two undergraduate years at the University of Oxford studying machine learning, Islamic studies, and Middle Eastern studies.
Achille Negrier MSc Student Achille has worked at Amazon Web Services and focuses on applying Data Science to Social issues.
Saskia Redgate MSc Student Saskia holds a BSc in Mathematics and Statistics. Prior to her postgraduate studies, she worked as Data Scientist in the financial sector.
Leona Renard Kouame MSc Student Leona is an Academic Futures Scholar with a Social Sciences BA from Cambridge University. She is interested in NLP, computer vision, and misinformation, applying her insights from sustainability consulting, research, and finance.
Noa Ron MSc Student Noa has a BA in Psychology and the Humanities from Tel-Aviv University, with a research background in cognitive psychology and gender psychology. She has experience in retailer loyalty campaigns personalization.
Tommy Safar MSc Student Tommy is an MSc student in Social Data Science and holds a bachelor's degree in Political Economy. Before joining Oxford, he gained research and work experience as an econometrics research assistant at KCL and as an intern in the insurance market.
Katalin Schneider MSc Student Katalin focuses on using data science to better understand political, international and feminist phenomena. She is particularly interested in the interplay of disruptive technologies, especially quantum computing.
Sinclaire Schuetze MSc Student Sinclaire holds a BA in Data Science and Economics from Wellesley College. She has previously worked as a software engineering intern and data science intern in the fintech and insurance industries.
Eva Slevin MSc Student Eva holds a BSc in Political Science and International Relations with Geography from University College Dublin. She is interested in climate policy, transboundary governance and politics of health.
Salma Soliman MSc Student Salma is an MSc student in Social Data Science. She holds a BSc in Economics with a Data Science specialization from New York University. Prior to her postgraduate studies, she was an Associate at the Boston Consulting Group for two years.
Errin Tijssens MSc Student Errin holds an MSc in Global Business & Sustainability from Erasmus University and studied Governance, Economics and Development during his Bachelor’s. Prior to joining the OII, he worked for a multinational corporation in the FMCG industry.
Niklas Wais MSc Student Niklas' research focuses on the intersection of law and computer science. After graduating from the University of Freiburg with a law degree, he pursued a doctorate on data-driven prediction of court decisions.
Pengyun Wang MSc Student Pengyun's primary research areas are biostatistics theory, health economics, and network analysis.
Teodor Yankov MSc Student Teodor is a data scientist at the World Data Lab, tracking UN SDGs, demography and consumer spending. With a BSc in Politics & IR from UCL, Teodor is passionate about leveraging data for social impact.
Justin Yeung MSc Student Justin's research interests address questions on topics such as collective intelligence, AI in journalism and critical data studies using both computational and qualitative methods.
Christina Ziegler MSc Student Christina is interested in quantitative political science with a focus on topics in gender and politics and social inequality. She joined the department as an OII Shirley Scholar.
MSc in Social Science of the Internet Lynn Akili MSc Student Lynn is exploring the consequences of rapid technologisation being pushed by the public and private sectors globally. She holds a dual B.A. in Politics and Middle Eastern Studies from New York University.
Ben Bariach MSc Student Ben is a part-time MSc student at the OII with an interest in AI ethics. He currently works on social impact partnerships at Google, and has previously worked on various tech policy topics at Google's Public Policy and Legal teams.
Adam Bein MSc Student Adam is a corporate lawyer alongside his part-time studies at the OII. His academic pastimes include digital ethics, data protection and cultural heritage protection. He is a graduate of Harvard Law School and the University of Birmingham.
Joe Cappai MSc Student Desiree Cho MSc Student Desiree is a mixed-methods user researcher who is interested in human interactions with AI. She previously researched on using technology, specifically mid-air haptics, to improve well-being.
George Colville MSc Student George's research focuses on include digital capitalism, recommender systems, decentralized network protocols, and the effect of the internet on contemporary culture.
Jack Cook MSc Student Jack joined the OII as a Rhodes scholar and holds BS and MEng degrees in computer science from MIT. His research interests include legislation of AI, social media, and online journalism.
Nathan Davies MSc Student Nathan researches the state in an age of digital era government. He draws on his BA at Cambridge, where he focused on the history of technology and temporality, and his experience at start-ups and a government-focused technology company.
Gillian Diebold MSc Student Gillian studies data policy and global digital inequalities, having previously worked as a policy analyst at a think tank. She holds a BA in Communication and Political Science from the University of Pennsylvania.
Yichen Du MSc Student Yichen is an active participant in social media, with a background in journalism and big data. She is passionate about exploring online identities through digital engagement and promoting social good.
Obioma Egemonye MSc Student Obioma holds a BSc in Philosophy, Politics and Economics with Social Data Science from UCL. She spent the last year in research roles at Connected by Data, Family Links and the Overseas Development Institute.
Ingrid Epure MSc Student Ingrid has more than a decade of experience as a software engineer and has worked on high-scale systems such as advertising platforms and cloud computing. She is interested in ways of determining social networks' impact on society.
Silja Erholtz MSc Student Silja is a part-time MSc in Social Science of the Internet student and works in UX design. She holds degrees in social services and early childhood education from Finland and fine art from India.
Hayden Goldberg MSc Student Hayden studies voting rights and redistricting, and is interested in the intersection of social media and civic engagement. His BA in Political Science and Economics is from the University of Washington.
Charlie Grossman MSc Student Charlie is a Shirley Scholar at the OII studying the Social Science of the Internet. Alongside his studies, he works for the Centre for Data Ethics and Innovation (CDEI), focusing on AI ethics.
Atharv Gupta MSc Student Atharv is a Rhodes Scholar studying how internet technologies are shaping the world of international development and financial inclusion. He holds a BS in International Relations from Georgetown University.
James Hale MSc Student Hunter Hinson MSc Student Hunter is a Shirley Scholar studying emerging technologies like generative AI and how to address their effects on politics and society. He holds a BA in Communication and Political Science from the University of Southern California.
Nuzaina Khan MSc Student Nuzaina is a Rhodes Scholar interested in decision-making using interdisciplinary models of persuasion. Her research focuses on leveraging emerging technologies in the fight against misinformation, violent extremism, and censorship.
Fiona Knäussel MSc Student Alongside her part-time MSc at the OII, Fiona works as a Research Associate for peace data applications and data ethics during violent conflict. She is a graduate of the London School of Economics and the University of Edinburgh.
Nuria Köchling MSc Student Nuria is interested in creatively combining different regulatory tools to promote democracy-enhancing measures in the digital realm. She has worked in the European Parliament and a German Federal Ministry.
Yui Kondo MSc Student Yui's research focuses on developing a network visualizer for estimating social group visibility on social media. She holds a BA in International Political Economy from Waseda University in Japan.
Maximilian Kroner Dale MSc Student Maximilian is studying the governance of emerging technologies. Prior to studying at the OII, he was a Senior Advisor at the Behavioural Insights Team.
Sarah Kulaga MSc Student Sarah has worked in both the US House of Representatives and for a non-profit advocacy organization in Washington D.C. She is interested in the relationship between political social media and violence against certain ethnic and religious groups.
Hannah Lederman MSc Student Hannah interned at Meta as a UX Content Designer redesigning the Instagram shopping experience. She is interested in Responsible AI and data privacy regulation.
Elijiah Lewien MSc Student Jonathan Lim MSc Student Jonathan's research interests lie at the crossroads of social science and technology, with a focus on analysing human behaviour within online environments, specifically social media platforms.
Emelie Lindelöw MSc Student Emelie's research focuses on making the internet a safer place for vulnerable communities. Prior to the OII, Emelie worked in online safety consulting and she holds an MA in Politics from the University of Glasgow.
Shanell Logan MSc Student Shanell is interested in the ways race, technology, and education can perpetuate harmful ideologies and uphold existing inequalities. She is passionate about educational justice and holds a BA in Sociology from UCLA.
Max Low MSc Student Max is interested in policy approaches to regulate emerging technologies, as well as in trust and artificially-generated content, especially in the fields of news media and politics.
Georgina Lubke MSc Student, Research Assistant Georgina is a student on the MSc Social Science of the Internet programme, and a Research Assistant at the Oxford Internet Institute.
Elina Mäkelä MSc Student Elina holds a BA in Combined Social Sciences and a MSc in Global Management. Prior to joining the OII, she worked for Finland's Foreign Ministry in Geneva and Helsinki, and spent 2 years at McKinsey.
Tsimafei Malakhouski MSc Student Tsimafei is a programme manager and researcher at a Belarusian NGO in exile. He holds a bachelor's degree in political science and his research focuses on political participation in non-democracies.
Pete Marcus MSc Student Pete is interested in contemporary policy and regulatory approaches to the impact of technology, especially in the UK, EU, US and China. He holds an MA in English from the University of Cambridge.
Jess Miller MSc Student Jess is interested in privacy, Generative AI, and the politics of encryption. She works as a Cyber & Privacy Policy Analyst at ZeroDay Law.
Elly Millican MSc Student Elly is a technologist who has been active in open source software for social good. She holds a BA in Sociology, Anthropology, and International Migration Studies from UCLA. She researches the impact of digital technologies in migration governance.
Sara Minaeian MSc Student Sara Minaeian is interested in the intersection of data ethics, AI and quantum computing. Prior to joining OII, Sara was Chief of Staff in the Government of Canada.
Yolanda Mlonzi MSc Student Yolanda holds a BA (Hons) Degree from the University of the Witwatersrand, South Africa. She is passionate about the positive impact having access to technology and the internet could be for development, especially in regions like Africa.
Mina Mohammadi MSc Student Mina is a data journalist with a deep interest in understanding AI policy and its intersection with issues surrounding censorship and free speech. She previously worked at the Google News Initiative and has by-lines at NBC News amongst others.
Temilorun Olanipekun MSc Student Temilorun is a research and business professional working in the digital technology space, and has professional experience working across four tech sectors: civic-tech, Proptech, Edtech, and Blockchain/Web3.
Jey Ou MSc Student Jey holds a BSc in Psychology from University College London. She is interested in digital propaganda and its influence on political behaviour & radicalisation. She previously worked at a polling company.
Gwen Palmer Steeds MSc Student Gwen is interested in civics education, advocacy, and democratic participation in the digital era. They hold a Bachelor of Communication in political communication from Victoria University of Wellington.
Shachar Peled MSc Student Shachar Peled is an award-winning storyteller, spanning digital media, current affairs and documentaries, with more than a decade of experience in editorial and communications expertise.
Hannah Perry MSc Student Hannah is a researcher, educator and Shirley Scholar focusing on education policy and practice to support resilience to misinformation. She has a Classics MA Cantab, Diaspora Studies SOAS MA and PGCE.
Henry Portman MSc Student Henry joins the OII as a part-time student while working in the field of machine learning. His research interests relate to natural language processing (NLP) and interpretability in AI.
Srinidhi Ramakrishna MSc Student Srinidhi is interested in the political and ethical implications of surveillance and policing technologies, as well as other forms of digitized carceral control. She joined the OII as a Thouron Scholar.
Tom Rentschler MSc Student Tom specializes in the field of technology economics. Having a background in technology investing at a venture capital fund, he is currently eager to delve deeper into the influence that technologies like Generative AI have on our economy.
Shyla Robinson MSc Student Shyla is interested in cyber-enabled organised crime prevention, computational propaganda, and the decline of digital rights in India. She holds a BSc in Politics and International Relations from UCL.
Lenka Rueda Molins MSc Student Lenka is a qualified lawyer with 10 years of experience advising large tech firms on their compliance with the EU, US and UK regulatory requirements. She works at Deloitte, where she helps to set up the DSA and social media algorithms audit approach.
Will Shao MSc Student Will is interested in the geopolitics of technology, especially generative AI and semiconductors. He has been working at the Ditchley Foundation as the Technology & Democracy Networks Lead since 2022.
Divya Siddarth MSc Student Divya is the co-founder of the Collective Intelligence Project, which advances collective intelligence capabilities for the effective governance of transformative technologies.
Jack Van Cooten MSc Student Research Team Manager at Consultancy, Oliver Wyman. Previously Digital Research at OW and African Bank, Ecobank. Also worked in the Humanitarian sector (Save the Children and UN). For over a decade, Jack has run music events under Banana Hill.
Maknoon Wani MSc Student Maknoon is a former journalist and researches global tech policy trends with a focus on hate speech, content moderation and authoritarian tech.
Samantha Washington Wilcke MSc Student Boxi Wu MSc Student Boxi Wu works in Google DeepMind's Ethics & Society team alongside their part-time studies in the MSc in Social Science.
Qing Xiao MSc Student Qing holds a particular interest in the way the public, companies, and governments together are creating an alternative possibility of the future of technology, which would beyond techno-feudalism and cybernetic authoritarianism.
Ellen Yang MSc Student Ellen is interested in the datafication and the ethical use of AI in education. She founded a charitable project promoting digital literacy among older adults and co-founded an AI social enterprise during her time at Durham.
Zijian Ye MSc Student Zijian is a graduate of Nanjing University and the University of Pennsylvania. An educational start-up founder and independent researcher, Zijian is interested in technology-enhanced social control, digital propaganda, and recommender algorithms.
Xuan Zhu MSc Student Xuan has a Bachelor of Commerce from the University of Toronto. She is interested in the intersection of business, technology and policy and impactful interdisciplinary projects advocating emerging technologies’ use for good social targeting.
Dorottya Zsiborács MSc Student Dorottya is interested in defence and security issues, with a special focus on NATO and other transatlantic defence initiatives, intelligence and emerging technologies.
1 St Giles, Oxford, OX1 3JS, UK +44 (0)1865 287210 General: enquiries@oii.ox.ac.uk Press: press@oii.ox.ac.uk FOLLOW US: INFORMATION FOR: Prospective students Alumni Job seekers Media Policy makers We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website.
You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings.
Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies Google Analytics Privacy Overview This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookies moove_gdrp_popup - a cookie that saves your preferences for cookie settings. Without this cookie, the screen offering you cookie options will appear on every page you visit.
This cookie remains on your computer for 365 days, but you can adjust your preferences at any time by clicking on the "Cookie settings" link in the website footer.
Please note that if you visit the Oxford University website, any cookies you accept there will appear on our site here too, this being a subdomain. To control them, you must change your cookie preferences on the main University website.
Enable or Disable Cookies Google Analytics This website uses Google Tags and Google Analytics to collect anonymised information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping these cookies enabled helps the OII improve our website.
Enabling this option will allow cookies from: Google Analytics - tracking visits to the ox.ac.uk and oii.ox.ac.uk domains These cookies will remain on your website for 365 days, but you can edit your cookie preferences at any time via the "Cookie Settings" button in the website footer.
Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! GDPR Cookie Compliance
