OII | People
2023
https://www.oii.ox.ac.uk/people/research-staff

Research Research Section Home Research Areas Digital Economies Digital Knowledge and Culture Digital Politics and Government Education, Digital Life and Wellbeing Ethics and Philosophy of Information Information Geography and Inequality Information Governance and Security Social Data Science Publications Projects Research Microsites Visitor Programme Study Study Section Home Our Programmes MSc in Social Data Science MSc in Social Science of the Internet DPhil in Social Data Science DPhil in Information, Communication and the Social Sciences Recognised Student Programme Study FAQs Open Days Summer Doctoral Programme SDP Tutors SDP Alumni Gallery People People Section Home OII People Faculty & Research Fellows Research Staff Senior Fellows DPhil Students MSc Students Administration Research Associates Advisory Board Visitors Faculty Associates Former Members of the OII Vacancies Equality, Diversity & Inclusion News & Events News & Events Section Home News Latest Reports Press Coverage Upcoming Events Videos & Event Recordings Follow Us About About Section Home Our History Our Founding Donor Giving to the Oxford Internet Institute The Shirley Scholars Fund Executive Education Information for Alumni Find Us Library Research Research Research Areas Digital Economies Digital Knowledge and Culture Digital Politics and Government Education, Digital Life and Wellbeing Ethics and Philosophy of Information Information Geography and Inequality Information Governance and Security Social Data Science Publications Projects Research Microsites Visitor Programme Study Study Our Programmes MSc in Social Data Science MSc in Social Science of the Internet DPhil in Social Data Science DPhil in Information, Communication and the Social Sciences Recognised Student Programme Study FAQs Open Days Summer Doctoral Programme SDP Tutors SDP Alumni Gallery People People OII People Faculty & Research Fellows Research Staff Senior Fellows DPhil Students MSc Students Administration Research Associates Advisory Board Visitors Faculty Associates Former Members of the OII Vacancies Equality, Diversity & Inclusion News & Events News & Events News Latest Reports Press Coverage Upcoming Events Videos & Event Recordings Follow Us About About Our History Our Founding Donor Giving to the Oxford Internet Institute The Shirley Scholars Fund Executive Education Information for Alumni Find Us Library OII > People > People Show: Find a person: Research Staff Dr Oğuz Alyanak Postdoctoral Researcher Oğuz Alyanak is currently a postdoctoral researcher at the Fairwork project.
Dr Daniel Arubayi Postdoctoral Researcher Daniel Arubayi is a Postdoctoral Researcher at Fairwork, a global project based at the Oxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford.
Dr Adam Badger Postdoctoral Researcher Adam Badger is a Postdoctoral Researcher at the Oxford Internet Institute, researching working practice in the global gig economy as part of the Fairwork project.
Nick Ballou Postdoctoral Researcher Nick Ballou is a postdoc researching how video games affect mental health both for better and for worse, and how to make psychological research on games more trustworthy.
Dr Alessio Bertolini Researcher Alessio Bertolini is a Researcher at the Oxford Internet Institute for the project FairWork, where he is investigating platform work in the UK and Germany.
Dr Piotr Blaszczyk Research Associate, Postdoctoral Researcher Dr Blaszczyk is a Postdoctoral Researcher at the Oxford Internet Institute. He is a computer scientist with experience in academia and years of leadership positions in the technology sector.
Lola Brittain Research Assistant Lola Brittain is a Research Assistant on the Fairwork project at the Oxford Internet Institute.
Dr Callum Cant Postdoctoral Researcher Callum Cant is a postdoctoral researcher on the Global Partnership for AI’s 'Fair Work for AI' project focusing on regulatory frameworks for AI in the workplace. His research interests include algorithmic management and class composition.
Dr Tiantian Chen Research Assistant Tiantian Chen is a research assistant on the project “Geographies of Digital Divide: A data-driven approach to understanding structural determinants of digital inequalities” funded by John Fell Fund.
Eoin Delaney Postdoctoral Researcher Eoin is a postdoctoral researcher on the Trustworthiness Auditing in AI project. His research interests include explainable and trustworthy AI, interpretable machine learning and evaluating robustness, stability and uncertainty in explanation.
Sakshi Ghai Postdoctoral Researcher Sakshi Ghai is a Postdoctoral Researcher working on the research programme on ‘Adolescent Well-Being in the Digital Age’, where she investigates the effects of digital technologies on adolescent well-being in global young populations.
Dr Laura Hakimi Postdoctoral Researcher Laura is a postdoctoral researcher on the ESRC-funded project “Towards equity focused approaches to EdTEch: a socio-technical perspective.” Her research interests lie at the intersection of learning, technology, ethics and inequality.
Dr Anjali Krishan Postdoctoral Researcher Anjali Krishan is a postdoctoral researcher at Fairwork.
Georgina Lubke MSc Student, Research Assistant Georgina is a student on the MSc Social Science of the Internet programme, and a Research Assistant at the Oxford Internet Institute.
Karen Mansfield Postdoctoral Researcher Karen is a Postdoctoral Researcher working on the research programme on 'Adolescent Well-Being in the Digital Age' with Prof. Andrew Przybylski.
Dr Vidya Narayanan Postdoctoral Researcher Vidya studies machine learning for biodiversity, as part of the "Benchmark for Nature" project for the Oxford Martin School's Programme on Biodiversity and Society.
Dr Daria Onitiu Postdoctoral Researcher Daria Onitiu is a Postdoctoral Researcher within the Trustworthiness for AI Auditing project. She is interested in the facets and boundaries of the law to address pressing societal problems caused by novel technologies.
Dr Murali Shanmugavelan Postdoctoral Researcher Murali Shanmugavelan’s research is concerned with the repudiation of social hierarchies such as caste, race and gender in media and communication studies, digital cultures, and gig economies.
Dr Funda Ustek Spilda Senior Researcher and Project Manager Dr Funda Ustek-Spilda a postdoctoral researcher and project manager on the Fairwork project at the Oxford Internet Institute.
Dr Jonas C. L. Valente Cloudwork Postdoctoral Researcher Jonas C. L Valente is a Brazilian researcher with a sociology Ph.D., with a thesis about digital platforms. He worked as a professor in Brazilian universities and is the author and editor of books about digital platforms and work.
Robbie Warin Research Assistant Robbie Warin is a Research Assistant at Fairwork.
1 St Giles, Oxford, OX1 3JS, UK +44 (0)1865 287210 General: enquiries@oii.ox.ac.uk Press: press@oii.ox.ac.uk FOLLOW US: INFORMATION FOR: Prospective students Alumni Job seekers Media Policy makers We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website.
You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings.
Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies Google Analytics Privacy Overview This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookies moove_gdrp_popup - a cookie that saves your preferences for cookie settings. Without this cookie, the screen offering you cookie options will appear on every page you visit.
This cookie remains on your computer for 365 days, but you can adjust your preferences at any time by clicking on the "Cookie settings" link in the website footer.
Please note that if you visit the Oxford University website, any cookies you accept there will appear on our site here too, this being a subdomain. To control them, you must change your cookie preferences on the main University website.
Enable or Disable Cookies Google Analytics This website uses Google Tags and Google Analytics to collect anonymised information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping these cookies enabled helps the OII improve our website.
Enabling this option will allow cookies from: Google Analytics - tracking visits to the ox.ac.uk and oii.ox.ac.uk domains These cookies will remain on your website for 365 days, but you can edit your cookie preferences at any time via the "Cookie Settings" button in the website footer.
Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! GDPR Cookie Compliance
