
2023
https://www.iter.org/album/construction

Jobs 7 Tenders 78 Faqs Visits Contact us ITER Directory Subscribe Donate.
gsc-placeholder-input{outline: none; background: url("http://www.google.com/cse/static/en/google_custom_search_watermark.gif") 0% 50% no-repeat rgb(255, 255, 255);padding: 1px 6px;border: 1px solid #DDD;width: 99%; font-size:13px;height: 30px;margin: 0px 5px;width: 100%!important;} .gsc-search-button{display:none} .gsc-control-cse{background-color:transparent; border-color:transparent} Subscribe options Select your newsletters: ITER Newsline Keep in touch with ITER through our main news feed, sent weekly.
ITER Magazine - French only Learn more about the ITER Project by subscribing to this quarterly online magazine that is geared toward the general public.
ITER Open Doors Day - Notifications Stay informed about the ITER Open Doors sessions and be among the first to subscribe to the next event.
Please enter your email address: @ Your email address will only be used for the purpose of sending you the ITER Organization publication(s) that you have requested.
ITER Organization will not transfer your email address or other personal data to any other party or use it for commercial purposes.
If you change your mind, you can easily unsubscribe by clicking the unsubscribe option at the bottom of an email you've received from ITER Organization.
For more information, see our Privacy policy.
') < 0){ $(this).remove(); } }) $("div.sub").each(function(){ $(this).appendTo("#menu-content"); if ($(this).find('li.active').length > 0){ var activeSubMenu = $(this).index() + 1; $("li.menu-cat[data-id='" + activeSubMenu + "']").addClass('active'); } else if( $(document).find('div#menu h2 a.active').length > 0 ) { } }) var activeIndex = $('li.menu-cat.active').index(); if(activeIndex >= 0){ $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == activeIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); } //hide menu on overlay click $('div.black-overlay').click(function(){ $('li.menu-cat.selected').trigger( "click" ); }); function menuBehaviour() { var isiPhone = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("iphone"); var isiPad = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("ipad"); var isiPod = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("ipod"); var isAndroid = /android/i.test(navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase()); var isBlackberry = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("BlackBerry"); var isOpera = /Opera/i.test(navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase()); var isIE = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("IEMobile"); //for Tablet if(isiPhone > -1 || isiPad > -1 || isiPod > -1 || isAndroid || isBlackberry > -1 || isOpera || isIE > 1){ $('li.menu-cat span.glyphicon').click(function(event) { //remove href link event.preventDefault(); currentMenu = $(this).parent().parent().parent(); setMenuTimeoutConst = setTimeout( function() { MenuToggle( $(currentMenu) ); setMenuTimeoutConst = null; }, 500 ); }); }else{ $('li.menu-cat').on( 'mouseenter', function() { currentMenu = $(this); setMenuTimeoutConst = setTimeout( function() { MenuToggle( $(currentMenu) ); setMenuTimeoutConst = null; }, 500 ); }); } } menuBehaviour(); $('li.menu-cat').on( 'mouseleave', function() { clearTimeout( setMenuTimeoutConst ); currentMenu = null; }); $('ul.general-menu').on( 'mouseleave', function() { closeMenuTimeout = setTimeout( closeMenu, 100 ); }); $('div#menu-content').on( 'mouseleave', function() { closeMenuTimeout = setTimeout( closeMenu, 100 ); }); $('ul.general-menu').on( 'mouseenter', function() { clearTimeout( closeMenuTimeout ); }); $('div#menu-content').on( 'mouseenter', function() { clearTimeout( closeMenuTimeout ); }); }); function closeMenu() { MenuToggle( $('.menu-cat.selected') ); clearTimeout( timeoutBlackOverlay ); $("div.black-overlay").hide(); clearTimeout( setMenuTimeoutConst ); } function MenuToggle( obj ) { currentMenu = obj; var id = $(obj).data('id'); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).find('div.column-select').css({'opacity':'0'}); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).removeClass('last'); if (id != $(this).data('id')){ $(this).removeClass('selected'); $(this).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-up').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-down'); $("div.sub.selected").addClass('last'); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).hide().removeClass('selected'); } }) if($(obj).hasClass('active')){ $("div.submenu-content-" + $(obj).data('id')).addClass('active'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); } if ($(obj).hasClass('selected')){ $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 0}); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).slideToggle().removeClass('selected'); $("div.sub").removeClass('last'); $("div.black-overlay").fadeTo(200, 0); setTimeout( function() { $("div.black-overlay").hide(); }, 200 ); $(obj).removeClass('selected'); $(obj).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-up').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-down'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); if (!$(obj).hasClass('active')){ $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').removeAttr('style'); } }); } } else { //check last selected height var lastSize = $('div.sub.last').height(); // if last has height if (lastSize > 0 ){ var currentHeight = $("div.submenu-content-" + id).height(); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).height(lastSize) $("div.submenu-content-" + id).show().animate({height : currentHeight + 30 + 'px'}); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 1}); } //else we toggle the menu else{ $("div.submenu-content-" + id).slideToggle(); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 1}); } timeoutBlackOverlay = setTimeout( function() { $("div.black-overlay").show().fadeTo(200, 0.6); }, 200 ); $(obj).addClass('selected'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); $(obj).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-down').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-up'); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(obj).data('id')).addClass('selected'); } } About About An introduction to the project's goals, history, organization, location...
In a few lines What is ITER? What will ITER do? What is Fusion? What is a Tokamak? Who is participating in ITER? When will experiments begin? History IAEA ITER Newsletter The ITER Organization ITER Members Governance Iter in France Faqs Project Milestones Legal resources Status of the Organization Independence ITER Organization-Host State Settlement of disputes Rules and regulations Use of the ITER Logo Legal Affairs mandate Visits Machine Machine One million components, ten million parts — find out more about the ITER Tokamak and its systems.
What is a TOKAMAK? The ITER TOKAMAK Magnets Vacuum Vessel Blanket Divertor Cryostat Supporting Systems Vacuum Cryogenics CODAC Remote Handling Power Supply Fuel Cycle Hot Cell Cooling Water Tritium Breeding Diagnostics External Heating Manufacturing Safety and Environment Science Science Bringing a star to Earth? Explore the science of ITER.
What is fusion? Making it work Fusion fuels Plasma heating Plasma confinement Iter goals Advantages of Fusion 60 years of progress Int'l Tokamak research After Iter Fusion Glossary Construction Construction Follow the construction of the world's largest tokamak in southern France.
Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR Assembly Assembly Assembly Overview Specialized tooling Tokamak Assembly Metrology Plant assembly Commissioning News & Media News & Media The latest photos, videos and publications from the ITER Organization.
All News Photos News in French 3D Virtual Tour ITER Newsline Videos Events ITER Podcast Press Releases Publication Centre ITER Mag archives Top Tenders ITER Directory Donate About About In a few lines In a few lines What is ITER? What will ITER do? What is Fusion? What is a Tokamak? Who is participating in ITER? When will experiments begin? History History IAEA ITER Newsletter Faqs Project Milestones The ITER Organization ITER Members Governance Iter in France Legal resources Legal resources Status of the Organization Independence ITER Organization-Host State Settlement of disputes Rules and regulations Use of the ITER Logo Legal Affairs mandate Visits Machine Machine What is a TOKAMAK? The ITER TOKAMAK The ITER TOKAMAK Magnets Vacuum Vessel Blanket Divertor Cryostat Supporting Systems Supporting Systems Vacuum Cryogenics CODAC Remote Handling Power Supply Fuel Cycle Hot Cell Cooling Water Tritium Breeding Diagnostics External Heating Manufacturing Safety and Environment Science Science What is fusion? Making it work Making it work Fusion fuels Plasma heating Plasma confinement Advantages of Fusion 60 years of progress Iter goals Int'l Tokamak research After Iter Fusion Glossary Construction Construction Projects underway Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR Assembly Assembly Assembly Overview Tokamak Assembly Plant assembly Specialized tooling Metrology Commissioning News & Media News & Media All News Photos News in French 3D Virtual Tour ITER Newsline Videos Events Press Releases Publication Centre ITER Mag archives ITER Podcast Toggle navigation Toggle navigation Francais English Jobs Tenders Faqs Contact us directory Subscribe Donate Intranet Donate...
Photo Medley Photos About to shine The High Voltage Building (left), which will house part of the power supply for the neutral beam injection heating system, is being "dressed" in its final layer of silver and black cladding and will soon match the other large buildings on site.
24 October 2023 Download Last pour for Tritium Building The last significant concrete pour, on Thursday 12 October, was to create a 60-centimetre-thick slab for the aedicula sitting on top of the Trititum Building. The seven-storey building is now completely framed out, from B2 basement level to Level 5 and roof structures.
12 October 2023 Download Painting inside the Tritium Building Paint work is progressing inside the Tritium Building (pictured: the vault annex at level L4). This vast space (40,000 cubic metres) will accommodate equipment for the tokamak cooling water and tritium breeding systems.
12 October 2023 Download The cold factory All equipment has been installed in the ITER cryoplant and commissioning is underway. The cryoplant will provide the extensive cryogenic power needed to cool the ITER magnets, thermal shield and cryopumps. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 26 September 2023 Download The pit Looking straight down into the 30-metre-deep Tokamak pit, which will house the world's largest tokamak. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 26 September 2023 Download SPIDER re-assembly underway The NBTF team is proceeding with the re-assembly of SPIDER after a key set of improvements were implemented (pictured, one of the test bed's radiofrequency drivers). SPIDER operated from 2018 to 2021 and is planning new experiments from 2024 on.
15 September 2023 Download Sector #8 on the move After spending just about one year in vertical tooling, vacuum vessel sector #8 has been returned to a horizontal orientation for removal from the Assembly Hall and repair.
15 September 2023 Download Window on the (ITER) world This new viewpoint into the Tokamak pit is proving popular with visitors.
13 September 2023 Download A team from IPP (Germany) visits the facility Engineers and physicists from the Neutral Beam Injection Group at the Max Planck Institute for Plasma Physics together with members of the Neutral Beam Test Facility Team in the experimental hall. At IPP, two test facilities have for years been supporting the development of the radio-frequency-driven ion source for ITER neutral beam injection.
13 September 2023 Download Inside the MITICA bunker Inside of the MITICA bunker with the vacuum vessel on the right and the last part of the 1MV transmission line in blue. When it enters operation, MITICA will be a 1:1-scale ITER neutral beam injector, the first to operate at ITER requirements (up to the full acceleration voltage of 1 MV and full power of 16.5 MW.
13 September 2023 Download Protected in pink Eighteen supports for the toroidal field magnets are protected in pink plastic. Just inside the circle formed by the supports is poloidal field magnet #5.
07 September 2023 Download Central solenoid: now a two-module stack Lifted by a bespoke tool exercising pressure through radial compression, a second 110-tonne central solenoid module is positioned on the assembly platform above the first. (A third waits its turn on the left.) 05 September 2023 Download Pin-point precision It takes a whole range of tools to position the 110-tonne component with the required precision: once cranes and ''synch hoists'' have done the heavy job, a complex system of subtle adjustment devices allows micrometric movements in pitch, roll and spin.
05 September 2023 Download Small adjustments Stacking cylindrical devices and connecting their fragile electrical and cryogenics leads demands a particular attention to concentricity and straightness.
05 September 2023 Download Thermal shield repair/replacement contracts signed For vacuum vessel thermal shield sectors showing no sign of stress corrosion cracking, the panels can be repaired. The initial scope of the repair contract is for two sector sets to be disassembled at ITER, repaired at the contractor's premises, and returned. For thermal shield sectors already compromised by damage, complete re-fabrication is necessary. See news about thermal shield repair/replacement contracts here: https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/3914 30 August 2023 Download Thermal shield: metrology underway Metrology is underway on outboard segments of thermal shield at one end of the Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility on site.
30 August 2023 Download Recording as-built dimensions This segment of thermal shield must be dismantled into four individual panels. Before that takes place, teams of metrologists record all of its as-built dimensions.
30 August 2023 Download Sector module #8 Vacuum vessel sector #8, seen here in a horizontal position on the upending tool, was removed from vertical tooling when it became evident that sector #6 (already in the pit) would need to be removed and repaired alongside sector #7. Sector #8 will be repaired horizontally in the former Cryostat Workshop.
29 August 2023 Download Things in reverse The "upending tool" had to turn into a "downending tool" in order to remove sector #8 from the sector sub-assembly tool where it had been positioned. This unplanned for operation required study and measurements.
29 August 2023 Download New buildings emerge The concrete facade of the Tokamak Complex is now obscured by the High Voltage Building for neutral beam power supply (black, centre). Other fast-evolving features on the platform include the structure of a new bridge for the transfer of electrical power to the magnets (right) and the low-voltage Neutral Beam Power Supply Building (left).
29 August 2023 Download Future control room The Control Building is advancing. In the main ITER control room (43 m x 18 m), the large display screens will be installed on the left wall, while viewers will get a glimpse of how ITER's "brain" operates from the viewing gallery at the far end.
29 August 2023 Download New bridges In addition to the cryobridge (foreground, for the distribution of cryogenic lines) there are now two other bridges spanning the main boulevard of the platform They are busbar bridges, for the transport of electrical busbars from the Magnet Power Conversion buildings to the Tokamak Complex.
29 August 2023 Download Inside the cryobridge In order to connect the cryolines coming from the cryoplant to those already installed in the Tokamak Building, the cryobridge runs for 130 metres, first crossing the boulevard and then making a sharp left turn to run along the Assembly Hall. This employee is inside the cryobridge, walking towards the cryoplant.
29 August 2023 Download Late summer 2023 With cladding, the two buildings for neutral beam power supplies (centre and left of centre) are looking close to finalized. In between them is a technical area designed to house 10 high voltage transformers.
29 August 2023 Download Late August Despite the heat waves of July and August, progress made over the summer is observable in every corner of the ITER platform. The last major addition to the construction platform will be the Hot Cell Facility, a large building will go up where the two cranes are standing, at left.
29 August 2023 Download Tritum Building: end of civil works Civil works on the seven-storey concrete Tritium Building are nearly complete and the tall cranes will soon be dismantled. Teams are working on the last level, L5, to complete all kinds of finishing works, including waterproofing.
29 August 2023 Download Game of comparison Comparing this latest general view with the one taken in January 2023 permits us to measure the progress accomplished.
29 August 2023 Download Disassembly works Disassembly of sector module #7 is well advanced; thermal shield panels have been removed and toroidal field coils have been dissociated. In this striking view taken from under the tool, the sector's "underbelly" is clearly visible, as are the toroidal field coils on either side in the tool "wings." 29 August 2023 Download Same tool, different operation The assembly of sector module #7 was almost finalized when the decision to stop the process and to dismantle was taken at the end of 2022. The reverse operation—the disassembly of the different elements making up a sector—is underway to prepare for repair work. (https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/3882 29 August 2023 Download Next cylindrical magnet in line This cylindrical, 110-tonne central solenoid magnet, delivered by the United States Domestic Agency, has been unwrapped to prepare for its installation on the dedicated assembly platform in the right corner of the photo.
29 August 2023 Download Disassembling sector #7 To prepare for the repair of the bevel region of vacuum vessel sector #7, the two toroidal field magnets have been removed from the sector into the wings of the tool.
29 August 2023 Download PF4 moved to storage On 8 August, poloidal field coil #4 (24 metres in diameter, 350 tonnes) is moved from the European Poloidal Field Coils Winding Facility to storage on site. Only one coil, PF3, remains to be completed by Europe.
08 August 2023 Download Preparing for the Scientific Data and Computer Centre Cooling and electrical equipment has been installed outside of Headquarters for the ITER Scientific Data and Computer Centre. The Centre will handle a data load of 50 gigabyte per second during full deuterium-tritium operation. (Read more at https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/3917) 22 July 2023 Download Thermal shield panels These are some of the 27 vacuum vessel thermal shield panels that must be repaired or replaced to correct stress corrosion cracking in the cooling pipes. In September, the ITER Newsline will have a full report on repair strategies and contracts. (https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/3914) 21 July 2023 Download 5 of 6 ring magnets completed With the successful conclusion of cold testing, poloidal field coil #4 (PF4) is ready to leave the European winding facility. Only one more coil remains to be finalized: PF3.
07 July 2023 Download Into tool The last leg of the reverse operation for sector module #6: after removal from the Tokamak pit, the component is lowered into one of the twin sector sub-assembly tools to be disassembled and prepared for repair.
05 July 2023 Download Reverse operation Lessons learned during the May 2022 installation of the sector module were essential to the reverse operation. So too was the fact that the same team was on deck... (Photo Kenichi Ueno, ITER) 05 July 2023 Download Rotating The load has now passed the wall and will be rotated 90 degrees to face the sector sub-assembly tool closest to the wall.
05 July 2023 Download Carefully now One of the most delicate passages: the toroidal field coil termination boxes (wrapped in protective pink plastic) are the most sensitive and delicate parts of the assembly. When passing the wall that separates the assembly pit from the Assembly Hall, the vertical clearance is less than 20 centimetres.
05 July 2023 Download Back towards the Assembly Hall Sector module #6 follows the same path out of the assembly pit as it did 15 months ago on its way in.
05 July 2023 Download Watching the weight The load supported by each of the four crane hooks is displayed in real time on small screens, so the math is easily done: the module weighs slightly in excess of 1,350 tonnes.
05 July 2023 Download Step by step From detaching the module from its moorings in the assembly pit to lifting and transporting it to the sub-assembly tool, more than one hundred different steps had to be defined, validated and integrated into the lift procedure.
05 July 2023 Download A few centimetres At its narrowest, the clearance between the module and the central column does not exceed a few centimetres. The lift is paused at regular intervals to slow the swinging effect.
05 July 2023 Download Eagle eyes Although the lift operation relied heavily on sensors and strategically positioned cameras, "spotters" played a crucial role in overall safety and precision.
05 July 2023 Download Sector module #6 removed Sector module #6 (1,350 tonnes) is removed from the Tokamak pit on 5 July 2023. See: https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/3904 05 July 2023 Download Back in tooling In order to carry out this reverse operation—sector module #6 from the Tokamak pit and re-placing it in tooling in the Assembly Hall—metrologists were part of the preparation and execution teams.
05 July 2023 Download Final instrument checks "A lift-off is not exactly the reverse of a landing," says Daniel Coelho, the ITER assembly engineer who will coordinate the lift operation. Procedures have had to be adapted and additional guiding systems have had to be manufactured and installed.
04 July 2023 Download Planning removal The paperwork is done. Every tool and system has been checked. A "functional briefing" has reminded everyone involved of how the operation will proceed and clarified the chain of command. This week, the delicate and complex "extraction" of vacuum vessel sector module #6 from the assembly pit (in the background) will take place.
03 July 2023 Download Reverse lift imminent Late June, technicians were busy preparing sector module #6 for removal from the pit.
28 June 2023 Download June 2023 The ITER machine assembly pit, in late June 2023. (At the base of the column, a worker with a blue hard hat provides a sense of scale.) 28 June 2023 Download A window into the Tokamak pit On Saturday 24 June, Open Doors Day groups are taken through a port cell to the edge of the Tokamak pit. They are among the last people to see sector module #6 in place in the pit, since it is scheduled for removal (within days) for repair.
24 June 2023 Download Sector tools In the background, vacuum vessel sector #7 is suspended in tooling, and its two D-shaped toroidal field coils have been removed to the wings. The second tool, further to the back of the Hall, awaits sector module #6 from the machine pit.
24 June 2023 Download Overhead The completed cryobridge is 13 metres above the platform. Two other bridges along this road will house electrical busbars (one can be seen in construction in the background).
20 June 2023 Download Diagnostic port plugs: 1st units near completion Part of 23 vacuum vessel ports, " diagnostic port plug structures" will house diagnostics, integrated services, and other hardware. Two types are planned and the first units are coming off line. More at: https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/3894.
19 June 2023 Download Extra support from below A temporary propping system is in place to support the central column tool (in the centre of the Tokamak pit) during machine assembly. These propping elements have been installed under the concrete slab of the Tokamak Complex, directly under the machine. Read all about it here: https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/3886 01 June 2023 Download Under the Tokamak Complex Underneath the concrete slab that supports the Tokamak Complex is a vast, dimly lit space whose only features are squat, pillar-like structures called "plinths." Sandwiched between the top of the pillars and the slab above, flexible seismic pads ensure that in the event of an earthquake, the integrity of the building will be protected from sudden and strong horizontal accelerations.
01 June 2023 Download Highlighting the imporance of vacuum systems The ITER vacuum team organizes regular workshops to highlight the criticality of vacuum standards and quality with technical responsible officers, quality assurance specialists, and resident inspectors working at ITER and in the Domestic Agencies.
31 May 2023 Download ITER has a new test facility installed in one of the Magnet Power Conversion buildings to test how electronics react to magnetic fields. Manufactured by ASIPP in China, the Static Magnetic Field Test Facility will test electronic and electromechanical components planned for installation near the machine. See more at https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/3884.
15 May 2023 Download Preparing for repair work The same tools that were used for assembling the vacuum vessel sector modules from 1 sector, 2 toroidal field coils and thermal shield panels, is now being used for disassembly. In this photo, two toroidal field coils are temporarily held after disassembly on the wings of vertical tool SSAT-2.
11 May 2023 Download Beginning to re-centralize control stations Since 2018, small control rooms around the site have been established to support local testing and commissioning of plant equipment. With the opening of the temporary main control room (T-MCR) in late 2022 (https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/3845), some of these distributed functions are being brough back in and centralized (https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/3880).
09 May 2023 Download Musical chairs The view inside the Assembly Hall now gives a clear indication of what will happen soon: to the left sector #7 stands in the tall assembly tool SSAT-1, ready for repairs once the outboard thermal shield panel is removed. To the right, sector #8 is solidly attached to the upending tool, waiting to be moved from vertical to horizontal and transported to another building.
08 May 2023 Download Cold test ends The cold test of poloidal field coil #4 (PF4) has ended. Stay tuned for the lifting of the lid of the cryogenic chamber.
06 May 2023 Download Sturdy yet flexible Cryogenic process lines will be sheltered in this cryobridge, designed to withstand 200 tonnes of dead load and the "pushing and pulling" of the lines.
04 May 2023 Download Bridge with an angle A covered bridge runs 70 metres from the cryoplant to the Assembly Hall, before abruptly turning left at a 90-degree angle to run parallel to the Assembly Hall for another 60 metres in order to reach the Tokamak Complex. Its purpose? To carry gas and liquid helium to "clients" (superconducting magnets, thermal shield, cryopumps).
04 May 2023 Download Coordination is the key Success was achieved through the close collaboration the ITER Organization, global logistics provider DAHER, and transport platform operator Mammoet. The company Cegelec played an important role in designing systems and processes to synchronize the movements of the six individual transport platforms, and risk manager Apave was responsible for the overall safety of the transfer.
06 April 2023 Download 900 tonnes of dead weight A heavy duty, 50-centimetre-thick reinforced slab was recently constructed to accommodate the combined load of the top lid, support frame and transport platforms in the last phase of the operation. At approximately 900 tonnes, their total weight is equivalent to that of three Airbus A380s.
06 April 2023 Download An unusual vision On its way to the storage location, some 50 metres away from the Cryostat Workshop, the flying saucer-shaped component passes the Cleaning Facility and adjacent Assembly Hall, whose architectural design add a futuristic touch to the scene.
06 April 2023 Download Huge As it sat at the far end of the Cryostat Workshop, the top lid certainly felt like a large component. But as it slowly came out of the building amidst the roar of the power packs, it seemed to have dramatically grown in size. The 30-metre-in-diameter, 10-metre-tall load dwarfed everything around it.
06 April 2023 Download 6 self-propelled modular transporters Six self-propelled modular transport platforms, each equipped with a 500 HP power pack, worked in unison to move the cryostat top lid (665 tonnes) and its massive support frame.
06 April 2023 Download Team huddle Coordination and anticipation are key for a successful, smooth and safe operation. As the transport trailer power packs warm up, a last briefing brings together the operators and responsible officers from the dozen companies and organizations involved in the top lid transfer.
06 April 2023 Download Winding facility: progressive handover begins As poloidal field coil manufacturing activities wind down, the European Domestic Agency is progressively handing over the building to the ITER Organization, which will use the space for assembly activities. On 3 April, approximately 25% of the shop floor was officially transferred. See more at: https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/3865 03 April 2023 Download Best view One of the best views of the Tokamak Complex and the ITER Assembly Hall is from the belvedere of the Visitors Centre.
01 April 2023 Download Look up! There is lots to see in the ITER Assembly Hall, including overhead! These young visitors are taking part in the ITER Open Doors Day that was organized on 1 April.
01 April 2023 Download 50 ... ou moins Fifty people climb aboard every site tour bus, but once in the Assembly Hall they are broken into four smaller groups so that everyone can hear the guide.
01 April 2023 Download An exciting stop Welcome to the Assembly Hall, where major ITER components are unwrapped and prepared for installation in the machine pit.
01 April 2023 Download Welcoming visitors on site The ITER Visitors Centre dominates the work site, and is a good place to start for visitors. (Pictured, a member of the French science association "Les Petits Débrouillards" ("Little Crafty Ones") during a display of magnetism at ITER's Open Doors Day event on 1 April.) 01 April 2023 Download The Visitors Centre Inside the Visitors Centre there are lots of ways to learn more about ITER--films, posters, mockups ... and of course the explanations of volunteer guides! 01 April 2023 Download A guest from inside the house! ITER Director-General Pietro Barabaschi (far right) takes part in one of the early bus tours of the day ... as a visitor, not a guide! 01 April 2023 Download Wow! Push aside the plastic curtain at the end of a long corridor and .... wow! The size of the future ITER machine is suddenly apparent to all the senses.
01 April 2023 Download Ready to move The Open Doors Day on 1 April was the last occasion to see the cryostat top lid in the Cryostat Workshop; it will be moved to outdoor storage next week.
01 April 2023 Download From above The ITER site seen from above in March 2023.
17 March 2023 Download From the east The ITER site seen from the east in March 2023.
17 March 2023 Download High Voltage Building The steel frames for the twin high voltage halls of the heating neutral beam system (25 metres tall) are anchored in massive concrete slabs. For each heating neutral beam injector the building will accommodate one 9-metre-tall high-voltage deck sitting on its 6-metre-tall insulating supports, as well as the even-taller bushing (16 metres) for the giant insulating transformer.
17 March 2023 Download 40% complete Civil works for the neutral beam power supply infrastructure are now 40% complete, thanks to the teams of the European Domestic Agency. ITER's Hans Decamps, the electrical engineer responsible for the project (left) is seen here discussing with Aleksei Fedotov, the technical responsible officer for the Japanese contribution.
17 March 2023 Download Europe and Japan contributing Procurement for the neutral beam power supply infrastructure is shared between Europe and Japan.
17 March 2023 Download Work moves inside The Control Building, which occupies one corner of the platform, can be seen at bottom left in this image. Civil works are complete and the work is moving inside.
16 March 2023 Download MITICA cryopump passes site acceptance tests These huge panels coated with charcoal are part of the cryopump that will allow high vacuum to be created in the full-size ITER neutral beam injector MITICA (part of the ITER Neutral Beam Test Facility in Padua, Italy.) See more at: https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/3856 12 March 2023 Download Small but essential parts 32 sets of cryojumpers—semi flexible cryogenic pipes that distribute gaseous and liquid helium from the cold valve boxes to the torus and cryostat cryopumps—have been delivered by the European Domestic Agency.
06 March 2023 Download Reproducing a daunting environment Inside the cryostat, the coil will experience extreme cold, intense pressure, high voltage and considerable thermal stresses—a foretaste of its life to come in the daunting environment of a burning plasma.
20 February 2023 Download Last step for PF4 Only one step remains for completed poloidal field coil PF4—cold testing. Cold testing will take several months, as the coil is slowly brought to a target temperature of 80 K (-193 °C), stabilized, then brought back to room temperature. Tests are planned during every stage of the process.
20 February 2023 Download One over the other The last two poloidal field coils to be produced in the European winding facility on site are now quite advanced. In this picture, as coil PF4 (black, at top) heads to cold testing, it passes over the PF3 winding pack (white).
20 February 2023 Download Top lid wrapping The top lid needs to be protected for outdoor storage. After two layers of volatile corrosion inhibitor (VCI) material were applied, a thick cover (1.5 tonnes) is being added to ensure appropriate protection. More at: https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/3844 20 February 2023 Download Cryostat lid storage location In the foreground, an octagonal concrete platform that has been reinforced for the weight of the cryostat top lid and its platform (almost 1,000 tonnes, combined).
20 February 2023 Download Temporary main control room goes live On the second floor of the ITER Headquarters building, a temporary main control room is now operating five days a week. it uses the same CODAC workstation—with the same human-machine interface—that will be moved to the main control room when it opens in the Control Building.
18 February 2023 Download Five days a week Two systems are already operational on site and run from this temporary control room—electrical distribution and utilities like compressed air and demineralized water from the Site Services Building. From this remote location, operators are also helping to commission the cryoplant, the heat rejection system and reactive power compensation.
18 February 2023 Download Monitoring closely Three cameras inside of the wrapping will allow the cryostat team to monitor the state of the component for the duration of its storage outdoors.
15 February 2023 Download Inside the cylinder The first of six cylindrical superconducting magnets for the central solenoid is positioned on a dedicated assembly platform at ITER. This picture was taken inside the cylinder, among the helium input pipes and electrical connections.
26 January 2023 Download Oversight American Carl Cormany from ITER's Magnet Section works closely with the contractor team as it carries out the many assembly steps required on module one.
26 January 2023 Download 5 other modules to come At the end of the module stacking process, the central solenoid tower will be 18 metres tall. Five other modules like the one in this photo will be added one after the other.
26 January 2023 Download Electrical connections to complete The central solenoid team is working with assembly contractors to complete the superconducting electrical connections of module 1. This involves welding, ultrasonic weld inspection, helium leak testing, electrical installation and high voltage testing.
26 January 2023 Download Next in line Module 2 is protected under a pink covering in the central solenoid zone.
26 January 2023 Download Up and up In one corner of the ITER Assembly Hall, work has started on the central solenoid magnet tower. The first module now sits atop nine lower key blocks on a dedicated assembly platform. Five more modules will bring the tower to well over 20 metres (platform included), rivalling the height of a seven-storey residential building.
26 January 2023 Download Pull! As the crane hook slowly rotates to align the component, operators use a pair of "Tirfor" devices with a relatively low but sufficient pulling capacity (800 kilograms). Precise positioning is achieved by working the two "Tirfor" units one against the other.
25 January 2023 Download Almost there The coil has now almost landed on its supports in SSAT-2. Synchronous hoist systems ("Synchoists") in the rigging, guiding devices, and customized shims contribute to the final positioning.
25 January 2023 Download Squeezing through The coil now enters the narrow space between SSAT-1 and SSAT-2. Limited clearance was the main challenge of the operation.
25 January 2023 Download Moving a huge component Halfway between the two sub-assembly tools, toroidal field coil TF8 is being readied for a 90-degree pivot. Operators standing next to the component give a sense of scale...
25 January 2023 Download Close up Hanging a few centimetres above the floor, the connexion box (wrapped in pink plastic) is the most fragile part of a toroidal field coil. Note the precision of the steel machining on the larger coil case.
25 January 2023 Download Musical chairs January's faultless transfer of two 17-metre tall, 330-tonne toroidal field coils marked the first act of a giant, slow-motion game of musical chairs aimed at making thermal shield panels and vacuum vessel sectors ready for repairs.
25 January 2023 Download Activity in the Assembly Hall There is activity in and around the double sector sub-assembly tools (SSATs) in the Assembly Hall, as component transfers are planned in relation to upcoming repair work.
25 January 2023 Download January 2023 The Tritium Building (concrete structure, left) is now at height. To the right, the structural beams of the High Voltage Building for neutral beam power supply are in place.
20 January 2023 Download Tool back in action soon This specialized sector lift tool will be back in action this year as vacuum vessel sector #6 is removed from the Tokamak pit for repair. It interfaces with the radial beam that supports the D-shaped sector.
16 January 2023 Download Important arrival Another toroidal field coil has arrived at ITER—this one from ITER Japan. Only four more of these D-shaped coils are expected (out of 19).
13 January 2023 Download Tools for in-vessel component installation At this Trial, Test and Training Facility at CNIM Systèmes Industriels (Toulon, France), bespoke mechanical handling solutions have been developed for the installation of components on the inner wall of the ITER vacuum vessel. In 2022 and early 2023, the entire suite of tools passed acceptance testing ''with flying colours.'' (Read more at https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/3835.) 10 January 2023 Download To be transferred to ITER This scale-one Trial, Test and Training Facility reproduces one-third of the ITER vacuum vessel and a single port cell corridor. It will be transferred along with all tools and mockups to ITER for operator training and procedure development.
10 January 2023 Download Manipulator arms: super strong and ultra precise This is the in-vessel tower crane developed by CNIM Systèmes Industriels, a remote-controlled mobile manipulator that travels 360° around the interior of the vacuum vessel on dedicated rails. It can carry internal components weighing up to 5 tonnes and position them at any location inside the vacuum vessel to better than 0.5 mm accuracy. Two of these manipulators are planned.
10 January 2023 Download Investigation and analysis Following months of discussion, tests and analysis, a clear picture of the repairs to be executed on the thermal shield is now emerging. The decision has been taken to remove and replace all cooling pipes (23 kilometres in total). See more information at: https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/3830.
09 January 2023 Download Pipe removal trials Under a tent in the Cryostat Workshop, contractors are stripping piping from a panel of thermal shielding as part of strategy trials. (In the photo, you see some of the pipes that have been removed.) In total, 23 kilometres of piping snake along the surface of the 27 vacuum vessel thermal shield segments and will be removed and replaced.
09 January 2023 Download Cleaning the surface A worker in protective gear cleans the surface of an outboard thermal shield panel that has had its cooling pipes removed; soon a new set of pipes will be attached. With a different steel formulation, lower-energy welding techniques, and a slightly different welding wire the new process will avoid the risk of "stress corrosion cracking." 09 January 2023 Download Questions to answer How does the removal of cooling pipes from a thermal shield panel impact the component's dimensions, rigidity and capacity to accommodate a new set of piping? This is what experts have been busy evaluating.
09 January 2023 Download Repair of the sectors The logistics are already planned for the repair of dimensional non-conformities on the three vacuum vessel sectors: sector #1(7) will stay where it is in the SSAT-1 vertical tool; sector #8 (currently in SSAT-2) will be removed and placed horizontally on a repair platform; sector #6 will be removed from the pit and installed in the SSAT-2 vertical tool. See more information at https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/3830.
08 January 2023 Download To be removed In late May/early June, one of the twin sub-assembly tools will be ready to accommodate vacuum vessel module #6. The component will be lifted out of the Tokamak pit and placed in tooling to be stripped of its thermal shield panels and toroidal field coils in order to be ready for repair in late 2023.
08 January 2023 Download Deviations on the outer shell During the formation of the D-shaped sector in factory, welding deformations created deviations from nominal on the outer shell of the sectors. Schematically (very schematically...), valleys must be filled and hills must be shaved in order to restore the geometry to nominal.
08 January 2023 Download This sector will remain in tooling Sector#1(7) remains in vertical tooling, where it is being disassembled in order to prepare for repairs on both the thermal shield segments and the geometry of vacuum vessel field joints. Notice the D-shaped coils that are now back on the tool wings.
06 January 2023 Download Click on a picture to see it fullscreen 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 ' + title + ' ' + text + ' ' + date + ' Download See our other image galleries Back in time Manufacturing underway Life at ITER Aerial Site milestones Snapshots Technical FOR THE PUBLIC Jobs About ITER FAQs Photos Visits Education Donate/Sponsor FOR THE PRESS All News Welcome Facts and Figures ITER Milestones Press Releases Fusion Glossary FOR SCIENTISTS ITPA Fusion Links Conferences How to Publish ITER Technical Reports ITER International School FOR INDUSTRY Procurement Intellectual Property Foreign Workers in France Business Events INTRANET Intranet Sitemap Terms of use Privacy Policy © 2023, ITER Organization ITER Assembly Live Event - 28 JULY The event will be live-streamed, in three parts (all times listed are French local times): 10:00 a.m. — Tour of the ITER worksite and large components on site 11:00 a.m. — Ceremony, including statements by world leaders 12:30 a.m. (or following the ceremony) — Press conference
