Putting it together
2023
https://www.iter.org/construction/SiteFabricationCryostat

Jobs 7 Tenders 78 Faqs Visits Contact us ITER Directory Subscribe Donate.
gsc-placeholder-input{outline: none; background: url("http://www.google.com/cse/static/en/google_custom_search_watermark.gif") 0% 50% no-repeat rgb(255, 255, 255);padding: 1px 6px;border: 1px solid #DDD;width: 99%; font-size:13px;height: 30px;margin: 0px 5px;width: 100%!important;} .gsc-search-button{display:none} .gsc-control-cse{background-color:transparent; border-color:transparent} Subscribe options Select your newsletters: ITER Newsline Keep in touch with ITER through our main news feed, sent weekly.
ITER Magazine - French only Learn more about the ITER Project by subscribing to this quarterly online magazine that is geared toward the general public.
ITER Open Doors Day - Notifications Stay informed about the ITER Open Doors sessions and be among the first to subscribe to the next event.
Please enter your email address: @ Your email address will only be used for the purpose of sending you the ITER Organization publication(s) that you have requested.
ITER Organization will not transfer your email address or other personal data to any other party or use it for commercial purposes.
If you change your mind, you can easily unsubscribe by clicking the unsubscribe option at the bottom of an email you've received from ITER Organization.
For more information, see our Privacy policy.
') < 0){ $(this).remove(); } }) $("div.sub").each(function(){ $(this).appendTo("#menu-content"); if ($(this).find('li.active').length > 0){ var activeSubMenu = $(this).index() + 1; $("li.menu-cat[data-id='" + activeSubMenu + "']").addClass('active'); } else if( $(document).find('div#menu h2 a.active').length > 0 ) { } }) var activeIndex = $('li.menu-cat.active').index(); if(activeIndex >= 0){ $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == activeIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); } //hide menu on overlay click $('div.black-overlay').click(function(){ $('li.menu-cat.selected').trigger( "click" ); }); function menuBehaviour() { var isiPhone = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("iphone"); var isiPad = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("ipad"); var isiPod = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("ipod"); var isAndroid = /android/i.test(navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase()); var isBlackberry = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("BlackBerry"); var isOpera = /Opera/i.test(navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase()); var isIE = navigator.userAgent.toLowerCase().indexOf("IEMobile"); //for Tablet if(isiPhone > -1 || isiPad > -1 || isiPod > -1 || isAndroid || isBlackberry > -1 || isOpera || isIE > 1){ $('li.menu-cat span.glyphicon').click(function(event) { //remove href link event.preventDefault(); currentMenu = $(this).parent().parent().parent(); setMenuTimeoutConst = setTimeout( function() { MenuToggle( $(currentMenu) ); setMenuTimeoutConst = null; }, 500 ); }); }else{ $('li.menu-cat').on( 'mouseenter', function() { currentMenu = $(this); setMenuTimeoutConst = setTimeout( function() { MenuToggle( $(currentMenu) ); setMenuTimeoutConst = null; }, 500 ); }); } } menuBehaviour(); $('li.menu-cat').on( 'mouseleave', function() { clearTimeout( setMenuTimeoutConst ); currentMenu = null; }); $('ul.general-menu').on( 'mouseleave', function() { closeMenuTimeout = setTimeout( closeMenu, 100 ); }); $('div#menu-content').on( 'mouseleave', function() { closeMenuTimeout = setTimeout( closeMenu, 100 ); }); $('ul.general-menu').on( 'mouseenter', function() { clearTimeout( closeMenuTimeout ); }); $('div#menu-content').on( 'mouseenter', function() { clearTimeout( closeMenuTimeout ); }); }); function closeMenu() { MenuToggle( $('.menu-cat.selected') ); clearTimeout( timeoutBlackOverlay ); $("div.black-overlay").hide(); clearTimeout( setMenuTimeoutConst ); } function MenuToggle( obj ) { currentMenu = obj; var id = $(obj).data('id'); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).find('div.column-select').css({'opacity':'0'}); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).removeClass('last'); if (id != $(this).data('id')){ $(this).removeClass('selected'); $(this).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-up').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-down'); $("div.sub.selected").addClass('last'); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(this).data('id')).hide().removeClass('selected'); } }) if($(obj).hasClass('active')){ $("div.submenu-content-" + $(obj).data('id')).addClass('active'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); } if ($(obj).hasClass('selected')){ $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 0}); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).slideToggle().removeClass('selected'); $("div.sub").removeClass('last'); $("div.black-overlay").fadeTo(200, 0); setTimeout( function() { $("div.black-overlay").hide(); }, 200 ); $(obj).removeClass('selected'); $(obj).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-up').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-down'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); if (!$(obj).hasClass('active')){ $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').removeAttr('style'); } }); } } else { //check last selected height var lastSize = $('div.sub.last').height(); // if last has height if (lastSize > 0 ){ var currentHeight = $("div.submenu-content-" + id).height(); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).height(lastSize) $("div.submenu-content-" + id).show().animate({height : currentHeight + 30 + 'px'}); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 1}); } //else we toggle the menu else{ $("div.submenu-content-" + id).slideToggle(); $("div.submenu-content-" + id).find("div.column-select").animate({opacity: 1}); } timeoutBlackOverlay = setTimeout( function() { $("div.black-overlay").show().fadeTo(200, 0.6); }, 200 ); $(obj).addClass('selected'); var selectedIndex = $(obj).index(); $('li.menu-cat').each(function(){ if ($(this).index() == selectedIndex +1){ $(this).find('div.inner-menu-cat').css({'box-shadow':'none'}); } }); $(obj).find('span.glyphicon').removeClass('glyphicon-chevron-down').addClass('glyphicon-chevron-up'); $("div.submenu-content-" + $(obj).data('id')).addClass('selected'); } } About About An introduction to the project's goals, history, organization, location...
In a few lines What is ITER? What will ITER do? What is Fusion? What is a Tokamak? Who is participating in ITER? When will experiments begin? History IAEA ITER Newsletter The ITER Organization ITER Members Governance Iter in France Faqs Project Milestones Legal resources Status of the Organization Independence ITER Organization-Host State Settlement of disputes Rules and regulations Use of the ITER Logo Legal Affairs mandate Visits Machine Machine One million components, ten million parts — find out more about the ITER Tokamak and its systems.
What is a TOKAMAK? The ITER TOKAMAK Magnets Vacuum Vessel Blanket Divertor Cryostat Supporting Systems Vacuum Cryogenics CODAC Remote Handling Power Supply Fuel Cycle Hot Cell Cooling Water Tritium Breeding Diagnostics External Heating Manufacturing Safety and Environment Science Science Bringing a star to Earth? Explore the science of ITER.
What is fusion? Making it work Fusion fuels Plasma heating Plasma confinement Iter goals Advantages of Fusion 60 years of progress Int'l Tokamak research After Iter Fusion Glossary Construction Construction Follow the construction of the world's largest tokamak in southern France.
Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR Assembly Assembly Assembly Overview Specialized tooling Tokamak Assembly Metrology Plant assembly Commissioning News & Media News & Media The latest photos, videos and publications from the ITER Organization.
All News Photos News in French 3D Virtual Tour ITER Newsline Videos Events ITER Podcast Press Releases Publication Centre ITER Mag archives Top Tenders ITER Directory Donate About About In a few lines In a few lines What is ITER? What will ITER do? What is Fusion? What is a Tokamak? Who is participating in ITER? When will experiments begin? History History IAEA ITER Newsletter Faqs Project Milestones The ITER Organization ITER Members Governance Iter in France Legal resources Legal resources Status of the Organization Independence ITER Organization-Host State Settlement of disputes Rules and regulations Use of the ITER Logo Legal Affairs mandate Visits Machine Machine What is a TOKAMAK? The ITER TOKAMAK The ITER TOKAMAK Magnets Vacuum Vessel Blanket Divertor Cryostat Supporting Systems Supporting Systems Vacuum Cryogenics CODAC Remote Handling Power Supply Fuel Cycle Hot Cell Cooling Water Tritium Breeding Diagnostics External Heating Manufacturing Safety and Environment Science Science What is fusion? Making it work Making it work Fusion fuels Plasma heating Plasma confinement Advantages of Fusion 60 years of progress Iter goals Int'l Tokamak research After Iter Fusion Glossary Construction Construction Projects underway Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR Assembly Assembly Assembly Overview Tokamak Assembly Plant assembly Specialized tooling Metrology Commissioning News & Media News & Media All News Photos News in French 3D Virtual Tour ITER Newsline Videos Events Press Releases Publication Centre ITER Mag archives ITER Podcast Toggle navigation Toggle navigation Francais English Jobs Tenders Faqs Contact us directory Subscribe Donate Intranet Donate...
Construction On-site fabrication Cryostat (completed) Coordination is the key Success was achieved through the close collaboration the ITER Organization, global logistics provider DAHER, and transport platform operator Mammoet. The company Cegelec played an important role in designing systems and processes to synchronize the movements of the six individual transport platforms, and risk manager Apave was responsible for the overall safety of the transfer.
06 April 2023 Download 900 tonnes of dead weight A heavy duty, 50-centimetre-thick reinforced slab was recently constructed to accommodate the combined load of the top lid, support frame and transport platforms in the last phase of the operation. At approximately 900 tonnes, their total weight is equivalent to that of three Airbus A380s.
06 April 2023 Download An unusual vision On its way to the storage location, some 50 metres away from the Cryostat Workshop, the flying saucer-shaped component passes the Cleaning Facility and adjacent Assembly Hall, whose architectural design add a futuristic touch to the scene.
06 April 2023 Download Huge As it sat at the far end of the Cryostat Workshop, the top lid certainly felt like a large component. But as it slowly came out of the building amidst the roar of the power packs, it seemed to have dramatically grown in size. The 30-metre-in-diameter, 10-metre-tall load dwarfed everything around it.
06 April 2023 Download 6 self-propelled modular transporters Six self-propelled modular transport platforms, each equipped with a 500 HP power pack, worked in unison to move the cryostat top lid (665 tonnes) and its massive support frame.
06 April 2023 Download Team huddle Coordination and anticipation are key for a successful, smooth and safe operation. As the transport trailer power packs warm up, a last briefing brings together the operators and responsible officers from the dozen companies and organizations involved in the top lid transfer.
06 April 2023 Download Ready to move The Open Doors Day on 1 April was the last occasion to see the cryostat top lid in the Cryostat Workshop; it will be moved to outdoor storage next week.
01 April 2023 Download Top lid wrapping The top lid needs to be protected for outdoor storage. After two layers of volatile corrosion inhibitor (VCI) material were applied, a thick cover (1.5 tonnes) is being added to ensure appropriate protection. More at: https://www.iter.org/newsline/-/3844 20 February 2023 Download Cryostat lid storage location In the foreground, an octagonal concrete platform that has been reinforced for the weight of the cryostat top lid and its platform (almost 1,000 tonnes, combined).
20 February 2023 Download Monitoring closely Three cameras inside of the wrapping will allow the cryostat team to monitor the state of the component for the duration of its storage outdoors.
15 February 2023 Download "Final closing piece" ITER Head of Construction Youngeek Jung speaks at a ceremony on 24 March 2022 in the Cryostat Workshop. Speaking of the completed cryostat lid, which has been prepared for storage, he said, "When it next appears, it will be the final closing piece of the largest fusion machine humans have ever dared to build." 24 March 2022 Download In person and through video link...
Gathered in the Cryostat Workshop on site or present virtually through a video connection with India, the designers, manufacturers, machining experts, metrology specialists and welders involved in the realization of the ITER cryostat bore testimony to the magnitude and complexity of the international venture.
24 March 2022 Download Thanks to ...
The steel elements were manufactured by Larsen & Toubro (India) for the Indian Domestic Agency. Welding and assembly were carried out in the Cryostat Workshop by MAN Energy Solutions (Germany). The 665-tonne component will be stored outdoors from October 2022 on in order to make room in this workshop for other machine assembly activities.
10 March 2022 Download Lid completed Approximately one year after work started on the ITER cryostat top lid, the team has completed the 665-tonne component. Only some cleaning and final verification checks remain.
10 March 2022 Download The most complex of the sections The top lid is also the most structurally complex of the four sections that make up the ITER cryostat. Curved in three directions like a skull cap, it is strengthened by an array of stiffeners and ribs. Here, from left to right: Dipen Shah, from Indian manufacturer Larsen & Toubro; Guillaume Vitupier, leader of the ITER cryostat group; and Girish Kumar Gupta, ITER cryostat engineer.
10 March 2022 Download Six years of activity come to a close Final checks before the component is handed over to the ITER Organization late March. The finalization of the top lid concludes six years of work in the Cryostat Workshop for the assembly and welding of the four large ITER cryostat sections.
08 March 2022 Download Like a fire-breathing dragon This plasma-jet cutting tool is performing precise machining on the cryostat lid. The ultra hot (30 000 °C) hydrogen-nitrogen-argon plasma slices through steel like butter.
22 September 2021 Download Plasma cutting tool Precisely aligned, the nozzle of the robot's cutting head delivers a super heated jet of hydrogen-nitrogen-argon plasma.
22 September 2021 Download 50% of welding finalized Every radial joint must be leak tested on both surfaces of the steel plate (top and underside), a process that takes about two days. 50% of cryostat lid welding has now been finalized.
22 September 2021 Download Top lid welding kicks off The alignment of the twelve 30-degree segments has been confirmed and all preparatory activities completed. The four- to five-month campaign to weld the cryostat top lid begins on 7 June 2021.
07 June 2021 Download First "arc" Two welders from MAN Energy Solutions (subcontractor to India's Larsen & Toubro) work in parallel on opposite sides of the component's "skin" to create the ''first arc'' of the welding campaign.
07 June 2021 Download Top lid taking shape The 665-tonne top lid section is taking shape in the Cryostat Workshop. MAN Energy Solutions (sub-contractor to India's Larsen & Toubro) is in charge of welding. Photo: © Christian Luenig (www.arbeitsblende.de) 24 March 2021 Download Last of four The cryostat top lid is the last of four cryostat sections to be produced on site in the Cryostat Workshop. It should be completed by the end of 2021. © Christian Luenig (www.arbeitsblende.de) 23 March 2021 Download Top lid enters stage The top lid will be formed from: 12 lid segments, one centre cylinder and one centre cover. In this photo, welding is performed by a specialist from MAN Energy Solutions (sub-contractor to the Indian firm Larsen & Toubro). © Christian Luenig (www.arbeitsblende.de) 23 March 2021 Download 7 segments assembled Seven of 12 segments have been assembled on the work platform—enough for us to appreciate the size and shape of the cryostat top lid.
02 March 2021 Download 12 plus 2 Specialists from MAN Energy Solutions (contractor to Larsen & Toubro, cryostat manufacturer) are finalizing the installation of the support frame, prior to starting on assembly and welding. The top lid is composed of 12 triangular segments, plus a central disk and a central lid.
09 February 2021 Download Top lid segments unveiled Perfectly aligned on the workshop floor, the major elements of the cryostat top lid will soon be positioned inside the supporting frame in the background of this photograph (the central cylinder is hidden by the frame).
09 February 2021 Download Top lid: start of assembly All of the segents of the cryostat top lid have reached ITER and the Indian Domestic Agency teams in the Cryostat Workshop can begin assembly and welding.
02 February 2021 Download Segments arriving Inside of the Cryostat Workshop, the latest top lid elements to arrive are unpacked.
14 January 2021 Download Final lid segments arriving The last segments of the 665-tonne cryostat lid (including the central disk) have arrived in France.
11 January 2021 Download In the pit Standing inside the Tokamak pit, where the welding of the cryostat lower cylinder to the cryostat base has started. A metrology instrument is visible on the tall pole at left.
15 October 2020 Download Waiting its turn Protected from humidity and the weather, the upper cylinder waits for its turn in the Tokamak pit. © Les Nouveaux Médias/SNC ENGAGE 09 October 2020 Download Two-sided welding Technicians from MAN Energy Solutions (contractor to Larsen & Toubro, the enterprise chosen by the Indian Domestic Agency to manufacture the cryostat) work by pair on the in-pit welding of the cryostat.
07 October 2020 Download The work to come The top lid will be assembled from 12 triangular segments and a central disk.
24 September 2020 Download New segments arrive The first five segments of the cryostat top lid arrived from India this week.
24 September 2020 Download Lift off The 375-tonne component is lifted by overhead crane and delivered to the Tokamak pit on the opposite side of the building.
31 August 2020 Download Successful transfer On 22 August 2020, the lower cylinder travelled the short distance from the Cryostat Workshop to the Assembly Hall.
22 August 2020 Download Second cryostat section ready for insertion The lower cylinder, which had been cocooned on the platform, is now ready for transfer into the Assembly Hall. After some light preparatory activities, it will be ready for assembly into the machine pit.
22 August 2020 Download Top lid elements, ready to ship In India, Larsen & Toubro has finalized all of the elements of the top lid (12 triangular segments plus a central disk). The segments will soon ship to ITER for assembly in the Cryostat Workshop.
30 June 2020 Download 650-tonne lid, temporarily assembled The segments of the top lid were put together at Larsen & Toubro's Hazira factory for verification, and then disassembled and packed for shipment. This brings cryostat manufacturing to an end for the Indian firm, which signed a contract back in 2012.
30 June 2020 Download Base installed Part one of the cryostat, the 1,250 base, was inserted into the machine assembly pit on 26 May 2020. The operation went as smoothly as planned.
28 May 2020 Download Preparing the base for lifting Standing inside the "dish" of the cryostat base, these employees are involved in the preparations for the "big lift," when the overhead cranes raise this 1,250-load high overhead and then travel to the Tokamak pit. As a preparatory activity, the base will be raised a few centimetres in the week to come.
06 May 2020 Download Not empty for long After the cryostat base and upper cylinder were removed from the Cryostat Workshop in mid-April, the building was empty for one week. Now, one of the machine's 18 toroidal field coils—#12, supplied by the Japanese Domestic Agency—has been moved in so that construction teams can unwrap the component and prepare it for handling and pre-assembly activities.
24 April 2020 Download Safe in the Assembly Hall The 192 wheels of the self-propelled modular transporter carried the 1,250-base carefully and successfully into the Assembly Hall. After unwrapping and preparatory works, the overhead cranes will enter into action. They were sized for this load—ITER's heaviest.
17 April 2020 Download Moved next door On Friday 17 April, the heaviest piece of the ITER machine—the cryostat base—is transferred into the ITER Assembly Hall. There, it will be prepared for the May 2020 transfer to the Tokamak Pit, where 18 ball-and-socket joints ("bearings") are waiting to receive its weight.
17 April 2020 Download Leaving home The cryostat base was assembled and welded in the Cryostat Workshop between September 2016 and early 2019. After site acceptance tests, responsibility for the component was transferred to the ITER Organization for pre-installation works such as the welding of cooling water bellows and skirt supports. Today is the first time the cryostat base will be leaving "home." 17 April 2020 Download Third completed cryostat section The cryostat upper cylinder, assembled in the Cryostat Workshop from 12 segments manufactured in India. It took less than one year to complete.
15 April 2020 Download Sisters Not far from the Cryostat Workshop, two cryostat sections are now stored—the lower cylinder (right, 375 tonnes) and the upper cylinder (left, 430 tonnes).
15 April 2020 Download Ready for the weather Further layers of plastic material will be added once the component is settled into the storage area. The synthetic skin that is formed seals the upper cylinder hermetically and protects it from weather, moisture and dust.
15 April 2020 Download On many wheels and axles The 430-tonne upper cylinder is cocooned and ready for storage outdoors. The component is transported out of the workshop by self-propelled modular transporter (SPMT).
15 April 2020 Download Second section leaves workshop The double doors of the Cryostat Workshop are open and teams are getting ready to remove the upper cylinder to storage. Its removal will allow the cryostat base to be moved out at the end of this week.
15 April 2020 Download Upper cylinder assembly accomplished Work on the upper cylinder is complete. The 430-tonne component will soon be cocooned and moved to storage outside the building.
21 February 2020 Download Cleaning operation Before cocooning the component, more than 2,500 square metres of stainless steel must be cleaned using cloth, demineralized water, a standard solvent and ... a lot of elbow grease.
21 February 2020 Download Destination for the base The last activities are underway at the bottom of the Tokamak pit to prepare for the arrival of the 1,250-tonne cryostat base. In the picture, we can distinguish three bearings (ball-and-socket joints) covered in plastic, and the different interface points along the wall.
13 February 2020 Download Cryostat base: grand opening soon The huge cryostat base section will descend from above, supported by the overhead cranes as it is lowered 30 metres to the bottom of the pit.
13 February 2020 Download Last manufacturing tasks in India At the Larsen & Toubro factory in Hazira, India, the elements of the top lid of the cryostat lid are in fabrication. These "pieces" make up the last of four main cryostat sectors (base, lower cylinder, upper cylinder, top lid). They will be shipped to ITER for assembly in the Cryostat Workshop.
25 November 2019 Download Upper cylinder advances The assembly of the 430-tonne upper cylinder is underway in India's on-site Cryostat Workshop. Contractors Larsen & Toubro (fabrication and assembly) and MAN Energy Solutions (welding) are in charge of carrying out the assembly activities. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 22 October 2019 Download Last details before the big day The completed cryostat base is being prepped for handling and insertion into the Tokamak pit, a spectacular operation that is scheduled for early April 2020. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 22 October 2019 Download Celebrating together The ITER Director-General is pictured with Praveen Bhatt, Joint General Manager for Larsen & Toubro; India's Ambassador to France, His Excellency Vinay Mohan Kwatra; and ITER's Prabhat Kumar, Deputy to the Site Construction Director.
23 July 2019 Download The hands-on team from Larsen & Toubro Over its 80 years of existence, Larsen & Toubro Ltd. has built solar and nuclear plants, ports and airports, supertankers and submarines and played a key role is putting into Mars orbit the Mangalyaan space probe. Still, there are challenges in the fabrication of the ITER cryostat that the company had never faced. This young team is at the centre of the cryostat project, including Project Manager Patel Chiarg (third from left).
23 July 2019 Download 60% complete On 23 July 2019, ITER Director-General Bernard Bigot, India's Ambassador to France Vinay Mohan Kwatra, and the former chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission of India, Anil Kakodkar, symbolically smash a bottle of French champagne on a large chunk of steel representing the ITER cryostat. Sixty percent of manufacturing has been completed, and the base and lower cylinder have been accepted by the ITER Organization.
23 July 2019 Download Gathered for a special celebration A small ceremony in the Cryostat Workshop is held for representatives of all involved parties: the ITER Organization, ITER India, Larsen & Toubro, and MAN Energy Solutions. In the background, work has begun on the upper cylinder.
23 July 2019 Download Inside of the completed base This group is standing inside of the 1,250-tonne base, which will be the first major component installed in the Tokamak Pit next year.
23 July 2019 Download Wraps off Work on the cryostat base has ended. The 1,250-tonne component, which resembles a soup dish, or an upside down hat, will remain in the Cryostat Workshop until required in the ITER machine assembly sequence.
04 July 2019 Download Fore, mid and aft In the foreground, metrologists are completing a survey of the "skirt" of the base; in the middle of the Workshop, segments of the upper cylinder, freshly arrived from India; and in the background, the assembly platform for the upper cylinder.
04 July 2019 Download Final verifications A specialist from Indian Domestic Agency contractor MAN Energy Solutions is performing a final dimensional inspection on the "holes" that will receive the bolts of the toroidal field coil and vacuum vessel gravity supports. Match up must be close to perfect.
04 July 2019 Download Interfacing with the crown This is where the cryostat base will interface with the concrete support crown of the Tokamak Pit and the bioshield inner walls. The protruding steel piece at the centre-right of the image is one of 18 "toroidal lugs" that will lock into the bioshield.
04 July 2019 Download Capitalizing on lessons learned The assembly and welding of the upper cylinder will follow more or less the pattern of work of the lower cylinder. Lessons learned are already bearing fruit: it took less than two weeks to install the first three segments (out of six) of upper cylinder tier one onto the frame.
04 July 2019 Download Work starts on upper cylinder Several of the upper cylinder's first-tier segments have already been unwrapped and installed on the assembly platform.
04 July 2019 Download Work to start to assemble the upper cylinder The assembly platform is in place for the upper cylinder and the first segments have arrived.
02 July 2019 Download Twin underway on the inside Nearly as wide as the building itself this "piece" of ITER—the cryostat lower cylinder—was moved outside of the Cryostat Workshop so that its near twin—the upper cylinder—can be aligned and welded. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 19 June 2019 Download Upside-down hat The base of the cryostat is shaped like an upside-down hat. The pedestal ring will be supported by the concrete crown at the bottom of the Tokamak Pit and, in turn, the ring will support the rest of the machine. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 18 June 2019 Download All lined up These segments have arrived from Larsen & Toubro, India, for the assembly of the upper cylinder. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 18 June 2019 Download Under wrap The lower cylinder, as seen from one of the worksite cranes. It has been safely "cocooned" and stored outside of the Cryostat Workshop to wait for its turn in the machine assembly sequence.
13 June 2019 Download Welcome: upper cylinder segments The first upper cylinder segments (tier one) have arrived in the on-site workshop. They were fabricated by Larsen & Toubro in Hazira, India, and shipped by the Indian Domestic Agency.
24 May 2019 Download Unwrapping the new arrivals Through the open doors of the workshop, we see the first unwrapped segment of the upper cylinder (tier one). In the background is the cryostat base.
23 May 2019 Download How to make a giant thermos The Cryostat Workshop was part of the site tour offered to participants of the 14th edition of the ITER Open Doors Day event. Saroj Kumar Jha, ITER Project Associate from India, provides explanations to the first group of visitors.
18 May 2019 Download Upper cylinder: settling into its new home Contractors continue to apply plastic to the cocoon of the lower cylinder. Already, though, it is well protected from the weather.
18 May 2019 Download Finalizing the cryostat base Final machining works are underway on the cryostat base. Pictured are the interface holes that have been machined in the base for one toroidal field gravity support.
30 April 2019 Download Just a short distance to travel The 375-tonne component left the building on its assembly platform, propelled by four multi-axle SPMTs (self propelled modular transporters). Everything went smoothly.
15 April 2019 Download Lower cylinder transfer On 15 April, the lower cylinder is moved out of the Cryostat Workshop to exterior storage area 73 (out of the picture frame, further to the left), where it will remain until it is time to enter the Cleaning Facility (right) for integration into the ITER machine pit.
15 April 2019 Download Careful now Shims are adjusted under every "foot" before the assembly platform is lowered to the ground and the SPMTs are removed. With the successful transfer of the lower cylinder out of the Cryostat Workshop space has been created for the assembly of a new frame to receive the elements of the cryostat upper cylinder, which ship this month from India and are expected in May on site.
15 April 2019 Download Like clockwork Participating in the transfer operation were members of the ITER Organization construction teams, ITER logistics provider DAHER, transportation specialist Sarens, ITER India and its contractor Larsen & Toubro, the European Domestic Agency and its contractor ENGAGE, and MOMENTUM—the ITER Construction Management-as-Agent contractor.
15 April 2019 Download Coordination for success Anil Kumar Bhardwaj, Cryostat Group Leader, and Patrick Petit, In-Cryostat Assembly Section Leader, watch over the transfer operation. The 12-metre tall, nearly 30-metre-wide component is one of the largest "pieces" of the ITER machine. It will be stored on the construction platform until required in the assembly sequence.
15 April 2019 Download 192 wheels A few days before the transfer, transporters were delivered and assembled. Their configuration under the 375-tonne component has been carefully planned.
12 April 2019 Download "Mothballing" Layers of synthetic thermoplastic material are "melted" together through the application of sprayable glue. The technique, called "mothballing," is designed and implemented by Cocoon Holland, a specialist in weatherproof storage solutions.
05 April 2019 Download Controlled environment Inside of the cocoon, the enclosed air will be kept constantly circulating and humidity will be maintained at a steady 38 percent—conditions that prevent the formation of corrosion or mould.
02 April 2019 Download A cocoon for the cryostat An all-weather protection system is being installed around the lower cylinder, which will move out to storage on the platform in April.
02 April 2019 Download Work continues on cryostat base The three parts of the base—lower sandwich structure, vertical shells, and top pedestal ring—are aligned and the last welding activities are underway. The base section should be finalized in July but, contrary to the lower cylinder, the 1,250-tonne base will remain inside the building to be equipped, under the ITER Organization's responsibility, with different ancillary elements (stoppers for the gravity supports, shims, bellows, etc.).
14 March 2019 Download Only a veil Scaffolding around the 10-metre-tall, 30-metre-in-diameter lower cylinder has been removed and only a veil remains. Look closely at the size of the group in the centre.
14 March 2019 Download Windows to the machine The openings in the cryostat correspond to openings in the vacuum vessel. They will permit auxiliary systems (heating, fuelling, cryogenics, diagnostics, vacuum ...) to reach the machine.
14 March 2019 Download Standing tall Representatives of the ITER Organization, which designed the cryostat and will integrate it into the machine; of the Indian Domestic Agency responsible for its procurement; of Larsen & Toubro which forged the segments; of the German company MAN Energy Solutions which performed assembly and welding gathered on 14 March to mark the completion of the lower cylinder.
14 March 2019 Download Laser mapping The 375-tonne lower cylinder will soon be enveloped in a protective cocoon that will insulate it from dust and humidity. In the meantime, metrology specialists are using 3D laser-scanning techniques to map selected areas where the component will interface with other systems (here, a port for the neutral beam injection system). Based on the precise topography of the "as built" component, the interfaces can be reverse-engineered to fit as precisely as possible.
14 March 2019 Download Lower cylinder: surveyed from every angle Metrologists perform the first "as-built" survey of a finalized ITER component.
02 March 2019 Download Lower cylinder: DONE The final tests have been carried out and the 375-tonne can officially be called "completed." Scaffolding will be removed in March.
27 February 2019 Download Well done On 27 February, guests from the Indian Domestic Agency (responsible for procuring the cryostat) and from Indian contractor Larsen & Toubro (L&T) joined the ITER Director-General, ITER Organization staff, and on-site welding specialists from MAN Energy Solutions (subcontractor to L&T) to celebrate the completion of the component.
27 February 2019 Download As we enter 2019 ...
The first welding activities on the cryostat base kicked off in 2016. Today the lower tier has been finalized, the pedestal ring is suspended above and, in between, teams are trial fitting the vertical wall segments.
10 December 2018 Download Base: final assembly stages The components of the cryostat base—the 20-metre-in-diameter bottom disk, side shells, and 30-metre-in-diameter pedestal ring—are positioned for final assembly in the Cryostat Workshop. After welding, tests and final machining, site acceptance tests will be carried out in April 2019.
10 December 2018 Download Moving out next year Upon its completion the lower cylinder will be moved out of the Cryostat Workshop to protected storage on site. That will free the assembly platform for the next activity—the assembly of the upper cylinder from steel segments shipped by India.
10 December 2018 Download Back to the base Back in August, the vertical shells had already been trial fitted on the bottom sandwich structure, inspected, and then disassembled for adjustment. One by one, the six segments are being re-positioned for final assembly.
10 December 2018 Download A generous volume The ITER Tokamak and superconducting magents will all be contained within the generous volume of the cryostat. The lower cylinder is a ten-metre-tall component that will sit on the cryostat base. The upper cylinder will in turn fit perfectly on the lower cylinder and the entire assembly will be topped off with a lid.
10 December 2018 Download Lower cylinder : ready in March The lower cylinder of the cryostat is well advanced. The last seam welds should be completed in one month, and site acceptance tests are scheduled for March.
10 December 2018 Download Welding: the name of the game In total, the Indian Domestic Agency estimates that one kilometre of full penetration weld joints will have to be carried out to exacting standards on the four sections of the cryostat in the site workshop, followed by several hundred metres of weld joints to assemble the cryostat sections in the Tokamak Pit. The cryostat chamber must be completely leak free in order to achieve high vacuum within its large volume (8,500 m³).
10 December 2018 Download A peek into the Cryostat Workshop The lower cylinder of the cryostat is seen through the open doors of the workshop.
13 November 2018 Download Destined for the cryostat Doric or ionic? Neither. What looks like broken columns from a Greek temple are in fact steel ingots, cooling on a bed of black sand inside the Larsen & Toubro foundry in Hazira, India. Weighing 6 to 200 metric tonnes, they are the raw material for the fabrication of cryostat segments.
24 October 2018 Download Visiting Larsen & Toubro On 23 October Director-General Bernard Bigot visits Larsen & Toubro's Hazira facility, where the segments of the ITER cryostat are produced.
23 October 2018 Download A prototype sector for the lid The 655-tonne top lid will be the last of four cryostat sectors to leave the Larsen & Toubro factory (in segments). Before series manufacturing began, a prototype segment was manufactured in order to check potential profile distortions. All 12 top lid segments will be ready for dispatch in the summer of 2019.
23 October 2018 Download Inside Medium Fabrication Shop #4 On their way back from lunch, workers at Larsen & Toubro's Hazira faility pass by ongoing works for the ITER cryostat inside Medium Fabrication Shop #4.
23 October 2018 Download Welds. welds and more welds Despite Larsen & Toubro's extensive experience in manufacturing for the nuclear and space industries, new processes and techniques had to be specifically developed for the welding of the cryostat segments. Pictured here: the welding of two segments for the top lid.
23 October 2018 Download Last verification Final dimensional inspection is being conducted on an upper cylinder sector for the ITER cryostat. Seven segments are packed and ready for dispatch; another two are undergoing finishing works and inspections.
23 October 2018 Download Drawing to a close A formidable industrial venture that began in 2015 is nearing its end. At the Larsen & Tourbo Hazira manufacturing complex, work is underway on the two last orders the company is filling for the ITER cryostat: segments of the 430-tonne upper cylinder and 665-tonne top lid.
23 October 2018 Download Packing is done These tier-two upper cylinder segments are being packed and conditioned for the long journey to the ITER site. In the on-site Cryostat Workshop, Larsen & Toubro contractors will weld tier-one segments first, then position tier-two segments on top. Upper cylinder segments will begin arriving at ITER in March 2019.
23 October 2018 Download Reinforced zone The asphalt in front of the Cryostat Workshop has been reinforced in order to receive the 375-tonne lower cylinder. Once completed this cryostat component will be stored in this exterior area under a protective "cocoon." 10 September 2018 Download A runway for the cryostat A section of runway-worthy tarmac has been completed in front of the Cryostat Workshop, with four times the load-bearing capacity of regular pavement. Other areas will receive the same treatment soon—for example, the road in front of the Cleaning Facility over which all components will pass.
10 August 2018 Download Flying over the base by drone Looking down on the dish-like cryostat base. The lower disk and upper rim are in place, but the vertical side walls were removed for adjustment after inspection.
24 July 2018 Download Lower cylinder 30 metres in diameter, 10 metres in height, 375 tonnes ... and 200 metres of circular and vertical welds. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 24 July 2018 Download Disassembled for now The tier-two base pieces were assembled, measured and disassembled for adjustment. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 24 July 2018 Download On the other side of the shop The 10-metre-tall lower cylinder has been completely assembled and contractors are verifying the welds. This section will be moved out of the facility next year to make room for the assembly of the upper cylinder.
18 July 2018 Download Adjusting Following inspection, the wall segments were disassembled and adjustments are being made with a high-performance plasma torch.
18 July 2018 Download Inspection underway It took approximately four weeks to verify half of the vacuum welds of the lower cylinder. Different specific ultrasonic examination probes are being used by Larsen & Toubro specialists to cover various angles and depth ranges.
18 July 2018 Download ITER—a challenge for science photography During his most recent visit to ITER, German photographer Christian Luenig covered the ongoing work on the cryostat. He captured the lower cylinder and base section with their enormous dimensions using a technique called tone mapping which combines multiple exposures with particular contrast and colour adjustments. "Like every visit to the ITER construction site, it was a real challenge," says Luenig. To see his work on ITER and fusion go to: www.arbeitsblende.de/ ©ITER Organization/Christian Luenig 23 April 2018 Download Welders in action ©ITER Organization/Christian Luenig 27 March 2018 Download Who is responsible? On the 10-metre-tall upper cylinder two banners are hung: Larsen & Toubro (ITER India contractor for manufacturing design, fabrication and assembly) and MAN Diesel & Turbo, Germany (Larsen & Toubro sub-contractor for on-site welding). ©ITER Organization/Christian Luenig 27 March 2018 Download Lower cylinder, assembled ©ITER Organization/Christian Luenig 27 March 2018 Download Scaffolding Scaffolding is set up on along the inner and outer walls of the lower cylinder, in order to weld from each side simultaneously. ©ITER Organization/Christian Luenig 27 March 2018 Download Lower cylinder: an artist's view ©ITER Organization/Christian Luenig 27 March 2018 Download Good luck! A ceremony is held in the Cryostat Workshop on 21 February to mark the start of welding on the second tier of the lower cylinder. The team is seen here inside the circle of the component breaking a coconut—an Indian tradition to bring good fortune to a new endeavour.
21 February 2018 Download Looking up Standing in the centre of the cryostat lower cylinder, looking up toward the beams of the gantry crane.
21 February 2018 Download New phase for lower cylinder Welding has started on tier two of the lower cylinder. The completed component will measure 10 metres in height and weigh 375 tonnes.
21 February 2018 Download Inside the soup plate The base section of the ITER cryostat resembles a deep soup plate. For the moment however, only the base (where two workers are standing) and the rim are in place. The vertical "walls" to connect the two will be inserted at a later stage in order to provide more flexibility for adjustments.
07 February 2018 Download The size of the pieces Nothing gives a better sense of the size of the ITER machine than the ongoing works in the Cryostat Workshop, where the the lower cylinder and base section of the cryostat are being assembled and welded under the responsibility of Indian contractor Larsen & Toubro.
07 February 2018 Download Make way for the neutral beam More than 200 penetrations, some as large as four metres in width, pierce the ITER cryostat. The one pictured here is for the neutral beam injection system, one of the heating systems that will bring the plasma to the required fusion temperature.
07 February 2018 Download Alone in the arena Stacked one upon the other, the two tiers of the cryostat's lower cylinder form a spectacular arena. Ten metres high and 30 metres in diameter, it dwarfs the lone Larsen & Toubro worker standing in the middle. Tier two segments are presently being aligned prior to welding operations. Work should be completed on this 375-tonne cryostat section this summer.
30 January 2018 Download Pedestal welding Twenty-five percent of the pedestal welding is complete. These technicians are watching the progression of the welding robot as it completes a run.
30 January 2018 Download Unpacked in the workshop The first tier-two segments of the lower cylinder have been unpacked in the Cryostat Workshop. These 5-metre-tall segments will be installed on top of the tier-one segments, making a 10-metre-tall component.
06 December 2017 Download Ten metres tall Second-tier elements have been installed and the lower cylinder now measures 10 metres in height. In the foreground are elements stored for the base of the cryostat.
27 November 2017 Download Work begins on the upper part of the base In November, a traditional "coconut ceremony" heralds the start of welding operations on the base section tier two—a 750-tonne sub-component whose pedestal will support the combined mass of the Tokamak and cryostat (23,000 tonnes).
16 November 2017 Download Impressive work, frequent visitors Small groups of visitors to the Cryostat Workshop can be taken out onto tier one of the cryostat base (covered in purple). From there they have a good view on the work to come: welding the tier-two segments, including the heavy rim (shown above their heads here).
10 November 2017 Download Open on an October day Looking out an open door in the Cryostat Workshop.
17 October 2017 Download Upper rim of the base The upper rim of the cryostat base has been installed over the completed lower disk. Work is underway to carefully align the segments.
12 October 2017 Download Lower cylinder: waiting for tier two The lower cylinder will weigh 375 tonnes and measure 10 metres in height when tier two is added to tier one. Indian contractor Larsen & Toubro is responsible for the manufacturing design, fabrication and assembly of the ITER cryostat.
12 October 2017 Download Act II for the cryostat base Welding on the first part of the cryostat base (seen here wrapped in purple) has been successfully completed. Seen directly above, from the inside, is the rim of the six tier two segments that have been carefully aligned.
12 October 2017 Download A giant ring In the Cryostat Workshop on site, two sections of the cryostat are now under assembly. Here, the team stands inside the ring of the lower cylinder, tier one (30 metres in diameter). An initial pass of the welding tools has all segments now joined; the second tier segments—en route now from India—will top the first, creating a 10-metre-high structure.
12 October 2017 Download The heaviest component The six segments of the cryostat base, tier two, have been removed from storage and positioned on pillars above tier one for alignment and welding. The completed cryostat base will create the heaviest single component of the ITER machine ... and one that the Assembly Hall cranes have been sized for.
12 October 2017 Download A pedestal for the machine When machine assembly is completed, it won't be a worker sitting here, but the Tokamak itself. These pedestal rings (part of tier two of the cryostat base) will support over 20,000 tonnes of dead weight, including the other cryostat sections, the vacuum vessel and magnets. Pictured here, a technician from Larsen & Toubro contractor MAN is taking precise measurements to align the segments of the base section (tier two).
12 October 2017 Download Seen in profile The upper part of the cryostat base is seen here in profile, with its wide rim and its interior curved structure.
11 October 2017 Download A lot of weld material A close-up of the weld gap between two lower cylinder segments. If the camera were to zoom out, we'd see that this V-shape gap is 5 metres high and that there are six welds to realize in total.
29 August 2017 Download A mega component Tier one of the cryostat lower cylinder is now assembled and readied for welding. Standing on the scaffolding of the sub-component, which is 30 metres in diameter, workers appear tiny. (Look closely!) 29 August 2017 Download Being exact In order to reach the required precision in positioning the segments, the most sophisticated technologies alternate with the most basic tools. ITER cryostat engineer Guillaume Vitupier is seen here next to the manual screw jacks used to fine-tune the segments' alignment.
29 August 2017 Download Hard to see Hidden behind all of the scaffolding is the lower cylinder of the cryostat, tier one. A second tier will bring the lower cylinder's height to 10 metres. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 23 August 2017 Download Seen from the outside In this 6,000-square-metre building, Larsen & Toubro (contractor to the Indian Domestic Agency) is charged with the fabrication of the ITER cryostat. Work is underway now on the first two segments, the base and the lower cylinder. Photo: ITER Organization/EJF Riche 21 August 2017 Download Wow! This group of visitors throws the size of the cryostat lower cylinder into perspective ...
21 August 2017 Download Open sesame! The 30-metre doors to the Workshop are open, giving us an original angle on work underway on the lower cylinder (tier one). The finish component will exit these doors.
17 August 2017 Download Big Foot The assembly platforms are raised so that welders can have access to the underside of the components.
07 July 2017 Download Laser and level Tolerance control in the assembly of the 60-tonne segments is achieved using sophisticated laser alignment and metrology equipment ... and also a standard spirit level.
07 July 2017 Download A crowded place Cryostat base section at one end, lower cylinder at the other, and storage in between. The 110-metre-long Cryostat Workshop is a crowded and busy place with work progressing in parallel on two main cryostat sections.
07 July 2017 Download Dedicated handling tools For Larsen & Toubro, the Indian contractor responsible for the fabrication of the ITER cryostat, carrying out its contract means not only machining the pieces in India, but also creating a dedicated assembly facility on the ITER site and equipping it with specialized handling tools and assembly platforms. Pictured: the lift beam and clamps for positioning the thin-walled segments of the lower cylinder.
07 July 2017 Download A steel ring pierced with openings A tall steel ring pierced with dozens of openings—some perfectly circular, some rectangular with rounded angles, a few as high and wide as a cathedral door. This is tier one of the cryostat lower cylinder.
07 July 2017 Download Carefully now ...
Workers from MAN Diesel and Turbo, the German contractor responsible for assembly and welding, carefully manoeuvre one of the six 60-tonne lower cylinder segments into position on the assembly frame. The second-tier segments will come later, creating a 10-metre-tall component.
07 July 2017 Download A manhole in a thin wall Relative to the size of the segment, the 50-millimetre thick stainless steel plate appears rather thin. Under the openings in this photo is a an access door that will be used for inspection and maintenance inside the cryostat before the beginning of nuclear operations.
07 July 2017 Download A perfect fit The 60-degree segments of the lower cylinder (tier one) are installed on a tall assembly frame.
04 July 2017 Download Glowing The early sunlight leaves red highlights on the steel components.
03 July 2017 Download Making things just right An optical metrology device is used to verify the alignment of the 60-degree tier 1 segments.
03 July 2017 Download Second assembly frame going up In the Cryostat Workshop, a 10-metre-tall assembly platform is being installed to receive the segments of the lower cylinder.
20 June 2017 Download Working from below A welder from MAN Diesel & Turbo, Germany, works on the underside of the cryostat base.
13 June 2017 Download Resting horizontally, for now Seen resting horizontally, one of the segments of the lower cylinder (tier two) in the Indian factory. Each large opening corresponds to an equivalent opening in the vacuum vessel.
09 June 2017 Download Preparing other segments Back in India, in the Hazira factory of Larsen & Toubro, work is underway on the tier-two segments of the lower cylinder.
08 June 2017 Download Off with the covers For the first time, we see one of the lower cylinder segments without its cover.
01 June 2017 Download Preparing to assemble the next cryostat section In one half of the workshop welding and testing is underway on the base of the cryostat. Now, in the other half, technicians are constructing the assembly platform that will be used for the next segment—the lower cylinder.
01 June 2017 Download Completed disk Seen from above, the completed tier one base section (20 metres in diameter) on its assembly/transport frame.
27 April 2017 Download Standing in wait The elements of lower cylinder tier 1 are stored on, or next to, a second assembly platform. Fabrication is underway in India on the second tier segments..
27 April 2017 Download Welding the pie Welding is underway on bottom plates that will "close" the base section, tier one. Each of the six ''pie-shaped'' segments of the base has three bottom plates.
27 April 2017 Download Arrival in workshop All six segments of the cryostat lower cylinder (tier 1) are now stored in the Cryostat Workshop.
05 April 2017 Download Checking each step in the process The elements of the cryostat machined in India—large and small—are assembled in the on-site workshop by Indian Domestic Agency contractors.
04 April 2017 Download Inside the workshop Behind the technicians a few of the lower cylinder elements are visible, covered in red tarp.
04 April 2017 Download A steel canopy Our photograph went under the cryostat base to snap this shot.
04 April 2017 Download Four more to come Four other lower cylinder segments await transport in Fos-sur-Mer, after arriving from India.
13 March 2017 Download Next steps for the cryostat Segments of the cryostat lower cylinder are stored in the Cryostat Workshop.
10 March 2017 Download Indian ambassador visits Cryostat Workshop His Excellency Mohan Kumar (second from right), India's Ambassador to France and the Principality of Monaco, makes a stop in the Cryostat Workshop during a visit to ITER on 10 March.
10 March 2017 Download Second assembly frame While welding and testing activities continue on the base of the cryostat, a second assembly platform has been shipped to the Cryostat Workshop for the start of activities on the lower cylinder.
28 February 2017 Download First lower cylinder segments On 28 February, the first element of the lower cylinder arrived on site in the Cryostat Workshop. Five others are stored at the French port of Fos-sur-Mer and will arrive in the weeks to come.
28 February 2017 Download Another assembly platform to be installed in Workshop Once all six segments of the lower cylinder have arrived and passed inspection, they will be installed on the lower cylinder fabrication frame—the second in the Workshop—to be assembled and welded.
28 February 2017 Download Giant Erector set Cryostat base segments (tier 2) are stored in the Cryostat Workshop until needed for assembly.
24 February 2017 Download Long seams Submerged arc welding is used to close a seven-metre seam on the top plate of the cryostat base. Six of these welds have been completed.
11 January 2017 Download Radiographic testing underway Radiographic testing is underway in the Cryostat Workshop on the first cryostat welds. Here, workers implement lead shielding panels before a testing series begins.
19 December 2016 Download First films Having a first look at the radiographic testing films.
16 December 2016 Download Result quality verified Checking the density of the radiographic testing films.
16 December 2016 Download Test equipment verified Some of the radiographic test equipment is verified before work gets underway. Radiographic testing detects the presence of flaws that could challenge the structural integrity of the welds.
22 November 2016 Download Helium leak testing Specialists in leak detection test the first welds of the cryostat base (tier 1). Metre by metre, each weld will be verified.
07 November 2016 Download Checking for defects In helium leak testing, helium injected into the leak tight box below one metre of weld will be detectable on the other side by mass spectrometer—if a crack exists.
07 November 2016 Download A welding robot Eyes riveted to their control screen, welders from the German firm MAN Diesel & Turbo, contractor to Larsen & Toubro, closely monitor the quality of the welds as a welding robot progresses along the gap between two pedestal plates. The gap is approximately 20 millimetres wide and 200 millimetres deep and requires dozens of "passes" to be filled.
07 November 2016 Download All base pieces have reached the Cryostat Workshop The last segments of the cryostat base—three 120-tonne components for tier-2—were delivered in October.
21 October 2016 Download 9,000 km later Loaded at the port of Hazira, on the west coast of India, the last cryostat segments travelled 9,000 km to reach ITER.
21 October 2016 Download A multifunctional platform Welding activities kicked off once the different cryostat segments were positioned and aligned on this giant platform. Once the cryostat base is completely assembled, the platform will serve as a transporter.
08 September 2016 Download See one, but there may be two! Often the gap between two segments is filled simultaneously by welders working above and below. The minimum weld thickness for the base section is 25 mm.
08 September 2016 Download A ceremony to perform first Cryostat welding gets off to an auspicious start as ITER Director-General Bernard Bigot performs the coconut ceremony that calls on the protection of Ganesh, "Remover of Obstacles." 08 September 2016 Download One you see one you don't Welders work in pairs. For every welder above the 50 millimetre gap that has to be filled by welding there is another one below.
08 September 2016 Download Welding begins! A ceremony on 8 September marks the beginning of cryostat welding activities. Behind the crowd, a welder awaits on the first tier of the cryostat base.
08 September 2016 Download Preparing for assembly Dimensional checks are carried out on the three cryostat segments already installed on the assembly platform.
27 July 2016 Download Aligning the pieces Six 50-tonne triangular segments form tier 1 of the cryostat base. They are positioned on the assembly frame in the Cryostat Workshop in preparation for welding activities.
27 July 2016 Download First lifts The first elements of the cryostat base are transported by gantry crane on to the assembly platform. Welding activities are scheduled to start in September.
25 July 2016 Download The frame is ready, welding can begin This 34-metre-wide frame will serve as a support platform while the cryostat base segments are welded together. It will also serve as a transport platform when the completed base section travels out of the workshop.
08 July 2016 Download Segments arriving Three large 60° segments of the ITER cryostat base (tier 2) arrive on site for delivery to the Cryostat Workshop.
24 June 2016 Download More in June Three more base section segments have arrived on site. The 60-degree, 120-tonne sections form half of Tier 2 of the cryostat base.
24 June 2016 Download Frame to be assembled 30 x 30 metre steel frames will be used as assembly platforms and transporters for the completed cryostat sections. They first frame segments arrived in June.
16 June 2016 Download Assembly frame arrives in batches Welding activities will take place on large steel frames that act first as assembly platforms and later as support fixtures that interface with the transport vehicles. The frames are arriving in pieces from India for assembly in the Cryostat Workshop.
16 June 2016 Download Full shipment received Some 460 tonnes of components are now stored in the Cryostat Workshop: six 19-tonne shells and six 60° base sections.
18 December 2015 Download Unloaded, delivered, unwrapped...
Shaped like so many slices of pie, these three 60° segments are the first pieces of the cryostat to arrive on site.
11 December 2015 Download Plenty of storage space The segments will be stored in the Cryostat Workshop until welding operations begin in the summer of 2016.
10 December 2015 Download With the help of the gantry crane On 10 December 2015, the first cryostat segments were unloaded in the Cryostat Workshop. Each segment weighs close to 50 tonnes.
10 December 2015 Download Part of the cryostat base Procured by India and manufactured at Larsen & Toubro Ltd's Hazira plant, the six 60-degree segments will form Tier 1 (460 tonnes) of the cryostat base (1,250 tonnes).
10 December 2015 Download Final photo opportunity Behind the group is the final section of the cryostat: the 665-tonne top lid, considered to be the most complex of the cryostat sections due to its 3D profile.
Download Click for full screen 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 ' + currentmenu.text() + ' Construction Projects underway Tokamak Complex Site infrastructure Control Building Neutral Beam Power Supply Construction Archives Assembly Building Cryoplant Cooling Tower Area Radio Frequency Building Cryostat Workshop ITER Headquarters Magnet power conversion PF Coils Facility Site preparation Tokamak Excavation Tokamak Foundations NEUTRAL BEAM TEST FACILITY Component transport On-site fabrication Poloidal field coils Cryostat (completed) Photo Medley 3D VIRTUAL TOUR On-site fabrication: cryostat On-site fabrication: cryostat The cryostat is a vacuum-tight container that will completely surround the machine and provide an ultra-cool vacuum environment for the vacuum vessel and superconducting magnets.
Putting it together In the Cryostat Workshop, contractors to the Indian Domestic Agency assembled and welded the four cryostat sections—the base, lower cylinder, upper cylinder, and top lid. The 665-tonne top lid (photo) was completed in March 2022.
Number of segments fabricated in India : 54 Sections assembled on site : cryostat base, lower cylinder, upper cylinder, top lid Length of weld joints for in-workshop assembly (four sections): ~ 1,015 m Length of weld lines (passages): 50 km Welding wire: 1,500 km (17 tonnes) Length of weld joints for in-pit assembly : ~ 390 m Diameter of sections : 30 metres (approximate) Weight of each section : base: 1,250 tonnes; lower cylinder: 375 tonnes; upper cylinder: 430 tonnes; lid: 665 tonnes Start of welding activities : 2016 Completed sections: lower cylinder, March 2019; cryostat base, June 2019; cryostat upper cylinder, March 2020; cryostat lid, March 2022 Installed in Tokamak pit : cryostat base, May 2020; cryostat lower cylinder, August 2020 Procurement responsibility : India Contractors : Larsen & Toubro Heavy Engineering Division, India (manufacturing design, fabrication and assembly); MAN Energy Solutions, Germany (Larsen & Toubro sub-contractor for on-site welding); SPIE Batignolles TPCI, France (Larsen & Toubro sub-contractor for the realization of the Cryostat Workshop) Cryostat top lid | Big muscle for a huge load Cryostat top lid | Wrap it tight and let it rest Cryostat completion | An exceptional, yearslong industrial adventure Cryostat top lid | Last checks before wrapping Manufacturing | Like a fire-breathing dragon Image of the week | First weld for the top lid Cryostat Workshop | Top lid enters the stage Component deliveries | 50th mammoth convoy in 6 years Image of the week | 5 top lid segments expected Top management | Nalinish Nagaich, Head of Corporate Industrial milestone | Cryostat manufacturing comes to an end in India Cryostat manufacturing | The week the workshop emptied Cryostat base | Grand opening soon A "magic moment" | Cryostat 60% complete Lower cylinder | A transfer that felt like art Cryostat | Lower cylinder revealed Cryostat lower cylinder | Our own Stonehenge Cryostat | Home stretch for base and lower cylinder Manufacturing | In the cradle of the cryostat Cryostat Workshop | Lower cylinder and base take shape Cryostat base | And now tier two Cryostat lower cylinder: readied for welding Cryostat lower cylinder now on stage Cracks in welds? Helium will tell Cryostat welding begins FOR THE PUBLIC Jobs About ITER FAQs Photos Visits Education Donate/Sponsor FOR THE PRESS All News Welcome Facts and Figures ITER Milestones Press Releases Fusion Glossary FOR SCIENTISTS ITPA Fusion Links Conferences How to Publish ITER Technical Reports ITER International School FOR INDUSTRY Procurement Intellectual Property Foreign Workers in France Business Events INTRANET Intranet Sitemap Terms of use Privacy Policy © 2023, ITER Organization ITER Assembly Live Event - 28 JULY The event will be live-streamed, in three parts (all times listed are French local times): 10:00 a.m. — Tour of the ITER worksite and large components on site 11:00 a.m. — Ceremony, including statements by world leaders 12:30 a.m. (or following the ceremony) — Press conference
