Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Tom Simonite Business As the Use of AI Spreads, Congress Looks to Rein It In Illustration: Elena Lacey; Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Application Face recognition End User Government Sector Public safety Source Data Images Sensors Technology Machine vision There’s bipartisan agreement in Washington that the US government should do more to support development of artificial intelligence technology. The Trump administration redirected research funding toward AI programs; President Biden’s science adviser Eric Lander said of AI last month that “America’s economic prosperity hinges on foundational investments in our technological leadership.” At the same time, parts of the US government are working to place limits on algorithms to prevent discrimination, injustice, or waste. The White House , lawmakers from both parties, and federal agencies including the Department of Defense and the National Institute for Standards and Technology are all working on bills or projects to constrain potential downsides of AI.
Biden’s Office of Science and Technology Policy is working on addressing the risks of discrimination caused by algorithms.
 The National Defense Authorization Act passed in January introduced new support for AI projects, including a new White House office to coordinate AI research, but also required the Pentagon to assess the ethical dimensions of AI technology it acquires, and NIST to develop standards to keep the technology in check.
In the past three weeks, the Government Accountability Office, which audits US government spending and management and is known as Congress’ watchdog, released two reports warning that federal law enforcement agencies aren’t properly monitoring the use and potential errors of algorithms used in criminal investigations. One took aim at face recognition , the other at forensic algorithms for face, fingerprint, and DNA analysis; both were prompted by lawmaker requests to examine potential problems with the technology. A third GAO report laid out guidelines for responsible use of AI in government projects.
Helen Toner, director of strategy at Georgetown’s Center for Security and Emerging Technology, says the bustle of AI activity provides a case study of what happens when Washington wakes up to new technology.
“As this technology is being used in the real world you get problems that you need policy and government responses to.” Helen Toner, director of strategy, Georgetown Center for Security and Emerging Technology In the mid-2010s, lawmakers didn’t pay much notice as researchers and tech companies brought about a rapid increase in the capabilities and use of AI, from conquering champs at Go to ushering smart speakers into kitchens and bedrooms. The technology became a mascot for US innovation, and a talking point for some tech-centric lawmakers. Now the conversations have become more balanced and business-like, Toner says. “As this technology is being used in the real world you get problems that you need policy and government responses to.” Face recognition , the subject of GAO’s first AI report of the summer, has drawn special focus from lawmakers and federal bureaucrats. Nearly two dozen US cities have banned local government use of the technology, usually citing concerns about accuracy, which studies have shown is often worse on people with darker skin.
The GAO’s report on the technology was requested by six Democratic representatives and senators, including the chairs of the House oversight and judiciary committees. It found that 20 federal agencies that employ law enforcement officers use the technology, with some using it to identify people suspected of crimes during the January 6 assault on the US Capitol, or the protests after the killing of George Floyd by Minneapolis police in 2020.
Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Business Who Is Mira Murati, OpenAI’s New Interim CEO? Steven Levy Fourteen agencies sourced their face recognition technology from outside the federal government—but 13 did not track what systems their employees used. The GAO advised agencies to keep closer tabs on face recognition systems to avoid the potential for discrimination or privacy invasion.
The GAO report appears to have increased the chances of bipartisan legislation constraining government use of face recognition. At a hearing of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security held Tuesday to chew over the GAO report, Representative Sheila Jackson Lee (D–Texas), the subcommittee chair, said that she believed it underscored the need for regulations. The technology is currently unconstrained by federal legislation. Ranking member Representative Andy Biggs (R–Arizona) agreed. “I have enormous concerns, the technology is problematic and inconsistent,” he said. “If we’re talking about finding some kind of meaningful regulation and oversight of facial recognition technology then I think we can find a lot of common ground.” GAO dug deeper on law enforcement technology in its report on forensic algorithms , requested by bipartisan members of the House, including the chairs of the oversight and science, space, and technology committees. The agency said that algorithms for face recognition, latent fingerprint analysis, and DNA profiling from degraded or mixed samples can help investigators. But the report also suggested lawmakers support new standards on training and appropriate use of such algorithms to avoid errors and increase transparency in criminal justice.
Representative Mark Takano (D–California), among the lawmakers who requested the report, says it provided a window into the fallibility of forensic algorithms. “Everything from the data input, to the design of the algorithm, to the testing of it can lead to disparate outcomes for people in the real world,” he says.
In April , Takano reintroduced a bill drafted in 2019 that would direct NIST to establish standards and a testing program for forensic algorithms, and prohibit use of trade secrets to prevent criminal defense teams from accessing source code of algorithms used to process evidence.
The GAO’s third AI-related report, specifying guidelines on responsible use of AI for federal agencies, was initiated by the agency itself in anticipation of rapid growth in government AI projects.
GAO chief data scientist Taka Ariga says the report aims to explain to government agencies and AI suppliers in the private sector the acceptable standards for the testing, security, and privacy of AI systems and data used to create them. Future audits of government AI projects will draw on the document’s criteria, he says. “We want to make sure we’re asking the accountability questions now because our job is going to get more difficult when we encounter AI systems that are more capable,” Ariga says.
Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Business Who Is Mira Murati, OpenAI’s New Interim CEO? Steven Levy Despite the recent efforts of lawmakers and officials like Ariga, some policy experts say the US agencies and Congress still need to invest more in adapting to the age of AI.
In a recent report, Georgetown’s CSET outlined scary but plausible “AI accidents” to encourage lawmakers to work more urgently on AI safety research and standards. Its hypothetical disasters included a skin cancer app misdiagnosing Black people at higher rates, leading to unnecessary deaths, or mapping apps steering drivers into the path of wildfires.
The Brookings Institution’s director of governance studies, Darrell West, recently called for the revival of the Office of Technology Assessment, shut down 25 years ago, to provide lawmakers with independent research on new technologies such as AI.
Members of Congress from both parties have attempted to bring back the OTA in recent years. They include Takano, who says it could help Congress be more proactive in tackling challenges raised by algorithms. “We need OTA or something like it to help members anticipate where technology is going to challenge democratic institutions, or the justice system, or political stability,” he says.
📩 The latest on tech, science, and more: Get our newsletters ! This ride-hailing legend tried to outfox the gig economy The case for orc wizards— and playing RPGs “wrong” Miami's tower collapse and humanity's fight for the future America's “smart city” didn't get much stronger How researchers hacked ATMs by waving a phone 👁️ Explore AI like never before with our new database 🎮 WIRED Games: Get the latest tips, reviews, and more 📱 Torn between the latest phones? Never fear—check out our iPhone buying guide and favorite Android phones Senior Editor X Topics artificial intelligence government face recognition algorithms congress Policy Regulation Khari Johnson Will Bedingfield Peter Guest Khari Johnson Will Knight Niamh Rowe Khari Johnson Will Knight Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
