Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Artificial intelligence 3 weeks Rogue superintelligence and merging with machines: Inside the mind of OpenAI’s chief scientist The Biggest Questions : a mini-series about wonder Biotechnology and health 2 days The Biggest Questions: What is death? Space 3 days The Biggest Questions: Why is the universe so complex and beautiful? Biotechnology and health 4 days The Biggest Questions: Is it possible to really understand someone else’s mind? Biotechnology and health 5 days The Biggest Questions: How did life begin? Space 6 days The Biggest Questions: Are we alone in the universe? Artificial intelligence 1 day This company is building AI for African languages Artificial intelligence 2 days Text-to-image AI models can be tricked into generating disturbing images Climate change and energy 3 days What’s coming next for fusion research The latest from The Checkup : Our weekly biotech and health email The pain is real. The painkillers are virtual reality.
I hate needles. I am a grown woman who owns a Buzzy , a vibrating, bee-shaped device you press against your arm to confuse your nerves and thus reduce pain during blood draws. I once was so anxious a nurse gave me a n iPad so I could watch Moana while getting blood taken.
That’s why I was so excited to read about Smileyscope , a VR device for kids that recently received FDA clearance.
 It helps lessen the pain of a blood draw or IV insertion by sending the user on an underwater adventure that begins with a welcome from an animated character called Poggles the Penguin. Inside this watery deep-sea reality, the cool swipe of an alcohol wipe becomes cool waves washing over the arm. The pinch of the needle becomes a gentle fish nibble.
Studies suggest the device works.
 In two clinical trials that included more than 200 children aged 4 to 11, the Smileyscope reduced self-reported pain levels by up to 60% and anxiety levelsby up to 40%.
But how Smileyscope works is not entirely clear. It’s more complex than just distraction. Back in the 1960s, Ronald Melzack and Patrick Wall posited that pain signals travel through a series of “gates” in the spinal cord that allow some to reach the brain and keep others out. When the brain is occupied by other stimuli, the gates close and fewer pain signals can get through. “And that's the mechanism of action for virtual reality,” says Paul Leong, chief medical officer and co-founder of Smileyscope.
Not all stimuli are equally effective. “[In] traditional virtual reality you put on the headset and you go somewhere like a beach,” Leong says. But that kind of immersive experience has nothing to do with what’s happening in the real world. Smileyscope aims to reframe the stimuli in a positive light. Mood and anxiety can also affect how we process pain. Poggles the Penguin takes kids on a thorough walk-through of a procedure before it begins, which might reduce anxiety. And experiencing an underwater adventure with “surprise visitors” is undoubtedly more of a mood-booster than staring at clinic walls, waiting for a needle prick.
“There are a lot of ways to distract people,” says Beth Darnall, a psychologist and director of the Stanford Pain Relief Innovations Lab. But the way Smileyscope goes about it, she says, is “really powerful.” Researchers have been working on similar technologies for years. Hunter Hoffman and David Patterson at the University of Washington developed a VR game called SnowWorld over two decades ago to help people with severe burns tolerate wound dressing changes and other painful procedures. “We created a world that was the antithesis of fire,” Hoffman told NPR in 2012, “a cool place, snowmen, pleasant images, just about everything to keep them from thinking about fire.” Other groups are exploring VR for postoperative pain, childbirth, pain associated with dental procedures, and more.
Companies are also working on virtual reality devices that will address a much tougher problem: chronic pain. In 2021 RelieVRx became the first VR therapy authorized by the FDA for pain. (The FDA keeps a list of all authorized VR/AR devices.) The tool aims to teach people how to manage chronic pain, which is entirely different from the temporary sting of a needle stick. “It’s vastly more complex on every level,” says Darnall, who helped develop RelieVRx and now serves as ​​chief science advisor for AppliedVR, which markets the device.
Chronic pain is long term, and often life altering. “You have now literal changes in your nervous system as a consequence of experiencing pain long term,” Darnall says. “You have stored tension, you have maybe persistent anxiety, your activity levels have changed, you have sleep problems.” The alarm bell rings long after the danger has passed, for months, years, or even decades.
With RelieVRx, the intention isn’t to distract, it’s to teach pain relief strategies that physicians already know work, such as mindfulness, cognitive-behavioral therapy, and relaxation. “We are helping people unlearn some physiologically hardwired pain processes that over time become unhelpful,” Darnell says. “It’s fundamentally skills-based.” Patients use the device six minutes a day for eight weeks, and that seems to be enough for many of them to acquire skills to manage their own pain. At three months, 30% were still experiencing a reduction in pain intensity.
RelieVRx has another benefit, too: it’s meant for home use. That means people don’t necessarily have to schedule appointments with a therapist to receive behavioral pain treatment, which makes therapy more accessible. “It’s dismantling barriers to this type of effective nonpharmacologic care,” Darnall says. That’s good news for the 50 million people in the US who experience chronic pain that can’t be controlled with medication. It’s one more option for a condition that is notoriously tough to treat.
VR won’t be a panacea for people with chronic pain or for anxious kids who need shots, and it’s not risk-free. It can cause nausea, headaches, and motion sickness. But the technology could prove exceedingly useful for some people. People like me.
Providing patients with an escape during painful procedures may not seem like a medical necessity. In most cases, the procedure can be performed successfully either way. But pain is powerful, and a patient’s experience can directly influence future interactions with the medical system. “These experiences in childhood are really sentinel to developing behaviors in later life,” Leong says. “Every time you have a needle, that’s an opportunity for something to go well, or terribly. And if it goes terribly, the next time you go back you’re dreading it.” That dread can have serious ramifications. Maybe you stop going to the clinic, or you avoid getting treatment. In fact, Leong founded Smileyscope because he had a patient with cystic fibrosis who had been so traumatized by the medical procedures he received as a child that he had “disengaged with care,” he says. The man wanted Leong to put him under anesthesia just to have a routine blood draw. “And I just thought, there’s got to be a better way,” he says.
Now, there just might be.
Read more from Tech Review’s archive Long before AppliedVR had a device authorized to address chronic pain, Rachel Metz covered the company’s efforts.
Could virtual reality “forest bathing” mimic the health impacts of actually spending time in a forest? Some scientists think so, reports Charlie Metcalfe.
Using virtual reality to relax during surgery may reduce the need for anesthetic. Rhiannon Williams has the story.
From around the web Big milestone: The UK has approved the world’s first CRISPR gene editing therapy to treat two blood disorders. ( Reuters ) A special gene editing technique called base editing has been used to alter DNA in humans in an attempt to lower cholesterol. Verve Therapeutics presented interim trial results at a meeting of the American Heart Association over the weekend. The data suggest that the therapy holds promise but also raised safety concerns. ( Nature ) Here’s a new worry about ChatGPT: data manipulation. The latest version put together a startlingly accurate fake dataset that made one type of eye surgery appear much more effective than another. ( MedPage Today ) Why high lead levels have been found in pouches of cinnamon applesauce is still a mystery, but the CDC says 22 children have high lead levels in their blood as a result. ( CNN ) Sign up to get The Checkup weekly in your inbox.
Most Popular Previous slide Next slide Artificial intelligence This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI The tool, called Nightshade, messes up training data in ways that could cause serious damage to image-generating AI models.
Biotechnology and health Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Artificial wombs are nearing human trials. But the goal is to save the littlest preemies, not replace the uterus.
Culture How to fix the internet If we want online discourse to improve, we need to move beyond the big platforms.
Climate change and energy Think that your plastic is being recycled? Think again.
Plastic is cheap to make and shockingly profitable. It’s everywhere. And we’re all paying the price.
Computing What’s next for the world’s fastest supercomputers Scientists have begun running experiments on Frontier, the world’s first official exascale machine, while facilities worldwide build other machines to join the ranks.
Highlights Culture 3 weeks What are the hardest problems in tech we should be more focused on as a society? We asked prominent people in their field to weigh in on the underserved issues at the intersection of technology and society. Here's what they said.
Artificial intelligence How Facebook went all in on AI In an excerpt from Broken Code: Inside Facebook and the Fight to Expose its Harmful Secrets , Jeff Horwitz reveals how the company came to rely on artificial intelligence.
Climate change and energy 15 Climate Tech Companies to Watch Artificial intelligence Minds of machines: The great AI consciousness conundrum Philosophers, cognitive scientists, and engineers are grappling with what it would take for AI to become conscious.
Biotechnology and health Some deaf children in China can hear after gene therapy treatment After deafness treatment, Yiyi can hear her mother and dance to the music. But why is it so noisy at night? Policy Three things to know about the White House’s executive order on AI Experts say its emphasis on content labeling, watermarking, and transparency represents important steps forward.
Magazine November/December 2023 The Hard Problems issue Climate change and energy Think that your plastic is being recycled? Think again.
Plastic is cheap to make and shockingly profitable. It’s everywhere. And we’re all paying the price.
Artificial intelligence Minds of machines: The great AI consciousness conundrum Philosophers, cognitive scientists, and engineers are grappling with what it would take for AI to become conscious.
Policy Government technology is famously bad. It doesn’t have to be.
New York City is fixing the relationship between government and technology–and not in the ways you’d expect.
Space Inside NASA’s bid to make spacecraft as small as possible When it comes to exploring the solar system, we must grapple with the hard limits of physics.
Generative AI deployment: Strategies for smooth scaling Our global poll examines key decision points for putting AI to use in the enterprise.
In association with Adobe, EY, Owkin MIT News All the latest from MIT News, the alumni magazine of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Previous slide Next slide Feature Story Tapping into the ocean to combat climate change Chloe Dean, a grad student in the MIT–Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution joint program, is working to help harness the power of the ocean to safely sequester carbon.
77 Mass Ave AI-tocracy The Chinese government has enhanced its power—and the country’s tech sector—by using AI-based facial recognition to help stifle dissent.
Feature Story Superhero U From the invincible Iron Man to the diabolical Doctor Octopus, Marvel’s mightiest characters share ties to the Institute. Here’s why.
77 Mass Ave Energy-storing concrete A mix of cheap, abundant materials could hold electricity from wind or solar in foundations or roads.
77 Mass Ave Low-power underwater communication A battery-free system could send signals across kilometer-scale distances to aid climate monitoring and more.
77 Mass Ave A clever shield against photo fakery AI makes it easy to tamper with images online, but an MIT-built system subtly alters them to foil the manipulation.
Alumni profile The tale of a carbon wrangler Julio Friedmann ’88, SM ’90 Our popular explainer series Previous slide Next slide Policy Three things to know about the White House’s executive order on AI Experts say its emphasis on content labeling, watermarking, and transparency represents important steps forward.
Biotechnology and health Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Artificial wombs are nearing human trials. But the goal is to save the littlest preemies, not replace the uterus.
Climate change and energy Here’s what we know about hurricanes and climate change More rainfall and intensifying storms are hallmarks of rising temperatures, but questions remain about some links between extreme storms and climate change.
Business China just fought back in the semiconductor exports war. Here’s what you need to know.
The country aims to restrict the supply of gallium and germanium, two materials used in computer chips and other products. But experts say it won’t have the desired impact.
Climate change and energy Here’s what we know about lab-grown meat and climate change Cultivated meat is coming to the US. Whether it’ll clean up emissions from food is complicated.
Artificial intelligence Our quick guide to the 6 ways we can regulate AI Let us walk you through all the most (and least) promising efforts to govern AI around the world.
Biotechnology and health How do fungi communicate? Each fungus may “speak” with many other species— and it turns out they have a lot to say.
Climate change and energy Everything you need to know about the wild world of heat pumps Heat pumps could help address climate change and save you money. Here’s how they work.
Culture How to log off Sick of spending all your time staring at your devices? Here’s how to strike a healthier balance.
Climate change and energy How did China come to dominate the world of electric cars? From generous government subsidies to support for lithium batteries, here are the keys to understanding how China managed to build a world-leading industry in electric vehicles.
The Feed You've seen 38 stories, or 0.09% of our archive The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
