Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Andy Greenberg Security Free App Lets the Next Snowden Send Big Files Securely and Anonymously Onionshare creator Micah Lee, who works as a staff technologist and crypto guru for Glenn Greenwald's news site The Intercept.
Image: Courtesy of Micah Lee Save this story Save Save this story Save When Glenn Greenwald discovered last year that some of the NSA documents he'd received from Edward Snowden had been corrupted, he needed to retrieve copies from fellow journalist Laura Poitras in Berlin. They decided the safest way to transfer the sizable cache was to use a USB drive carried by hand to Greenwald's home in Brazil. As a result, Greenwald’s partner David Miranda was detained at Heathrow, searched, and questioned for nine hours.
That's exactly the sort of ordeal Micah Lee, the staff technologist and resident crypto expert at Greenwald’s investigative news site The Intercept, hopes to render obsolete. On Tuesday he released Onionshare —simple, free software designed to let anyone send files securely and anonymously. After reading about Greenwald’s file transfer problem in Greenwald's new book , Lee created the program as a way of sharing big data dumps via a direct channel encrypted and protected by the anonymity software Tor, making it far more difficult for eavesdroppers to determine who is sending what to whom.
“If you use a filesharing service like Dropbox or Mega or whatever, you basically have to trust them. The file could end up in the hands of law enforcement,” Lee says. “This lets you bypass all third parties, so that the file goes from one person to another over the Tor network completely anonymously.
“It’s basically 100 percent darknet.” When Onionshare users want to send files, the program creates a password-protected, temporary website hosted on the Tor network—what’s known as a Tor Hidden Service—that runs on their computer. They provide the recipient with the URL and password for that site, preferably via a message encrypted with a tool like PGP or Off-The-Record encrypted instant messaging. The recipient visits that URL in a Tor Browser and downloads the file from that temporary, untraceable website, without needing to have a copy of Onionshare.
“As soon as the person has downloaded the file, you can just cancel the web server and the file is no longer accessible to anyone,” Lee says.
Lee hopes to have others examine Onionshare’s code to suss out flaws. For now it only runs as a bare-bones command-line tool on the Tor-based operating system Tails , which can be launched on Windows or Mac machines. He plans to add a version that runs directly on Windows and Mac computers soon.
Onionshare can be particularly useful when someone sending a file wants to remain anonymous even to the recipient, Lee says. If whistleblowers can securely send an Onionshare URL and password to a journalist, they potentially could use it to leak secrets anonymously without being exposed. That flips the model of how Tor enables leaks: Sites like WikiLeaks and news organizations using the anonymous leak software SecureDrop host their own Tor Hidden Services. Onionshare could put more power in whistleblowers' hands, helping them send secrets to journalists who don’t have that sort of anonymous submission system in place.
But Lee also sees Onionshare being used for more common file-sharing situations where everyone involved knows each other but require utmost secrecy. It’s a safe bet that Greenwald and Miranda will be fans.
“The internet is amazing in that it doesn’t have borders,” Lee says. “If you need to send files that are very sensitive, better to use the internet to send them rather than to travel and get searched at the border.” “Actually, everything on the internet is searched,” he corrects himself a moment later. “That’s why we need encryption.” Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Business Who Is Mira Murati, OpenAI’s New Interim CEO? Steven Levy Senior Writer X Topics anonymity Edward Snowden leaks Tor Threat Level Andy Greenberg Andrew Couts Lily Hay Newman Andy Greenberg David Gilbert David Gilbert David Gilbert Justin Ling Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
