Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Angela Watercutter Culture Fortnite Disappeared Over the Weekend Fortnite disappeared following the end of its tenth season on Sunday.
Courtesy of Epic Games Save this story Save Save this story Save Greetings! Welcome to another edition of The Monitor , WIRED’s pop culture news roundup. What big news did you miss this weekend? Well, Fornite is gone. So there’s that. Also, Joker is still making a lot of money and Martin Scorsese still doesn’t like Marvel movies. Let’s get going.
A strange thing happened yesterday as the massively popular videogame Fortnite wrapped up its 10th season: It disappeared. The game went offline , and hasn’t been playable since. Following the season finale—appropriately titled “The End”— Fortnite got sucked into a black hole. Now the game’s YouTube channel and Instagram and Twitter accounts all just show that void. Eagle-eyed gamers have spotted a series of numbers in the black hole and are fervently trying to decode them, Lost -style. Season 11 still seems likely to happen, but not until players have fully lost their minds.
Director Todd Phillips’ Joker origin story continues to dominate the box office. The flick made another $55 million domestically in its second weekend, giving it a total of $192.7 million in the US and $543.9 million around the world. Meanwhile, Gemini Man brought in $31.1 million domestically and $59.5 million worldwide.
Director Martin Scorsese is still convinced that Marvel movies are nothing but “theme parks.” After causing a stir a few weeks ago for telling Empire that the MCU films aren’t “the cinema of human beings trying to convey emotional, psychological experiences to another human being,” the director continued to disparage the movies over the weekend at the London Film Festival, where his new Netflix film, The Irishman , screened. "It's not cinema, it’s something else," he said.
 "We shouldn’t be invaded by it. We need cinemas to step up and show films that are narrative films." The female founders disrupting the vagina economy Silicon Valley cynicism in the age of Trump and Zuckerberg Movie talk and the rise of review culture Jack Conte, Patreon, and the plight of the creative class The tech helping dogs learn to “talk” with humans 👁 Prepare for the deepfake era of video ; plus, check out the latest news on AI 💻 Upgrade your work game with our Gear team’s favorite laptops , keyboards , typing alternatives , and noise-canceling headphones Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Business Who Is Mira Murati, OpenAI’s New Interim CEO? Steven Levy Senior Editor X Tumblr Topics The Monitor Jason Parham Gideon Lichfield Kate Knibbs Virginia Heffernan Kate Knibbs Vauhini Vara Lindsay Jones Angela Watercutter Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
