Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Daniel Oberhaus Science NASA Is Getting Serious About an Interstellar Mission Photograph: NASA Save this story Save Save this story Save Interstellar space exploration has long been the stuff of science fiction, a technological challenge that many engineers believe humans just aren’t up to yet. But an ongoing study by a group of NASA-affiliated researchers is challenging this assumption. The researchers have a vision for a mission that could be built with existing technology. Indeed, the group says that if their mission is selected by NASA it could fly as soon as 2030.
“This is humanity’s first explicit step into interstellar space,” says Pontus Brandt, a physicist at the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory who is working on the interstellar probe study.
The lab kicked off its Interstellar Probe study last summer at the behest of NASA’s Heliophysics division. A year in, they are now hashing out the nitty-gritty engineering details of such a mission. At the end of 2021, Brandt and his colleagues will submit it for inclusion in the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine’s Heliophysics decadal survey, which determines sun-related mission priorities for the next 10 years.
The basic idea for the interstellar mission is to launch a spacecraft weighing less than 1,700 pounds on NASA’s massive Space Launch System rocket, which is expected to be ready by 2021. That will get it traveling across our solar system like any other probe. To give it another boost, it will then use a gravity assist to sling the craft to speeds well over 100,000 miles per hour. The team at the Applied Physics Lab is currently considering two types of gravity assists—a “plain vanilla” assist that swings the probe around Jupiter and another that swings it around the sun.
Using the sun is advantageous, because the spacecraft can reach far higher speeds than it can from a Jupiter assist. But the spacecraft would have to pass several times closer to the sun than the Parker Solar Probe , which recently became the closest human-made object to pass by the star. This requires some serious heat shielding, but at a certain point the heat shield becomes so bulky that it reduces the spacecraft’s speed the closer it gets to the sun. The task for Brandt and his colleagues will be to find the sweet spot that takes the craft to interstellar space as fast as possible.
“It’s time we have a vision we can actually execute,” says Ralph McNutt, a physicist at the Applied Physics Laboratory. “Up to now, people haven’t thought about this as an engineering problem. They kick the can down the road, saying, ‘Well, we just need a little bit more new technology.’” Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Business Who Is Mira Murati, OpenAI’s New Interim CEO? Steven Levy NASA’s interstellar probe has a more modest goal compared to other interstellar mission proposals, like Breakthrough Starshot , which aims to send a thumbnail-sized craft to another star. Instead, NASA wants to launch a probe that will last for 50 years and travel 92 billion miles—about 1,000 times the distance from Earth to the sun. To put this in perspective, Voyager 1 and Voyager 2, the only spacecraft to make it to interstellar space, are currently around 13 billion miles away from Earth. It took those spacecraft nearly four decades to cover this distance, but NASA’s new interstellar probe could make it there in less than 15 years.
Voyager 1 entered interstellar space in 2012 and Voyager 2 left the solar system last year. They were designed to be planetary explorers, which meant they weren’t outfitted with many of the instruments physicists would need to get a deep understanding of interstellar space. While the two spacecraft have returned a wealth of data, their journey to the stars has raised far more questions than answers.
Of particular interest to physicists is the nature of the heliosphere, a bubble of space sustained by the pressure from the solar wind. Beyond the heliosphere’s semipermeable boundary, known as the heliopause, particles originating from the sun become scarce ,and particles emanating from the rest of the galaxy dominate. The transition from solar system to interstellar space is still a great mystery to physicists, as is the structure of the heliosphere itself.
“We’re sitting inside a bubble trying to figure out what shape it is, which is extremely hard,” says Brandt. “The uniqueness of an interstellar probe is that we can go out and take a picture of our habitable little bubble in space.” But NASA’s interstellar probe wouldn’t just be looking backward to snap selfies of our cosmological home. It could also sample the zodiacal cloud, a mysterious ring of dust that extends to the outer region of the heliosphere and holds clues to the formation of our solar system. Traveling beyond this dust cloud will also give the spacecraft access to infrared light from the earliest galaxies in the universe that is otherwise blocked.
Brandt says it’s impossible to know just what an interstellar probe might find out there, but a dedicated mission beyond the solar system would drastically alter our understanding of the universe and our place in it. Still, despite interest from scientists around the world, there are no guarantees this mission will ever launch.
Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Business Who Is Mira Murati, OpenAI’s New Interim CEO? Steven Levy In the early 2000s, the Applied Physics Lab led a similar study for NASA called the Innovative Interstellar Explorer that aimed to launch a probe beyond the solar system by 2018. Although an interstellar mission received a lot of attention in the last heliophysics decadal survey in 2012, Brandt says the consensus was that the technology for such a mission wasn’t ready.
“The whole problem has been propulsion all along,” he says. “But with the SLS this is no longer true. This is real and we want to have the technology ready by 2030.” Of course, SLS is having its own problems getting to the launch pad , but now that private space companies are in the business of building huge rockets , an interstellar probe might have several different rides to choose from. The bottom line is that the technology for an interstellar mission is ready, and a growing contingent of space scientists have made it clear that they’re done waiting around to take the next giant step into the cosmos.
Inside Apple’s high-flying bid to become a streaming giant Can license plate readers really reduce crime ? The acid sludge streaming out of Germany's coal mines Ripper —the inside story of the egregiously bad videogame Tired of jet lag? This app will help reset your clock 👁 Prepare for the deepfake era of video ; plus, check out the latest news on AI 🎧 Things not sounding right? Check out our favorite wireless headphones , soundbars , and Bluetooth speakers Staff Writer X Topics interstellar space exploration NASA Ramin Skibba Amit Katwala Matt Simon Matt Simon Grace Browne Ramin Skibba Jim Robbins Emily Mullin Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
