Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Jessi Hempel Business The Man Behind the Hidden World of Magic Leap Save this story Save Save this story Save Rony Abovitz | CEO/founder | Magic Leap Louise Pomeroy By most measures, Magic Leap founder Rony Abovitz is eccentric. He once gave a TEDx talk in which he dressed up as an astronaut and came onstage with two fighting apes and a human-sized candy bar labeled “Thwaxo’s Strangely Demented Space Fudge.” He recently backed out of the main TED event , the most prestigious tech and design conference in the world, at the last minute, without explanation. And he compares his publicity strategy for Magic Leap’s secret augmented reality device to the Lord of the Rings films, saying, “In the beginning of The Hobbit , you saw Smaug’s eye, and then maybe you saw a tail at some point, but you didn’t see Smaug until you entered the second movie.” Many believe that the technology Abovitz is working on—along with a handful of competing virtual reality rigs—could usher in the next big change in how we use computers. (Abovitz calls it “cinematic reality—a complete shift in visual computing.”) The ability to place sensors everywhere and process the volume of data they produce, coupled with advances in computer vision, makes it possible to create better immersive environments (as we saw with the debut of the Oculus Rift last year) and believable layers of digital images on top of the physical world (demo’d earlier this year by Microsoft with its Project HoloLens). Facebook and Microsoft have chosen to make their headset prototypes available as they engineer them, inviting outside developers to experiment with creating software for them. But Magic Leap, which claims to be using a different technology to achieve its effect, is keeping its efforts secret, releasing only the occasional short concept video to tease enthusiasts. “A little bit of reveal is important, but it’s also important for us to preserve the ability to perfect the device,” Abovitz says.
caption He pauses, then adds: “When we launch it, it is going to be huge.” How does he know? Well, you’ll just have to trust him. And plenty of people who have seen the technology do. New Zealand design studio Weta Workshops has partnered with Magic Leap to build games (again, in secret). Science fiction superstar Neal Stephenson has signed on as the company’s chief futurist. And last fall, Google led a $542 million investment in the company, bringing its total funding to $592 million. That’s enough cash to recruit some of the best engineers in the field. Google’s powerful senior vice president of products joined the board.
It’s not clear when Magic Leap’s technology will be available for consumers, but Abovitz has some big ideas about how they’ll use it. He believes that one of the early uses of Magic Leap will be games. Eventually, though, the tech will infuse itself into every experience. “Imagine you are walking in China and all the billboards are in English. And at the restaurants, as the people are talking to you, there are live subtitles,” he says, explaining what the device will enable. “You don’t even realize you are in a computer; it’s just happening.” The son of an artist and an inventor, Abovitz grew up on Atari and got his first computer, an early Mac, at age 8. In college at the University of Miami, he was a cartoonist who also threw the javelin and wanted to build rocket ships. “My dad and my mom convinced me to go into biomedical engineering, because they said astronauts going to Mars will need life support systems,” he says, describing his major as “accelerated med school plus electrical software computing and all different kinds of engineering.” $592 million | The total amount of funding Magic Leap has raised, most of it in a round led by Google.
Abovitz plays music on the side and has an affinity for fantasy, especially sci-fi. “I grew up with Star Wars , not Star Trek ,” he says, drawing a definitive distinction between types of geekdom. He was heavily influenced by the movie and has said the robotic surgical arms his first startup produced were like bringing the movie’s droids to life. In 2013, he sold the company, Mako Surgical, for $1.65 billion, turning his attention to the passion project he and his high school friend John Graham Macnamara, a trained physicist, had been batting about for a couple of years. That, of course, became Magic Leap.
Today, the company has offices in New Zealand, where Weta Workshops is based, as well as in Los Angeles, Seattle, and Mountain View, California, and Abovitz is hiring at a fast pace. Now he must make good on the concept videos he has sent whizzing about the web. While Abovitz may love fantasy, investors prefer reality.
Check out the full Next List here.
Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Business Who Is Mira Murati, OpenAI’s New Interim CEO? Steven Levy Senior Writer Facebook X Topics augmented reality Google magazine-23.05 Magic Leap The Next List Will Knight Steven Levy Amanda Hoover Christopher Beam Will Knight Samanth Subramanian Susan D'Agostino Caitlin Harrington Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
