Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Brian Barrett Security How to Permanently Delete Your Facebook Account There's never a bad time to say goodbye to Facebook, but now might be an especially good one.
Illustration: Elena Lacey; Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save There’s never a bad time to delete your Facebook account : Chances are good you use it less than ever, and every time you do log on you're greeted by a slurry of reheated viral news and life updates from two or three distant acquaintances. Now, though, feels like an especially good time to pull the plug.
There’s the ongoing series of Wall Street Journal stories that claim the company repeatedly ignored internal research about the various harms its products cause. There’s the prolonged outage that made you think maybe so much of the world’s internet activity shouldn’t run through a single company.
 And there’s the general sense that Facebook is probably, on the whole, not so great for society.
 At a certain point it’s too much, you know? If you’ve reached that point, here’s how to quit Facebook for good, along with how to limit how much it can track you after you’re gone.
Let’s establish first that there are a few things you can do that feel like deleting your Facebook account that are, in fact, not that. Deleting the app from your phone? Cathartic, maybe, but functionally useless. Deactivating your Facebook account? A little better, in that you mostly disappear from the platform, but it still holds onto all your data, waiting patiently and indefinitely for your return.
And look, OK, maybe that’s the right option for you; maybe you want a nicotine patch instead of going cold turkey. There are no wrong answers! To deactivate your account, click the down-facing arrow on the top right of the page when you load up Facebook. Click Settings & Privacy , and then Settings.
 From there, swivel your gaze over to the left-hand panel of options, and click Your Facebook Information.
 Then back to the central menu, where you can scroll all the way down to Deactivation and deletion.
 Phew! When you click it, you get the two options advertised: deactivation and deletion. It defaults to deactivate, so go ahead and click Continue to account deactivation.
 You’ll need to reenter your password, which will unlock a page that requires you to give a reason for leaving, and gives you a chance to opt out of emails from Facebook (notifications, basically, that a friend has invited you to join a group or some such, even though you are a zombie account) and to keep using Messenger. Select all that apply, hit that blue Deactivate button, and call it a day.
Well, almost. Deactivation doesn’t accomplish all that much in practice. Messages you sent to your friends will still be in their inboxes, and you’ll still show up in their friends list. Posts and comments you’ve made in groups will still be visible to admins. And, again, Facebook will continue to hold onto all of your data in perpetuity. All you have to do to reactivate is log back into your account. It’s like writing a big “leaving New York” essay but continuing to pay exorbitant rent on a nice little one-bedroom in Astoria.
If you’re ready to make a more serious commitment to severing ties, take a quick minute first to consider if Facebook has any data resting on its servers that you might want to keep. Maybe you used it as a photo album in the late aughts. Maybe you have messages you want to hold onto. Maybe you did a good post one time? If so, what was that like! The point is, it might be worth saving your Facebook data—or shuttling it to another service—before you nuke your account. This is not hard to do, although it can take a little time. From that same downward-arrow icon you started at before, head to Settings & Privacy , then Settings.
 In that left-hand pane, go to Your Facebook Information.
 If you just want to switch where you keep all that stuff online, hit Transfer a Copy of Your Information , then choose from among the nine options it gives you. (This is Dropbox, Google Photos, Backblaze, that sort of thing. Also: Blogger?) Once you pick a service, you can choose what kind of data you want to transfer and how much of it; for photos, for instance, you can set a date range, or select specific albums. Make those decisions, connect to the destination service, and let the transfer begin. You may have to go through this process a couple of times if you want photos to go one place and posts and such to go somewhere else.
Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Business Who Is Mira Murati, OpenAI’s New Interim CEO? Steven Levy You can also opt to take it all offline entirely by heading to Download Your Information.
 There are 44 categories of data, and you’re not going to want all of them. (Most people can say goodbye to Facebook without downloading their bug bounty program history.) Take some time to deselect the ones you won’t miss. Set your date range to All Time , set the format to HTML so that you can actually parse it when it comes through, make sure you’ve set the Media Quality drop-down to High , and click Create File.
 Facebook will notify you via email when your download is ready.
And with that! You’re ready to delete. Follow the same trail as for deactivation (that’s Settings > Settings & Privacy > Your Facebook Information > Deactivation and deletion ). This time, select Delete account , then Continue to account deletion.
 It’ll prompt you to deactivate instead if you want to keep using Messenger, and remind you to download your stuff before you go. Hit Delete account , and you’ll have to enter your password and click Continue.
 And then poof, you’re gone.
Well, not quite yet. Facebook has a 30-day grace period just in case you change your mind; just log back into your account and click Cancel Deletion. The company says it could take 90 days to actually delete all your account’s data, and that it might hold onto some of it anyway in “backup storage” that it keeps on hand for recovery purposes. But this is as deleted as you can get.
You thought you were done! You are not done, sorry. This is mostly a reminder that even though you don’t have a Facebook account anymore, Facebook still tracks you. That could be through its broader family of apps, like Instagram, WhatsApp, Messenger, and Oculus. Or even without any of those, its preposterously expansive ad network gives it insights into most of the internet’s users, whether they’ve ever signed up for its social networks or not.
Your options here are pretty limited, unfortunately. You can request to opt out of some ad-targeting activity at the Digital Advertising Alliance’s YourAdChoices site. You can use a privacy browser like DuckDuckGo.
 Or you can chuck all of your electronics into the sea and embrace a return to nature. Short of that, chances are Facebook will track you one way or another.
Still, deleting your account is a good place to start. And this seems like as good a time as any to do it.
📩 The latest on tech, science, and more: Get our newsletters ! Rain boots, turning tides, and the search for a missing boy Astronomers prepare to probe Europa's ocean for life Clearview AI has new tools to identify you in photos Dragon Age and why it sucks to play cult favorites How a Google geofence warrant helped catch DC rioters 👁️ Explore AI like never before with our new database 🎮 WIRED Games: Get the latest tips, reviews, and more 📱 Torn between the latest phones? Never fear—check out our iPhone buying guide and favorite Android phones Executive Editor, News X Topics Facebook privacy security data privacy how-to magazine-29.12/30.01 Andrew Couts Andy Greenberg David Gilbert Lily Hay Newman Andy Greenberg David Gilbert David Gilbert Justin Ling Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
