Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Scientist Explains How to Study the Metabolism of Ultra High Flying Geese About Released on 09/20/2019 Geese get a bad rap for being ornery and attacking children and what not, but the bar headed goose is actually a pretty laid back species that makes an incredible journey over the Himalayas, going up in altitudes of 26,000 feet.
To learn more about what is physiologically happening in the bodies of these geese, researchers strapped backpacks on them and gave them face masks and put them in a wind tunnel.
To learn more, we sat down with a scientist who worked on the study.
Hi, I'm Julia York.
I'm currently a PhD candidate at the University of Texas at Austin.
And can you walk us through how you raise these geese from birth and how you prepare them for this experiment? We wanted to train these geese to fly in a wind tunnel so that we could manipulate them experimentally and measure their metabolic rate in a controlled environment.
And we wanted the geese to be as calm and comfortable as possible under these conditions.
So we raised the geese from eggs and spent every day with them for a whole summer, going for walks, and taking naps, and going for swims, and eating lettuce.
And so they thought we were their mom and that they were comfortable around us and we could get them trained on the experimental equipment.
And what goes through that experimental setup here? How was the wind tunnel arranged? How were the geese kept comfortable? All that sort of stuff.
It's actually a wind tunnel that is designed for cars, but it was large enough that we could fly a goose in it.
We set it up with tubes that attach to a mask that we built to fit the geese, a little plastic mask, and measure the oxygen that they were consuming and the CO2 that they were producing, and then introduce nitrogen into the air that they were breathing to reduce the relative amount of oxygen in each breath and simulate altitude.
And I also understand that they're wearing backpacks? So they have these little backpacks on that strap around their wings and those held the heart rate monitors, primarily, but also we did a subset of experiments where we tested the amount of oxygen and the temperature of their blood.
And while we were doing those experiments, the backpacks also held those monitors.
Can you walk us through some potential challenges here? I imagine there were a few of them training geese to fly calmly in a wind tunnel with a mask and a backpack on.
Geese are not food motivated animals, like dogs.
You can't give 'em a treat to reward them for their behavior.
They kind of do what they wanna do. [chuckles] So when we first brought them into the wind tunnel, obviously, we started them off very slowly, just getting them used to the environment, comfortable in that setting.
And then we started turning on the wind tunnel so they could feel the air moving and the noise.
Then we started allowing them to fly with the air running, without the equipment.
Sort of like a treadmill, but for flying.
Some of the geese just did not get it, [laughs] and would fly maybe for a minute, but then land and sort of sit there and wait for it to be over.
So out of 19 total geese that we tried to train, we only got seven to fly consistently in the wind tunnel.
And those geese would fly one good, long flight per day.
And what were you finding as these geese were flapping around in the wind tunnel? The three major things we found were that they were able to minimize their metabolic rate in low-oxygen conditions.
So either they were able to fly more efficiently or reduce unnecessary metabolic processes.
We can't really differentiate between those two hypotheses.
The second thing we found was that their heart rate didn't change between high and low oxygen conditions.
That tells us that increase in heart rate in the wild is due to some other component of altitude, rather than the low oxygen.
And the third thing we found was that they were able to drop their blood temperature as it goes towards the lung during the flight.
Hypothesize to increase the amount of oxygen that they're able to deliver to the muscle.
Physiologically, what is different about these geese that allows them to survive at such high altitudes? I mean, not only do they survive, right, they do this amazing migration where they go from sea level in India, all the way up to the passes in the Himalayas without stopping in eight to 12 hours.
They breathe more deeply, which is a more effective way to breathe.
And then they have larger lungs for their body size so they can increase the oxygen extraction from every breath.
They are able to increase their stroke volume, which is the amount of blood pumped per heart beat.
And they have hemoglobin in their blood that binds oxygen more tightly than other birds.
So there's just a large suite of adaptations that make these birds able to do this migration.
Bringing us around to humans, because we're selfish.
How about these findings tell us about how humans experience altitude sickness and potentially how we might be able to treat that by learning more about how geese deal with these things? In mammals, we will increase our breathing, our rate of breathing, and response to low oxygen, which reduces the amount of CO2 in our blood.
In the geese, they have a lot of adaptations across all the way from the way they breathe down to the mitochondria at the muscle that optimized the way they use oxygen.
For example, their blood vessels in their brain are not sensitive to CO2, so they don't get cerebral edema in the same way that we do.
They don't get altitude sickness because of that.
We understand what our responses are to these situations and by studying animals that are adapted to these low oxygen conditions, what can we learn from that and bring that into medicine or high altitude or any of the things that humans struggle to do in these conditions.
Thank you for joining us.
Thank you so much for your interest in the geese.
How the Disco Clam Uses Light to Fight Super-Strong Predators Architect Explains How Homes Could be 3D Printed on Mars and Earth Scientist Explains How Rare Genetics Allow Some to Sleep Only 4 Hours a Night Scientist Explains Unsinkable Metal That Could Prevent Disasters at Sea Is Invisibility Possible? An Inventor and a Physicist Explain Scientist Explains Why Her Lab Taught Rats to Drive Tiny Cars Mycologist Explains How a Slime Mold Can Solve Mazes How the Two-Hour Marathon Limit Was Broken Research Suggests Cats Like Their Owners as Much as Dogs Researcher Explains Deepfake Videos Scientist Explains How to Study the Metabolism of Ultra High Flying Geese Hurricane Hunter Explains How They Track and Predict Hurricanes Scientist Explains Viral Fish Cannon Video A Biohacker Explains Why He Turned His Leg Into a Hotspot Scientist Explains What Water Pooling in Kilauea's Volcanic Crater Means Bill Nye Explains the Science Behind Solar Sailing Vision Scientist Explains Why These Praying Mantises Are Wearing 3D Glasses Why Some Cities Are Banning Facial Recognition Technology Scientist's Map Explains Climate Change Scientist Explains How Moon Mining Would Work Scientist Explains How She Captured Rare Footage of a Giant Squid Doctor Explains How Sunscreen Affects Your Body Stranger Things is Getting a New Mall! But Today Malls Are Dying. What Happened? The Limits of Human Endurance Might Be Our Guts Meet the First College Students to Launch a Rocket Into Space Scientist Explains Why Dogs Can Smell Better Than Robots A Harvard Professor Explains What the Avengers Can Teach Us About Philosophy NASA Twin Study: How Space Changes Our Bodies What the Black Hole Picture Means for Researchers Scientist Explains How to Levitate Objects With Sound Why Scientists and Artists Want The Blackest Substances on Earth Biologist Explains How Drones Catching Whale "Snot" Helps Research Researcher Explains Why Humans Can't Spot Real-Life Deepfake Masks Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About The Coronavirus VFX Artist Breaks Down This Year's Best Visual Effects Nominees How Doctors on Earth Treated a Blood Clot in Space Scientist Explains Why Some Cats Eat Human Corpses Voting Expert Explains How Voting Technology Will Impact the 2020 Election Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About Pandemics ER Doctor Explains How They're Handling Covid-19 Why This Taste Map Is Wrong Q&A: What's Next for the Coronavirus Pandemic? Why Captive Tigers Can’t Be Reintroduced to the Wild How Covid-19 Immunity Compares to Other Diseases 5 Mistakes to Avoid as We Try to Stop Covid-19 How This Emergency Ventilator Could Keep Covid-19 Patients Alive Why NASA Made a Helicopter for Mars Theoretical Physicist Breaks Down the Marvel Multiverse Former NASA Astronaut Explains Jeff Bezos's Space Flight Physics Student Breaks Down Gymnastics Physics What Do Cities Look Like Under a Microscope? Inside the Largest Bitcoin Mine in The U.S.
How Caffeine Has Fueled History How Mushroom Time-Lapses Are Filmed Why You’ll Fail the Milk Crate Challenge Why Vegan Cheese Doesn't Melt How 250 Cameras Filmed Neill Blomkamp's Demonic How Meme Detectives Stop NFT Fraud How Disney Designed a Robotic Spider-Man How Online Conspiracy Groups Compare to Cults Dune Costume Designers Break Down Dune’s Stillsuits Korean Phrases You Missed in 'Squid Game' Why Scientists Are Stress Testing Tardigrades Every Prototype that Led to a Realistic Prosthetic Arm Why the Toilet Needs an Upgrade How Animals Are Evolving Because of Climate Change How Stop-Motion Movies Are Animated at Aardman Astronomer Explains How NASA Detects Asteroids Are We Living In A Simulation? Inside the Journey of a Shipping Container (And Why the Supply Chain Is So Backed Up) The Science of Slow Aging How Nose Swabs Detect New Covid-19 Strains Samsung S22 Ultra Explained in 3 Minutes The Science Behind Elon Musk’s Neuralink Brain Chip Every Prototype to Make a Humanoid Robot Chemist Breaks Down How At-Home Covid Tests Work A Timeline of Russian Cyberattacks on Ukraine VFX Artist Breaks Down Oscar-Nominated CGI Why Smartphone Night Photos Are So Good Now We Invented the Perfect WIRED Autocomplete Glue How Everything Everywhere All at Once's Visual Effects Were Made How Dogs Coevolved with Humans How an Architect Redesigns NYC Streets Viking Expert Breaks Down The Northman Weapons J. Kenji López-Alt Breaks Down the Science of Stir-Fry How A.I. Is Changing Hollywood How Trash Goes From Garbage Cans to Landfills Veterinarian Explains How to Prevent Pet Separation Anxiety The Science Behind Genetically Modified Mosquitoes How Scientists & Filmmakers Brought Prehistoric Planet's Dinosaurs to Life All the Ways Google Gets Street View Images How Public Cameras Recognize and Track You How the Nuro Robotic Delivery Car Was Built Biologist Explains the Unexpected Origins of Feathers in Fashion Surgeons Break Down Separating Conjoined Twins Former Air Force Pilot Breaks Down UFO Footage Bug Expert Explains Why Cicadas Are So Loud The Best of CES 2021 Health Expert Explains What You Need to Know About Quarantines Scientist Explains How People Might Hibernate Like Bears Could a Chernobyl Level Nuclear Disaster Happen in the US? Neuroscientist Explains ASMR's Effects on the Brain & The Body Why Top Scientists Are Pretending an Asteroid is Headed for Earth Epidemiologist Answers Common Monkeypox Questions Bill Nye Breaks Down Webb Telescope Space Images How This Humanoid Robot Diver Was Designed Every Trick a Pro GeoGuessr Player Uses to Win How NASA Biologists Plan to Grow Plants on the Moon How FIFA Graphics & Gameplay Are Evolving (1993 - 2023) How a Vet Performs Dangerous Surgeries on Wild Animals This Heart is Not Human How Entomologists Use Insects to Solve Crimes Former NASA Astronaut Breaks Down a Rocket Launch Chess Pro Explains How to Spot Cheaters Why Billionaires Are Actually Ruining the Economy How to Keep Your New Year’s Resolutions for More Than a Week The Biology Behind The Last of Us English Teacher Grades Homework By ChatGPT All the Ways a Cold Plunge Affects the Body Spy Historian Debunks Chinese Spy Balloon Theories A.I. Tries 20 Jobs | WIRED Mathematician Breaks Down the Best Ways to Win the Lottery Why Music Festivals Sound Better Than Ever Pro Interpreters vs. AI Challenge: Who Translates Faster and Better? Why The Average Human Couldn't Drive An F1 Car Atomic Expert Explains "Oppenheimer" Bomb Scenes Every 'Useless' Body Part Explained From Head to Toe How Pilots and Scientists Are Thinking About the Future of Air Travel How To Max Out At Every Fantasy Football Position (Ft. Matthew Berry) All The Ways Mt. Everest Can Kill You How Fat Bears Bulk Up To Hibernate (And Why We Love To See It) Why Vintage Tech Is So Valuable To Collectors 8 Photos That Tell The History of Humans In Space How Every Organ in Your Body Ages From Head to Toe Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
