Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Tony Hawk Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions About Credits Tony Hawk has joined MasterClass to teach skateboarding Released on 06/24/2020 Hey, I'm Tony Hawk, pro skater, and this is the Wired Autocomplete Interview.
And, go.
Okay, let's complete the autocomplete.
First one is Can Tony Hawk.
I'm guessing Can Tony Hawk do a 900? Still skate. Yes, I can still skate.
I still skate often, actually.
I would say three or four times a week, especially since COVID and no travel.
I've just been either home or at my ramp.
Or actually in backyard pools and dislocated my fingers last weekend.
So yeah, I'm still skating.
Can Tony Hawk street skate? The short answer is kinda.
I went through a big street phase in the early '90s because there were hardly any vert ramps around.
Skating was all about street, handrails, ledges, things like that, and I did as best as I could until I rolled both my ankles twice so severely that it was sort of risking my sense of being able to skate at all, again.
And so I just sort of focused in on transition and ramp skating, been doing it ever since.
So yes, I have some dormant street skills.
I can do the handrails, and I do a few kickflip variations but not in the traditional sense that you see, especially on TV or, like, X-Games.
Can Tony Hawk kickflip? Yes, I can.
I was about 13 years old when kickflips were actually invented by Rodney Mullen and I learned them shortly thereafter.
I still do them, they're not beautiful.
I don't catch 'em very high, but yes, I can kickflip.
And so I feel justified when I go and ask kids, Do a kickflip, 'cause I walk the walk.
All right, Can Tony Hawk still do a 900? [laughs] I did one a couple years ago.
I think that if I was really motivated and I had the right incentive, I don't mean, like, financial, I just mean in terms of, like, the emotional incentive to do it I could probably throw one down.
If you're gonna go try a 900, the incentive is to go do it and make it and so I know going into it if I'm gonna go try a 900 I'm definitely gonna take a few knocks along the way.
And I have to be fully prepared for that.
It takes so much out of you just to attempt it, there's no reason to just test it out.
Can Tony Hawk sing? I'm gonna leave that for you to judge. [laughs] Because I did The Masked Singer.
I was voted first out in my group.
I don't know if that means I can or can't sing.
Probably not a good sign, but I think I can.
I come from a line of musicians in my family, so my dad, he knew how to play a lot of different instruments.
My sister was actually backup singer for Michael Bolton and for the Righteous Brothers, John Denver, and the Pet Shop Boys, and so I feel like I had enough, I don't know, hereditary skill to do it.
Can Tony Hawk surf? Yes, I can surf.
I've been surfing almost as long as I've been skating.
I don't put the effort into trying to go out when it's good because my schedule's crazy and so if I were to actually be chasing swells I would have to compromise a lot more in my life.
That is one excuse, but I went to Kelly Slater's surf ranch a couple weeks ago, got pitted, so yeah, I can surf.
Can Tony Hawk snowboard? Yes.
I've been snowboarding since they first made snowboards.
First time I went snowboarding was in 1982.
So I've definitely been snowboarding longer than you.
Where was Tony Hawk born and raised? San Diego, California.
My dad was the Navy and he was stationed in San Diego and he retired, lucky me, we just ended up here and stayed.
Let's see, Where did Tony Hawk go to high school? Well, it's funny, I say I stayed in San Diego but my parents actually did move around San Diego while I was in school so I went to my freshman year at San Dieguito High School, now known as San Dieguito Academy.
Moved to Torrey Pines High School in my sophomore year and graduated there.
San Dieguito was rough back then, honestly, and that's why I asked to move schools.
I was a skater, I got picked on a lot, which we now know is bullying.
I would literally get hassled in the hallways just 'cause they knew I skated.
I was already really small and kinda nerdy and the fact that I skated was just, like, That dude sucks. [chuckles] It got a little bit better at Torrey Pines but I can't say it was the most pleasant experience.
All right, Where does Tony Hawk live now? Encinitas, north San Diego.
It's a metropolitan area, but it's not crazy like Los Angeles where it's gridlock traffic all the time.
I just love that there's a very strong surf, skate culture here and there always has been and really the reason I loved it so much as a kid is because one of the last skate parks in the US was right here, and that was where I developed most of my skills and really honed my style.
All right, Where has Tony Hawk been? [laughs] Really? Is that really an autofill that comes up? Where has Tony Hawk been? Maybe they mean just in terms of in the public eye? Where I've been, been right here, doing my thing.
Skating, raising a family, you know, maybe I'm not on Punked or maybe you haven't seen me on talk shows recently but I've stayed the course.
Just doing my thing.
I think that maybe people will start to learn a lot more about me in this coming year because thanks to my master class and thanks to the THPS remaster.
But where have I been? Just raising kids and skating, that's where I've been.
Is Tony Hawk? I can already sense that one of these says Is Tony Hawk alive? The rumors of my death are greatly exaggerated, by the way.
Is Tony Hawk a nice guy? [laughs] What a strange question to ask Google.
It's just a matter of opinion.
Does Google do, I don't know, do I have any sort of Yelp reviews on myself? How would anyone know that? I like to think I'm a nice guy.
I have a great relationship with my kids.
I love interacting with fans and I get to skateboard for a living and that, I think, in itself is what makes me friendly, 'cause I live my dream.
Is Tony Hawk a good skater? Again, a matter of opinion.
I would say if I had to judge myself I'm very good for my age.
All right, Is Tony Hawk a vegetarian? I am not a vegetarian, I do lean towards plant based foods.
My friend said it best was, he said, Tony, I know you kinda lean toward vegetarianism but I bet you'd [beep] up a steak and he was right, I would.
I love barbecue too.
All right, Is Tony Hawk a boomer? I am not a boomer! I am Gen X.
My older siblings are boomers.
And you know something funny is somehow this is an insult.
It only means that you are part of the baby boomer generation and that was the generation of families that came back from the war and then everybody was having babies.
That is what the baby boomer generation is, people.
There's your lesson in generations.
I was born in 1968. Not boomer.
Is Tony Hawk British? No, but there is a British comedian named Tony Hawks.
I think he truly despises my existence because people get him confused, they get his name confused, they send him fan mail on my behalf.
They actually invited me on a morning show in London a long time ago and surprised me with him as a guest as well and then he got to basically chew me out.
Is Tony Hawk going to the Olympics? I was planning to go to the Olympics to be a commentator of sorts, but not to be a skater representing the United States of America.
There are much more qualified skaters and trust me, you don't want me being there just because you know my name.
I'm 52 and I'm a vert skater.
That's a park discipline and we have such talent in the US and they deserve to be there, so I'd much rather be behind the mic explaining to all you what exactly they're doing.
Is Tony Hawk goofy footed? Yes, I am goofy footed.
Right foot forward, and I'm not very good at skating switch so I'm not gonna say I'm ambidextrous and yep, I'm goofy footed.
Is Tony Hawk sponsored by Vans? Yes, I am. And here is proof.
That's what I'm wearing right now.
My first skate shoe was Vans in 1979 that I insisted my dad buy for me because I saw an ad for them in the Skateboarder Magazine and I was like, Skateboard shoes, I ride skateboards, I want those.
I've been through various sponsors since then and came back to Vans and I'm thankful.
Does Tony Hawk wear a helmet? For the most part I wear a helmet, especially when I'm skating bigger ramps and that's kinda my thing, is skating bigger ramps.
If I'm out cruising, street skating, skating smaller stuff, generally I don't.
And I'm sure that some people would complain about that, but it's more about my experience level.
I encourage people who are learning to skate to wear a helmet because you never know what's gonna happen.
And a lot of times you can fall back very quickly.
I'm on a big ramp, I'm wearing a helmet, and it's saved my life plenty of times.
If you're gonna skate vert, you're probably gonna wear a helmet.
Does Tony Hawk still compete? Not in the traditional sense.
Every once in a while I will jump into an event if there's sort of a legends division or maybe there's, like, a best trick thing and I feel like I might have something that I can contribute.
I'm actually in a really good place 'cause I get to pick and choose which events I wanna go to 'cause I'm not really trying to earn points.
I'm not trying to keep my status up like that.
Does Tony Hawk have tattoos? I do have tattoos.
I have this one right here, which is a Dr. Woo tattoo of a skateboard and some planets and then, if you can see closely, it has initials of my wife and all of our children sprinkled all throughout here.
And I have kind of a falcon head tattoo on my ankle that is not the finest work, I'll show you.
Do you see that? Not the most intricate work.
But the funny thing is I got it because I thought it'd be cool, I used to wear low socks all the time.
And so, you know, any video or pictures you'll see this hawk, and then I started getting burns on the sides of my ankles from the socks.
So I ended up just wearing long socks after that and now you never see it.
Does Tony Hawk have fake teeth? Yes, many.
[laughs] These four, right here.
I've knocked them out a few times each.
I've chipped them really badly and I chipped them again and then there was just sort of a little piece hanging on one side and then I ended up getting posts right there.
Does Tony Hawk longboard? No, not really.
I prefer skateboards that I can maneuver quickly and that I can do tricks on.
If you do longboard it's cool, I think of it more as a mode of transportation.
And I have some people that do tricks on them, but, you know, hey, whatever gets you moving.
If you're on a skateboard it's cool with me.
Does Tony Hawk have a brother? I do, I have an older brother, Steve Hawk.
And he is the one who gave me my first skateboard.
He was a surfer, still is a surfer.
Actually was the editor of Surfer Magazine for a while.
That first skateboard that he gave me, somehow I held onto it all through the years and he and I donated it to the Smithsonian a few years ago, which was very cool.
We got to fly to DC together and hand it over.
What is Tony Hawk Pro Skater? That is our video game franchise.
The first one was released in 1999, Tony Hawk's Pro Skater.
We kept releasing them almost every year, stopped for a while, I wasn't working with Activision.
And then, just recently, we have decided to remaster Tony Hawk's Pro Skater one and two literally 20 years later.
We're re-releasing them for all the new systems.
What Tony Hawk game is the best? These are all subjective searches.
How is that something anyone can decide? It's all in the eye of the beholder.
I would say the one that got the best reviews was Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2.
I think it still holds up as one of the top 10 best reviewed games of all time.
What skateboard does Tony Hawk ride? Do you want me to go get my skateboard? So this is the skateboard I ride.
It's a Birdhouse, Falcon, eight and a half inches.
Independent trucks and bones, 60 millimeter, skate park formula wheels.
This thing has been used, I think, exactly three days.
I will probably end up giving it away in a couple weeks for, like, an auction item or something like that.
They usually want the whole skateboard, which would make a lot of skaters cringe.
Because once you get used to your trucks that becomes what you rely on and that's sort of your signature on how you turn, and once you break in your trucks you hold onto them forever.
I'm so used to giving my boards away, the complete boards, that I've just gotten used to getting new trucks all the time and I'm actually more used to new trucks then if they're broken in.
What shoe does Tony Hawk wear? When I skate I wear the Vans old school hight tops just like I did in 1984, but if I'm chilling I'm wearing the slip ons, like Spicoli.
Thank you for joining me for the Wired Autocomplete Interview.
It was very thorough, it was very cathartic, and I appreciate you including me doing your searches.
Search on.
Starring: Tony Hawk Melissa McCarthy & Kristen Bell Answer The Web’s Most Searched Questions NASA Astronauts Answer The Web’s Most Searched Questions Common Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Ice Cube Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Eve Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Seth Rogen & Rose Byrne Answer The Web’s Most Searched Questions The Cast of Warcraft Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Slow Mo Guys, MatPat, AsapSCIENCE, and Burnie Burns Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dana Carvey Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Mr. Robot's Carly Chaikin Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Cara Delevingne Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Chelsea Handler Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Blindspot's Jaimie Alexander Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Aniston & Jason Bateman Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kate McKinnon & Vanessa Bayer Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Cast of "Rogue One" Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tracy Morgan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions The Cast of 'Sesame Street' Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Samuel L. Jackson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Lawrence & Chris Pratt Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Reggie Watts Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ryan Reynolds & Jake Gyllenhaal Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Evans Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Morgan Freeman, Michael Caine, and Alan Arkin Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Anne Hathaway & Jason Sudeikis Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Salma Hayek & Eugenio Derbez Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Amy Schumer & Goldie Hawn Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Steve Carell & Kristen Wiig Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Will Ferrell & Amy Poehler Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Al Gore Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions on Climate Change Matthew McConaughey & Idris Elba Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dave Franco, Kumail Nanjiani and Fred Armisen Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Cruise & Doug Liman Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Josh Brolin & Taylor Kitsch Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Matt Damon & Julianne Moore Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Nick Jonas Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Gaten Matarazzo and Joe Keery Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Last Jedi Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions John Cena Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Owen Wilson & Ed Helms Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Will Smith & Joel Edgerton Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Black Panther Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Google Search Team Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bruce Willis Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charlize Theron & David Oyelowo Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions This Is Us Cast Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Alicia Vikander Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Garner Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charlie Day Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jeff Goldblum Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Taraji P. Henson & Tyler Perry Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions John Krasinski Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ansel Elgort & Suki Waterhouse Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Terry Crews Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Shawn Mendes Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Solo Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jodie Foster Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Best of Autocomplete: The Cast of Black Panther, Stranger Things and More Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Robert Pattinson & Mia Wasikowska Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Alison Brie & Marc Maron Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions 'Sorry to Bother You' Cast Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions 'Ant-Man and the Wasp' Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Will Arnett Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Mila Kunis & Justin Theroux Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ewan McGregor & Hayley Atwell Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Liza Koshy Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions 'Dog Days' Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ken Jeong Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Mark Wahlberg, Ronda Rousey and Lauren Cohan Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions John Cho Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Rami Malek & Charlie Hunnam Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Anna Kendrick & Blake Lively Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Paul McCartney Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Keegan-Michael Key & Olivia Munn Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Elizabeth Olsen Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Hart & Tiffany Haddish Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Rhett & Link Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Riverdale Cast Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bella Thorne Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John Mulaney & Nick Kroll Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Aubrey Plaza & Craig Robinson Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Try Guys Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Keira Knightley & Mackenzie Foy Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Julia Roberts & Dermot Mulroney Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Emily Ratajkowski & Aaron Paul Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Sarah Silverman & John C. Reilly Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Margot Robbie & Saoirse Ronan Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Natalie Portman & Jude Law Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Lin-Manuel Miranda Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Best WIRED Autocomplete Moments of 2018 Feat. Liza Koshy, David Dobrik, The Try Guys & More Ninja Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zedd Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bryce Dallas Howard Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions James McAvoy & Sarah Paulson Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jane Fonda & Lily Tomlin Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Daniel Radcliffe Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Priyanka Chopra, Rebel Wilson & Adam Devine Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions David Dobrik Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Brie Larson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Freddie Highmore Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Oscar Isaac & Pedro Pascal Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Markiplier Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Colin Farrell & Danny DeVito Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Queer Eye Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Nikolaj Coster-Waldau Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Gina Rodriguez Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sean Bean Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Anthony Mackie Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lily Collins & Nicholas Hoult Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Wu-Tang Clan Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Wanda Sykes Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charles Melton Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jessica Alba & Gabrielle Union Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jon Hamm & David Tennant Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Thomas Middleditch & O'Shea Jackson Jr. Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Sophie Turner & Jessica Chastain Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Mindy Kaling & Emma Thompson Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Smosh Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Holland, Zendaya & Jacob Batalon Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Millie Bobby Brown, Finn Wolfhard & Noah Schnapp Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Winona Ryder & David Harbour Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Eric Andre Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Machine Gun Kelly Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charlie Puth Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Novak Djokovic Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Anderson Cooper Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jim Gaffigan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Liam Payne Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lilly Singh Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Gwen Stefani Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Dove Cameron Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Smith Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Niall Horan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lele Pons Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Hailee Steinfeld Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Louis Tomlinson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kiernan Shipka & Isabela Merced Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kristen Stewart, Naomi Scott, and Ella Balinska Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jack Black & Awkwafina Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions KJ Apa Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions The Best of Autocomplete 2019: Funniest Moments from Stranger Things, Spider-Man and More Billy Eichner & Cobie Smulders Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Frozen 2 Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jada Pinkett Smith Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zach Galifianakis & Zoe Saldana Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Elijah Wood Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Noah Centineo & Lana Condor Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Lucy Hale Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Patrick Stewart Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Norman Reedus Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Astronaut Chris Hadfield Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Nick Offerman Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Binging with Babish Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jamie Dornan & Shailene Woodley Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ellie Kemper Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Joe Biden Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ricky Gervais Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Alicia Keys Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tony Hawk Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Russell Crowe Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Bacon Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Joey King & Joel Courtney Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kermit & Miss Piggy Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Alessia Cara Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jamie Foxx & Joseph Gordon-Levitt Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Mayim Bialik Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Desus & Mero Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dolly Parton Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ruby Rose Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sonequa Martin-Green Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chelsea Handler Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John C. Reilly & Tim Heidecker Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Joel McHale Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Questlove Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Dua Lipa Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zara Larsson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bob Odenkirk and RZA Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions SpongeBob's Tom Kenny & Bill Fagerbakke Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jackson Wang Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Eric Andre Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions...Again LILHUDDY Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Polo G Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Hank Azaria Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zack Snyder Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions TWICE Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions MONSTA X Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Siri, Alexa and Google Home Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Rich Brian and NIKI Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions B.I Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Never Have I Ever Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions M. Night Shyamalan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Henry Golding Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions BTS Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Emily Blunt & Dwayne Johnson Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Hudson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Outer Banks Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Rita Ora Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Dove Cameron Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions...Again Daniel Radcliffe Answers MORE of the Web's Most Searched Questions Ben Platt & Amandla Stenberg Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Hardy & Andy Serkis Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions On My Block Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Daniel Craig & Lashana Lynch Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions William Shatner Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Madison Beer Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Marshmello Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Amanda Seyfried & Finn Wittrock Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Nina Dobrev Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kit Harington Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kristen Bell & Kirby Howell-Baptiste Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dominic Monaghan & Billy Boyd Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Cowboy Bebop Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions YouTube Search Team Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jack Whitehall Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Andrew Garfield Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sabrina Carpenter Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Simu Liu Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Holland, Zendaya & Jacob Batalon Answer MORE of the Web's Most Searched Questions Eric Nam Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ben Affleck & Lily Rabe Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions ATEEZ Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Seth Rogen Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Owen Wilson Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions David Byrne Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Johnny Knoxville Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Channing Tatum & Sandra Bullock Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Karen Gillan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Leslie Mann & Judd Apatow Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Cole Sprouse Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Nicolas Cage Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions TommyInnit Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Drew Gooden Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Seth MacFarlane Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sadie Sink, Noah Schnapp & Gaten Matarazzo Answer the Web’s Most Searched Questions Taika Waititi Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Maisie Williams Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Jacksepticeye Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Hemsworth Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Guinness World Records Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Russo Brothers Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Keke Palmer Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Marques Brownlee Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Neil Patrick Harris Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Lopez & Leah Remini Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dakota Johnson & Jeff Bridges Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions High School Musical: The Musical: The Series Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Hart & Mark Wahlberg Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Danny DeVito Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lili Reinhart Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John Boyega Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sofía Vergara & Simon Cowell Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Steve-O Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Stray Kids Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Charli & Dixie D'Amelio Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions NCT 127 Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Hasan Minhaj Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Cobra Kai's Ralph Macchio Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Mrwhosetheboss Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chloë Grace Moretz Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Millie Bobby Brown Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jenna Ortega Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Veritasium's Derek Muller Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jason Momoa Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions LaurDIY Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Nigel Ng & Uncle Roger Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Finn Wolfhard & Guillermo del Toro Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ludwig Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John Krasinski & Michael Kelly Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions ITZY Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Danny Gonzalez Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ashton Kutcher Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Paul Rudd & Jonathan Majors Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Outer Banks Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Again Kelly Slater Answers Surfing Questions From Twitter KAROL G Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Penn Badgley Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Pine, Hugh Grant & Michelle Rodriguez Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Willem Dafoe Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions KSI Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bob Odenkirk Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jisoo Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ali Wong & Steven Yeun Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Evans & Ana de Armas Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Airrack Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions ChatGPT Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions James & Sean Gunn Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Mark Hamill Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Shameik Moore, Issa Rae & Hailee Steinfeld Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Segura Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Robert Downey Jr. & Christopher Nolan Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Bear Grylls Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Smosh Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Ice Cube Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Stephen Curry Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions 'Heart of Stone' Cast Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions 'Critical Role' Cast Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Harry Mack Freestyles The Web's Most Searched Questions Olivia Rodrigo Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Pokimane Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions MoistCr1TiKaL Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Dream Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Fanum Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Casey Neistat Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions | WIRED Måneskin Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
