Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Jennifer M. Wood Culture The Best TV Shows You Missed in 2021—and How to Watch Them Illustration: Jenny Sharaf; Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save With so many streaming networks creating so much original content, not to mention the imported series that are regularly streaming on Netflix and beyond, there aren’t enough hours in the day to keep up with every new (or new-to-you) TV series. But here are five shows you might have missed that are worth your time.
If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
Stath Lets Flats is a well-known comedy in its native UK (creator/star Jamie Demetriou won two BAFTAs in 2020—one for Best Male Performance in a Comedy Program and the other for Best Scripted Series). But it’s much less known in the US, which is a crime against comedy. Demetriou plays Stath, a realtor who works for his dad’s business and hopes to one day inherit it. Except he’s terrible at his job, doesn’t know anything about real estate, and doesn’t seem to like people much either, which makes watching him navigate the daily drill of apartment showings and tenant complaints even funnier. Demetriou is the brother of What We Do in the Shadows star Natasia Demetriou, who also stars in the series (playing his sister, of course—an aspiring singer and dancer). The series’ third season just dropped on HBO in November.
Watch on HBO Max First there was Squid Game , then came Hellbound.
 In late November, this South Korean series overtook Squid Game to become the world’s most popular Netflix series. But that doesn’t matter. What you need to know is that it’s directed by Yeon Sang-ho, the visionary behind Train to Busan , and that it opens with the kind of WTF? moment that will have you hooked. It’s a supernatural crime show in which a mysterious bunch of beasts appear, attack, then disappear—leaving the authorities to figure out what the hell happened.
Watch on Netflix Before there was What We Do in the Shadows : The TV Series, there was What We Do in the Shadows : The Movie. But in between, there was Wellington Paranormal —a New Zealand-made comedy cocreated by Jemaine Clement and Taika Waititi. Like WWDITS , it’s a mockumentary-style production. But this time around it's shot from the police department’s point of view and features all sorts of strange happenings, like a man being attacked by a “dog wearing jeans” and a group of zombie cops. The series originally premiered in 2018, but it was only made available in the US in 2021.
Watch on HBO Max Watch on The CW In the dark comedy Made for Love , the always-charming Cristin Milioti is a put-upon wife who is on the run after spending a decade of her life married to—and controlled by—her tech billionaire husband. As she works to reestablish her life and regain her independence, she doesn’t realize that her husband has implanted a chip in her brain that not only tracks where she is, but allows him to watch her and read her thoughts. (Hey, we said dark comedy.) Watch on HBO Max Alan Tudyk stars as Dr. Harry Vanderspeigle, physician to the residents of a small town in Colorado and also an alien who crash-landed on Earth and assumed the identity of Dr. Harry Vanderspeigle. Fortunately for Harry, no one seems to notice the difference … except for a local kid who can somehow see Harry’s actual form.
Stream on Peacock Special offer: Get a 1-Year Subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
📩 The latest on tech, science, and more: Get our newsletters ! 4 dead infants, a convicted mother, and a genetic mystery The fall and rise of real-time strategy games A twist in the McDonald’s ice cream machine hacking saga The 9 best mobile game controllers I accidentally hacked a Peruvian crime ring 👁️ Explore AI like never before with our new database ✨ Optimize your home life with our Gear team’s best picks, from robot vacuums to affordable mattresses to smart speakers Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Business Who Is Mira Murati, OpenAI’s New Interim CEO? Steven Levy Topics Year in Review TV Shopping Angela Watercutter Jason Parham Jennifer M. Wood Angela Watercutter Matt Kamen Jason Parham Matt Kamen Matt Kamen Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
