Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Lauren Goode Gear The Biggest Windows 11 News Is an App Store Overhaul Led by CEO Satya Nadella, Microsoft has embraced openness like never before.
Photograph: Bloomberg/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Meet Microsoft, the champion of competitive marketplaces.
Not a sentence you’d ever expect to read 20 years ago. But Microsoft’s Windows 11 event today made it clear that the company wants to position itself as the anti-Apple, at least when it comes to distributing software. The upcoming version of Windows includes notable changes to the way Microsoft's app store works, at a time when regulators are scrutinizing the Apple App Store's and Google Play Store’s fees and competitive practices.
As part of the new Windows 11 , which will start rolling out to PCs by the 2021 holiday season, Google’s Android apps will run on Windows PCs, something that was technically possible before through emulator software but will now be functionally easier.
Microsoft chief product officer Panos Panay also said that Microsoft will allow developers to use their own payment platforms to charge customers, allowing them to keep 100 percent of any revenue they make from their apps. This is another stark contrast to App Store policies established by Apple, which has long insisted that developers use Apple’s payment technology and takes as much as 30 percent of any revenue generated from apps. The fight over payments sparked this year’s high-profile courtroom battle between Apple and Fortnite -maker Epic Games.
Windows has gone through dozens of iterations since it first launched in 1985. The last announced OS update, 10X, was going to be a retooled version of Windows 10 for hybrid computing devices, but last month Microsoft shelved it. Now, Microsoft has narrowed its focus again on the PC, during a time when PC sales have been revived by pandemic-driven demand. In the first quarter of this year, nearly 70 million PCs shipped around the world—the fastest year-over-year growth the personal computing industry has seen in two years.
“Through the pandemic, we kind of learned that we were trying to fit the PC in many ways into our lives. And it kind of flipped, where our lives had to fit into the PC for a while,” Panos says. “And so the PC should feel familiar and engaging, and like, remove itself, and try to get you to your best computing place.” In addition to the app store changes, Windows 11 will include a slew of visual updates, from a newly centered taskbar to transparent windows and slightly rounded edges on apps.
Per usual, Microsoft emphasized productivity above all else. The reduced opacity of windows, for example, is supposed to let users see what’s open behind their primary application and help them to switch tasks more efficiently. The infamous Start button will now fall bottom-center on the screen, rather than to the left, but tapping it will launch a panel of Windows widgets on the left—a “sheet of glass,” as Panay described it. New “Snap Layouts,” an expansion of an existing multi-window feature, will let users create custom window layouts and save these snapshots in the taskbar. Teams, Microsoft’s Zoom competitor, will be integrated more directly into the desktop UI.
“I just didn’t see any ‘wow’ during the announcement,” says Mika Kitagawa, a research director at Gartner. “Putting icons in the center, I don’t know if that’s a good idea because people got used to having the Start button on the lower-left side. And then things like transparency, I don’t know how important that is for productivity. It looks nice, but do we care much?” Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe The other substantive updates relate to gaming, and borrow heavily from the Xbox platform. Some Windows 11 PCs will now support automatic HDR, switching to higher contrast graphics in games when available, and a feature called Direct Storage, where game assets are preloaded onto the machine’s graphics card and rendered more quickly. But this will only work on PCs with the right set of drivers and a certain storage threshold.
People have certainly come to expect visual updates with new versions of operating systems, but the biggest Windows 11 news is how apps will run on Windows PCs. Some of these changes may be largely symbolic, but they still represent a relatively new Microsoft ethos toward “openness,” which it has stressed in recent device and software releases.
Android apps will become easier to use on Windows in Windows 11, another attempt to meld popular mobile apps like TikTok and Instagram with productivity suites on the same Microsoft machine. (Microsoft has struggled to get popular consumer apps on Windows in the past.) It’s still a bit of a runaround, because it requires downloading Android apps from the Amazon App Store, which runs on an open source fork of Android. Panay declined to answer whether Microsoft had approached Google to potentially run Google’s own Play Store on Windows 11.
The process will also rely on Intel technology to emulate the mobile apps—which are typically built for ARM architecture—on the PC. And it’s unclear which x86 chips will support this technology, called Intel Bridge.
So what’s the difference, if you could already run Android apps via an emulator on non-Android devices? Panay says the experience is now more integrated into the OS. Once you download an Android app, it will be “right there in recommended apps when you hit Start,” Panay says. You can pin it to the taskbar. You can properly “window” it, because in Microsoft’s world, window is a verb. But also, this is shipping in late 2021, he says, so there’s still a lot of work to be done.
As intriguing as the Android news is for Windows 11 users, the payments news is even more interesting for developers. Microsoft already offered app makers one of the “friendliest” deals around for distributing apps: It takes a 15 percent cut on most app sales, and just last month reduced that fee to 12 percent for gaming apps. In letting app makers handle their own payments, Microsoft puts even more pressure on Apple and Google to improve their terms—and can better attract developers to its own platform in the process.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Panay presents the idea as magnanimous: He says it’s about “helping developers build their businesses, and the history of Windows includes helping businesses be built. Some of the biggest businesses in the world were built on [Windows]. We’re pretty proud of that.” The primarily desktop-focused Windows app store is in many ways a different animal from the mobile iOS App Store and Google Play Store. (Though perhaps less so now given the embrace of Android apps.) Panay also acknowledges that Microsoft’s Windows app store is a fraction of the size of Apple and Google stores, and that one of the company’s most important and biggest money-making products is still its own Microsoft 365 software suite.
If anything, it’s a strange plot twist from the earliest days of personal computing, when Apple fashioned itself as the enabler of creatives who were trying to break free from evil overlords and Microsoft’s image vacillated between that of stodgy corporate software maker and overweening monopolist. Now Apple is at the center of federal antitrust investigations for potentially anti-competitive App Store practices, and Microsoft is positioning itself as the champion of smaller app makers. That just might be the biggest update to date.
📩 The latest on tech, science, and more: Get our newsletters ! One man's amazing journey to the center of a bowling ball The pandemic put an end to rush hour.
What happens now? Want to write better? Here are some tools to help Facial verification won't fight fraud Watch drones fly through a fake forest without crashing 👁️ Explore AI like never before with our new database 🎮 WIRED Games: Get the latest tips, reviews, and more 💻 Upgrade your work game with our Gear team’s favorite laptops , keyboards , typing alternatives , and noise-canceling headphones Senior Writer X Topics Microsoft Windows software Apps Julian Chokkattu Boone Ashworth Simon Hill Lauren Goode Julian Chokkattu Boone Ashworth David Nield Eric Ravenscraft WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Best Buy coupon: Score $300 off select laptops VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
