Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Lauren Goode Gear Apple Finally Refreshes Its iMac Desktop Computers Apple Save this story Save Save this story Save Apple has just refreshed its line of iMac all-in-one desktop computers, making another understated announcement in what appears to be a week of spring hardware updates for the company.
The iMac updates are largely focused on processing power, which nudge the machine closer to the performance levels of what you might consider a “pro” computer. But Apple is still carefully differentiating between a desktop that will appeal to families and small businesses, and the kind of iMac iPro that creative professionals will pay top dollar for.
The 21.5-inch iMac, the smaller desktop, previously came in two models: one without a Retina display and starting at $1,099, and another model with a 4K Retina display and a $1,299 starting price. The non-Retina, 21.5-inch Mac will stay the same. The 4K, 21.5-inch machine now comes with the option of a six-core, eighth-generation Intel Core i7 processor with Turbo Boost speeds up to 4.6 gigahertz. It can also be configured with a Radeon Pro Vega 20 graphics card, the same option that’s available on Apple’s top-of-the-line 15-inch MacBook Pro.
The 27-inch iMac, which has a 5K display, will have even more oomph. It’s configurable up to an eight-core, ninth-generation Intel Core i9 processor with Turbo Boost up to 5.0 GHz. This is the first Mac, desktop or otherwise, to run on Intel’s ninth-generation processors, the latest from the chipmaker.
The 27-inch iMac will also ship with the option of a Radeon Pro Vega 48 graphics card with 8 gigabytes of high-bandwidth memory. This is not only a notable update from the Radeon Pro graphics cards it shipped with before, it’s also nearing the graphics capabilities of the 27-inch iMac Pro, which ships with a Radeon Pro Vega 56 graphics processor and 8 gigabytes of high-bandwidth memory.
Both go on sale today and will show up in Apple Stores next week. The 21.5-inch iMac with a 4K display will start at $1,299, the same price as the one before it. That’s for a machine running on an eighth-generation quad-core Intel processor. Meanwhile, the 27-inch 5K model starts at $1,799. Higher-end configurations will almost certainly cost much more.
That’s a lot of numbers to parse through to try to determine if it’s worth the upgrade, so Apple is sharing some performance claims as well. The 21.5-inch machine is supposed to deliver up to 80 percent faster graphics performance than its predecessor and up to 60 percent faster performance overall. The 27-inch iMac is supposed to be ridiculously speedy compared to the one before it. Apple’s Logic Pro audio software is said to support twice the number of instruments and effects. Its Final Cut Pro video-editing software, meanwhile, should be able to handle multiple streams of 4K video on the same timeline. Third-party apps like Adobe Lightroom and Photoshop will also get a boost.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe This isn’t surprising when you consider that the last new iMacs shipped in June 2017, more than a year and a half ago, and the iMacs prior to that shipped in the fall of 2015. Apple refreshes its desktops less frequently than it does some of its other devices, like the iPhone, so significant upgrades are almost a given when they do happen.
One feature that’s still missing from Apple’s gorgeous desktop Macs—but appears in competing products, like Microsoft’s Surface Studio 2 —is a touchscreen. Part of Apple’s target market for this kind of desktop computer includes small business owners and creative professionals who would just as likely use a keyboard, mouse, and a digitizer tablet to get their work done. But Apple also sees a growing use case for iMac in the family room, with parents and kids alike browsing through media on the same machine. And yet, no touchscreen.
According to research firms IDC and Gartner, Apple’s Mac shipments during both the holiday season and for all of 2018 were down, consistent with the rest of the PC industry, which has been on a steady decline. Since Apple has decided to stop reporting unit sales numbers for its products, it’s hard to say whether Apple’s actual Mac unit sales are consistent with what outside firms are reporting. However, Apple’s revenue from Mac has been on the rise. For its fiscal first quarter of 2019, which included the holiday season, Apple saw Mac revenue rise to $7.4 billion, up from $6.8 billion the year before.
For gig workers, client interactions can get … weird Cambridge Analytica and the Great Privacy Awakening A ferocious shrimp inspires a plasma-shooting claw For avalanche safety, data is as important as proper gear How hackers pulled off a $20 million Mexican bank heist 👀 Looking for the latest gadgets? Check out our latest buying guides and best deals all year round 📩 Get even more of our inside scoops with our weekly Backchannel newsletter Senior Writer X Topics Computers apple Brenda Stolyar Brenda Stolyar Lauren Goode Boone Ashworth Julian Chokkattu Boone Ashworth Simon Hill Simon Hill WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
