Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts GOP Embraces Geoengineering … Which Terrifies Geoengineering Researchers By James Temple archive page Congressman Lamar Smith, who has relentlessly disputed the science behind climate change, now argues there may be ways to avoid the dangers of rising temperatures without overhauling America’s energy system.
“As the climate continues to change, geoengineering could become a tool to curb resulting impacts,” the Texas Republican said in his prepared opening remarks for a Wednesday subcommittee hearing on geoengineering, a blanket term for various technological means of deliberately altering the climate to offset the risks of global warming.
“Instead of forcing unworkable and costly government mandates on the American people, we should look to technology and innovation to lead the way to address climate change,” he added.
Researchers in the field have expressed growing concerns that the Trump administration or the Republican Party generally might attempt to do exactly what Smith’s remarks suggest: embrace geoengineering as a “technological fix” that sidesteps the need to slash greenhouse-gas emissions or change the energy industry’s practices.
In fact, scientists who have explored the potential of geoengineering techniques like stratospheric injection, cloud brightening, and cloud seeding have consistently stressed that at best these untested methods could reduce climate impacts on a limited scale while providing additional time to transition away from fossil fuels (see “ The Growing Case for Geoengineering ”).
But among other issues, researchers still don’t know how well geoengineering would work or what the negative side effects might be. It would also do little to address other massive effects of climate change, such as ocean acidification.
“Geoengineering is not a silver bullet, and treating it as one could greatly increase already severe climate change risks,” warned a group of 20 prominent scientists in a letter to Representative Smith and other legislators on Wednesday.
During his appearance at MIT Technology Review’s EmTech conference on Tuesday, Harvard professor David Keith warned about almost this exact eventuality. Were the GOP to embrace geoengineering technologies, a fragile coalition between scientists in this field and major environmental groups that have tentatively supported additional research could disintegrate, he said.
“In some ways the thing we fear the most is a tweet from Trump saying ‘Solar geoengineering solves everything—it’s great! We don’t need to bother to cut emissions,’” said Keith, a signatory to the letter who has also done extensive research into the potential of geoengineering (see “ A Cheap and Easy Plan to Stop Global Warming ”). “That would just really make it hard to proceed in a sensible way.” hide by James Temple Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 Zeyi Yang How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Deep Dive Uncategorized The Download: how to fight pandemics, and a top scientist turned-advisor Plus: Humane's Ai Pin has been unveiled By Rhiannon Williams archive page The race to destroy PFAS, the forever chemicals Scientists are showing these damaging compounds can be beat.
By John Wiegand archive page How scientists are being squeezed to take sides in the conflict between Israel and Palestine Tensions over the war are flaring on social media—with real-life ramifications.
By Antonio Regalado archive page These new tools could make AI vision systems less biased Two new papers from Sony and Meta describe novel methods to make bias detection fairer.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
