Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Apple says China’s Uighur Muslims were targeted in the recent iPhone hacking campaign The tech giant gave a rare statement that bristled at Google’s analysis of the novel hacking operation.
By Patrick Howell O'Neill archive page An Apple store in Shanghai. Photo: Richard Schneider CC BY NC 2.0 Photo: Richard Schneider CC BY NC 2.0 In the wake of one of the worst attacks ever against iPhone and iPad security, Apple issued a rare statement on Friday rebutting claims about the attack made by Google in a blog post last week.
The Google post said that hacked websites were used to “indiscriminately” attack individuals who visited them, through numerous critical vulnerabilities in iOS, the operating system that powers iPhones and iPads. These exploits were used to attack as many as thousands of victims per week, according to Google. However, according to Apple’s new statement, Google’s report left out or misrepresented key details.
Targets of attack: Apple’s new statement confirms that the hacking campaign targeted Uighurs, a Muslim minority in China, many of whom live in Xinjiang, a northwestern province where approximately a million people are being held in detention camps. A report last month detailed how Chinese officials put spyware apps on Uighurs’ phones , one of many surveillance techniques the government has used against Uighurs, Tibetans, and other dissidents.
Scale of attack: Apple disputed some key facts in Google’s report, which said that potentially thousands of iPhone users could have been hit every week in a two-year-long hacking campaign.
“First, the sophisticated attack was narrowly focused, not a broad-based exploit of iPhones ‘en masse’ as described. The attack affected fewer than a dozen websites that focus on content related to the Uighur community,” Apple wrote. “Google’s post, issued six months after iOS patches were released, creates the false impression of ‘mass exploitation’ to ‘monitor the private activities of entire populations in real time,’ stoking fear among all iPhone users that their devices had been compromised. This was never the case.” In a statement replying to Apple’s statement, a Google spokesperson said, “We stand by our in-depth research which was written to focus on the technical aspects of these vulnerabilities.” Length of attack: Apple asserted that the campaign lasted “roughly two months” and “not ‘two years’ as Google implies.” Apple says it fixed the problem shortly after it became aware of it. iPhone users who have updated their phones’ operating systems are protected.
Impact of attack: The overall thrust of Google’s report is not in question. The attack is one of the most serious, and successful, attacks ever perpetrated against iPhones. Not only is the number of people who were affected unclear, but so too is the impact on those individuals.
Amnesty International has detailed what it describe as “an effort by the Chinese government to wipe out religious beliefs and aspects of cultural identity in order to enforce political loyalty for the State and the Communist Party of China.” Apple, which does a large amount of business in China, never names the country, or the Chinese government, in its statement. Google likewise avoided any such characterizations.
hide by Patrick Howell O'Neill Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 Zeyi Yang How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Deep Dive Computing What’s next for the world’s fastest supercomputers Scientists have begun running experiments on Frontier, the world’s first official exascale machine, while facilities worldwide build other machines to join the ranks.
By Sophia Chen archive page AI-powered 6G networks will reshape digital interactions The convergence of AI and communication technologies will create 6G networks that make hyperconnectivity and immersive experiences an everyday reality for consumers.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page The power of green computing Sustainable computing practices have the power to both infuse operational efficiencies and greatly reduce energy consumption, says Jen Huffstetler, chief product sustainability officer at Intel.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page How this Turing Award–winning researcher became a legendary academic advisor Theoretical computer scientist Manuel Blum has guided generations of graduate students into fruitful careers in the field.
By Sheon Han archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
