Search @mouseenter="selectedIndex = index + '-' + key"> Search Result Tech Science Life Social Good Entertainment SHOP THE BEST Travel Product Reviews DEALS Newsletters VIDEOS > ChatGPT vs Bing vs Bard: You can pick the best in this chatbot arena Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Flipboard Which LLM is winning the top spot? Credit: Getty Images Want to know how ChatGPT , Bing , and Bard stack up against each other? Welcome to the Chatbot Arena.
A UC Berkeley research group in partnership with UC San Diego and Carnegie Mellon University has devised an experiment where users can chat with two anonymous models at the same time and vote for the best one. Chatbot Arena includes LLMs from Open AI (GPT-4), Google (PaLM), Meta (LLaMA), and Anthropic's Claude, as well as other models built using these companies' APIs.
SEE ALSO: When you enter a prompt in the Chatbot Arena, two anonymous models give their responses. Once you cast your vote, the experiment tells you which model you voted for. You can also experiment with side-by-side comparisons of different models and check the leaderboard for the top voted model.
Which chatbot was the better Karen? I voted for A.
Credit: LMSYS Org The research group, called Large Model Systems Organization (LMSYS) created the crowdsourced experiment as a way to effectively benchmark the many LLMs that have proliferated recently. "Benchmarking LLM assistants is extremely challenging because the problems can be open-ended, and it is very difficult to write a program to automatically evaluate the response quality," said the LMSYS blog post announcing Chatbot Arena. So far, more than 40,000 votes have been cast.
ChatGPT, Google Bard produce free Windows 11 keys Google I/O 2023 unveils PaLM 2 large language model Microsoft's Yusuf Mehdi sheds light on the Bing/Google rivalry So which LLM is the best? So far, that honor goes to GPT-4. In second place is Anthropic's Claude-v1, followed by Claude Instant, which is Anthropic's lighter, faster version of Claude. Check out the leaderboard for the full results, and try out the Chatbot Arena for yourself on the LMSYS website.
Topics Artificial Intelligence ChatGPT Cecily is a tech reporter at Mashable who covers AI, Apple, and emerging tech trends. Before getting her master's degree at Columbia Journalism School, she spent several years working with startups and social impact businesses for Unreasonable Group and B Lab. Before that, she co-founded a startup consulting business for emerging entrepreneurial hubs in South America, Europe, and Asia. You can find her on Twitter at @cecily_mauran.
Loading...
Subscribe TECH SCIENCE LIFE SOCIAL GOOD ENTERTAINMENT BEST PRODUCTS DEALS About Mashable Contact Us We're Hiring Newsletters Sitemap About Ziff Davis Privacy Policy Terms of Use Advertise Accessibility Do Not Sell My Personal Information AdChoices
