Toggle Navigation News Events TNW Conference 2024 June 20 & 21, 2024 TNW Vision: 2024 All events Spaces Programs Newsletters Partner with us Jobs Contact News news news news Latest Deep tech Sustainability Ecosystems Data and security Fintech and ecommerce Future of work More Startups and technology Investors and funding Government and policy Corporates and innovation Gadgets & apps Early bird Business passes are 90% SOLD OUT 🎟️ Buy now before they are gone → This article was published on May 26, 2023 Data and security Opinion: Tech lords threatening to pull services should stop crying wolf Just do it, Sam — I dare ya Image by: TechCrunch (edited) Sam Altman, the CEO of OpenAI , really wants AI regulation. Truly, madly, deeply, he wants it. Because of safety and stuff. Unless, of course, it’s the type of regulation that he doesn’t want. If that’s the case, he’ll threaten to withdraw his services instead.
Altman issued the warning this week during a tour of European regulators. He said OpenAI could “cease operating” in the EU if it can’t comply with the bloc’s impending AI Act.
The 38-year-old is particularly worried about the plans for “high-risk” systems. Under the current proposals, OpenAI’s ChatGPT and GPT-4 models would both be designated high-risk, which would make them subject to extra obligations before entering the market.
Another thorny issue for OpenAI is the new rules for generative models. As it stands, the legislation will require generative AI companies to disclose any copyrighted material used to train their systems. This condition was added after an outcry from artists, who say their work is being scraped and monetised without their consent.
Get your ticket NOW for TNW Conference - Super Earlybird is 90% sold out! Unleash innovation, connect with thousands of tech lovers and shape the future on June 20-21, 2024.
Altman, however, described the proposed AI Act as “over-regulating.” “If we can comply, we will, and if we can’t, we’ll cease operating… We will try. But there are technical limits to what’s possible,” he said, according to Time.
Altman’s response has been compared to a blackmail attempt by lawmakers.
 P ropitiously, it’s an experience that they’ve withstood before.
Put up or shut up OpenAI is far from the first tech firm to threaten regulators with a product withdrawal.
Google has threatened to pull its search engine from Australia.
 WhatsApp has threatened to block its service in the UK.
 Meta has threatened to shut down Facebook and Instagram in Europe on multiple occasions.
 Microsoft has even threatened to remove Windows from unruly US states. To date, none of the threats has been fulfilled.
In Altman’s case, the U-turn came just a day later.
“We are excited to continue to operate here and of course have no plans to leave,” he tweeted on Friday.
very productive week of conversations in europe about how to best regulate AI! we are excited to continue to operate here and of course have no plans to leave.
— Sam Altman (@sama) May 26, 2023 Altman is unlikely to be the last tech boss to backtrack on a warning to regulators. But the empty rhetoric is starting to sound like boys crying wolf.
If they want to be taken seriously, one of them should follow through on a threat — or just accept that Silicon Valley can’t always get what it wants.
Story by Thomas Macaulay Senior reporter Thomas is a senior reporter at TNW. He covers European tech, with a focus on deeptech, startups, and government policy.
Thomas is a senior reporter at TNW. He covers European tech, with a focus on deeptech, startups, and government policy.
Get the TNW newsletter Get the most important tech news in your inbox each week.
Also tagged with Artificial intelligence Europe OpenAI Story by Thomas Macaulay Popular articles 1 Musk mulls removing X, formerly Twitter, from EU to dodge disinformation laws 2 TikTok complies with EU demands against Israel-Hamas disinformation 3 German anti-racism agency quits X amid Israel-Hamas disinformation wave 4 EU online piracy on the rise as consumers feel the pinch 5 Ukraine’s fight against disinformation is creating a new startup sector Related Articles data security Netherlands building own version of ChatGPT amid quest for safer AI deep tech World-first AI safety deal exposes agenda set in Silicon Valley, critics say Join TNW All Access Watch videos of our inspiring talks for free → fintech ecommerce Amazon to launch ‘sovereign’ European cloud amid data privacy concerns deep tech DeepMind says its new AI system is the world’s most accurate 10-day weather forecaster The heart of tech More TNW Media Events Programs Spaces Newsletters Jobs in tech About TNW Partner with us Jobs Terms & Conditions Cookie Statement Privacy Statement Editorial Policy Masthead Copyright © 2006—2023, The Next Web B.V. Made with <3 in Amsterdam.
