Toggle Navigation News Events TNW Conference 2024 June 20 & 21, 2024 TNW Vision: 2024 All events Spaces Programs Newsletters Partner with us Jobs Contact News news news news Latest Deep tech Sustainability Ecosystems Data and security Fintech and ecommerce Future of work More Startups and technology Investors and funding Government and policy Corporates and innovation Gadgets & apps Early bird Business passes are 90% SOLD OUT 🎟️ Buy now before they are gone → This article was published on February 12, 2020 Deep tech Oh great, the EU has ditched its facial recognition ban Member states can make their own decisions on the tech Image by: European Union, 2018 The European Union is backing away from its plan to introduce a temporary ban on facial recognition technology — instead delegating decisions on the software to its member states.
In a previous draft of a paper on AI, the European Commission had proposed introducing a five-year moratorium on the technology. But in a new draft seen by the Financial Times , that suggestion has been dropped.
“The early draft floated the idea of a full ban, which is very popular among civil rights campaigners worried about abuse,” a person with direct knowledge of the discussions told the FT.
 “But the security community is against the ban because they think it’s a good tool.” The new draft does give individual member states the power to impose prohibitions on the technology as they see fit — but they have thus far been reluctant to do this.
Get your ticket NOW for TNW Conference - Super Earlybird is 90% sold out! Unleash innovation, connect with thousands of tech lovers and shape the future on June 20-21, 2024.
There have only been a few exceptions, including data protection authorities in France and Sweden, which ruled that uses of such software in schools was illegal. Both authorities found that the projects violated the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which states that biometric data is prohibited from processing — unless it meets a range of exceptional circumstances.
[Read: Here’s how face recognition tech can be GDPR compliant] This led the UK’s data watchdog to rule to allow police to use facial recognition CCTV, as it met “the threshold of strict necessity for law enforcement purposes.” Global differences The UK is one of range of nations that are accelerating their deployments of facial recognition. Last December, China ruled that anyone registering a mobile phone service must undergo a face scan — a law that would affect 850 million mobile users in the country — while in India, the government is preparing to install an enormous facial recognition system that would cover the entire country.
Other jurisdictions have been imposing restrictions on the software. Last October, California became the third state in the US to ban facial recognition technology in police body cameras, while a range of the legislators in the country’s cities — which can often act quicker than state and national legislators — have also been imposing local restrictions.
Governments that aren’t prepared to ban facial recognition are learning that citizens will take their own measures to avoid the technology.
In Russia and the UK , activists are donning makeup to hide from facial recognition, while in Hong Kong, protestors have been destroying CCTV systems equipped with the technology.
You’re here because you want to learn more about artificial intelligence. So do we. So this summer, we’re bringing Neural to TNW Conference 2020, where we will host a vibrant program dedicated exclusively to AI. With keynotes by experts from companies like Spotify, RSA, and Medium, our Neural track will take a deep dive into new innovations, ethical problems, and how AI can transform businesses.
Get your early bird ticket and check out the full Neural track.
Story by Thomas Macaulay Senior reporter Thomas is a senior reporter at TNW. He covers European tech, with a focus on deeptech, startups, and government policy.
Thomas is a senior reporter at TNW. He covers European tech, with a focus on deeptech, startups, and government policy.
Get the TNW newsletter Get the most important tech news in your inbox each week.
Also tagged with China European Union Ban (law) United Kingdom Facial recognition Government General Data Protection Regulation Story by Thomas Macaulay Popular articles 1 New erotic roleplaying chatbots promise to indulge your sexual fantasies 2 UK plan to lead in generative AI ‘unrealistic,’ say Cambridge researchers 3 New AI tool could make future vaccines ‘variant-proof,’ researchers say 4 3D-printed stem cells could help treat brain injuries 5 New technique makes AI hallucinations wake up and face reality Related Articles tech How China’s ban on ‘sissy men’ is impacting big tech gaming Here’s what’s wrong with China’s 3-hours-a-week rule to curb kids’ gaming addiction Join TNW All Access Watch videos of our inspiring talks for free → deep tech An end to constant cookie warnings? UK plans post-Brexit overhaul of data laws china China bans LGBT WeChat groups because… it can? The heart of tech More TNW Media Events Programs Spaces Newsletters Jobs in tech About TNW Partner with us Jobs Terms & Conditions Cookie Statement Privacy Statement Editorial Policy Masthead Copyright © 2006—2023, The Next Web B.V. Made with <3 in Amsterdam.
