The Verge homepage The Verge homepage The Verge The Verge logo.
/ Tech / Reviews / Science / Entertainment / More Menu Expand Menu Artificial Intelligence / Tech / Policy The New York Times blocks OpenAI’s web crawler The New York Times blocks OpenAI’s web crawler / The NYT’s robot.txt page that controls how it appears to automated bots built to index the internet now specifically disallows OpenAI’s GPTBot.
By Jay Peters and Wes Davis | Share this story The New York Times has blocked OpenAI’s web crawler, meaning that OpenAI can’t use content from the publication to train its AI models. If you check the NYT’s robots.txt page , you can see that the NYT disallows GPTBot, the crawler that OpenAI introduced earlier this month.
 Based on the Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine, it appears NYT blocked the crawler as early as August 17th.
The change comes after the NYT updated its terms of service at the beginning of this month to prohibit the use of its content to train AI models.
New York Times spokesperson Charlie Stadtlander spokesperson declined to comment. OpenAI didn’t immediately reply to a request for comment.
The NYT is also considering legal action against OpenAI for intellectual property rights violations, NPR reported last week. If it did sue, the Times would be joining others like Sarah Silverman and two other authors who sued the company in July over its use of Books3, a dataset used to train ChatGPT that may have thousands of copyrighted works, as well as Matthew Butterick, a programmer and lawyer who alleges the company’s data scraping practices amount to software piracy.
Update August 21st, 7:55PM ET : The New York Times declined to comment.
OpenAI board in discussions with Sam Altman to return as CEO Sam Altman fired as CEO of OpenAI Windows is now an app for iPhones, iPads, Macs, and PCs Screens are good, actually What happened to Sam Altman? Verge Deals / Sign up for Verge Deals to get deals on products we've tested sent to your inbox daily.
From our sponsor Advertiser Content From More from this stream Bing, Bard, and ChatGPT: How AI is rewriting the internet OpenAI’s flagship AI model has gotten more trustworthy but easier to trick Oct 17, 2023, 9:38 PM UTC The environmental impact of the AI revolution is starting to come into focus Oct 10, 2023, 3:00 PM UTC The BBC is blocking OpenAI data scraping but is open to AI-powered journalism Oct 6, 2023, 8:16 PM UTC OpenAI may make its own chips to power future generative AI growth.
Oct 6, 2023, 1:52 PM UTC Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell Or Share My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status How We Rate and Review Products Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement The Verge is a vox media network Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2023 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved
