Account overview Billing Profile Emails & marketing Data privacy Settings Help Comments & replies Sign out switch to the US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition current edition: The Guardian - Back to home News US news World news Environment US politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA NHL F1 Golf Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money What term do you want to search? Search with google Support us Print subscriptions US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Facebook Twitter Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show More US World Environment US Politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Today in Focus Chatbots Are chatbots coming for your job? Apple Podcasts Google Podcasts Spotify RSS Feed Download Presented by Nosheen Iqbal with Chris Stokel-Walker ; produced by Tom Glasser and Solomon King ; executive producer Elizabeth Cassin Thu 16 Feb 2023 22.00 EST Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share via Email A high-stakes race for supremacy in artificial intelligence is playing out between two of the world’s biggest tech companies. Should we be worried or excited? Chris Stokel-Walker reports How to listen to podcasts: everything you need to know After years of almost unrivalled dominance of the way we search out information on the internet, Google has suddenly found itself playing catch-up in the sphere of chatbots. The launch of ChatGPT by OpenAI has already had a huge impact. Users have marvelled at its ability to generate human-like written text even when given highly specialised prompts. It has already been widely used by students to write full and passable essays. It can churn out news stories based on available public information, and even make reasonable attempts at poetry and song-writing.
As the technology reporter Chris Stokel-Walker tells Nosheen Iqbal, the technology is still in its infancy but is already proving to be a game-changer. It could jeopardise the careers of anyone who interprets information and generates written reports or commands. And the possible negative effects don’t end there: the bots are only as good as the raw data they are drawing on – and much of that will be biased, false or even hateful. If the power of artificial intelligence is to be used for good, the race is now on to regulate and control it.
The Guardian is editorially independent. And we want to keep our journalism open and accessible to all. But we increasingly need our readers to fund our work.
Topics Chatbots Today in Focus ChatGPT Microsoft Google Artificial intelligence (AI) Search engines Most popular US World Environment US Politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top Close
