Account overview Billing Profile Emails & marketing Data privacy Settings Help Comments & replies Sign out switch to the US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition current edition: The Guardian - Back to home News US news World news Environment US politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA NHL F1 Golf Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money What term do you want to search? Search with google Support us Print subscriptions US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Facebook Twitter Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show More US World Environment US Politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Neuroscience Will this fix me? Oh no! I’m sorry to report that cold plunges are great A look into the breathtaking wellness trend beloved by athletes and celebrities from Lizzo to Joe Rogan Published: 14 Nov 2023 Oh no! I’m sorry to report that cold plunges are great Singing by boys’ choir ‘sounds more brilliant’ when girls in audience Just as frogs and crickets alter calls to attract mates, study shows male singers boost vocals in front of female onlookers Published: 7 Nov 2023 Singing by boys’ choir ‘sounds more brilliant’ when girls in audience Science Weekly Understanding the science of addiction – podcast After Matthew Perry’s death, a clip of the actor debating the science of addiction went viral. Ian Sample discusses our understanding of addiction with the director of the US National Institute on Drug Abuse, Nora Volkow Podcast Published: 7 Nov 2023 Understanding the science of addiction – podcast Play Video Spinal implant allows Parkinson's patient to walk again in world first – video The first patient to receive a spinal implant to treat advanced Parkinson's disease has described experiencing 'a rebirth' after the treatment allowed him to walk again without falling over.
1:23 Published: 6 Nov 2023 Spinal implant allows Parkinson's patient to walk again in world first – video Parkinson’s patient able to walk 6km without problems after spinal implant Published: 6 Nov 2023 Parkinson’s patient able to walk 6km without problems after spinal implant Rats may have power of imagination, research reveals Published: 2 Nov 2023 Rats may have power of imagination, research reveals Press pause on the use of artificial intelligence in public services Published: 1 Nov 2023 Published: 1 Nov 2023 Press pause on the use of artificial intelligence in public services 3 out of 5 stars.
Blank review – author held hostage by AI as near-future thriller enters Misery territory 3 out of 5 stars.
There’s some inspired direction as Misery meets Ex Machina in this sci-fi psychological thriller Published: 30 Oct 2023 Blank review – author held hostage by AI as near-future thriller enters Misery territory Race to AI: the origins of artificial intelligence, from Turing to ChatGPT Published: 28 Oct 2023 Race to AI: the origins of artificial intelligence, from Turing to ChatGPT David says ketamine was a ‘lifesaver’ for his depression. So why are many in Australia missing out? Published: 24 Oct 2023 David says ketamine was a ‘lifesaver’ for his depression. So why are many in Australia missing out? Is AI more creative than the human brain? I doubt it – and I definitely want humans to stay in charge Stefan Stern Published: 22 Oct 2023 Published: 22 Oct 2023 Is AI more creative than the human brain? I doubt it – and I definitely want humans to stay in charge Myopia, allergies, sex: some things improve the older you get, say experts Published: 20 Oct 2023 Myopia, allergies, sex: some things improve the older you get, say experts Science Weekly Could AI help diagnose schizophrenia? Podcast Published: 19 Oct 2023 Could AI help diagnose schizophrenia? Goalkeepers perceive the world differently, study suggests Published: 9 Oct 2023 Goalkeepers perceive the world differently, study suggests Pregnancy leads to permanent rewiring of brain, study suggests Published: 5 Oct 2023 Pregnancy leads to permanent rewiring of brain, study suggests How AI and brain science are helping perfumiers create fragrances Published: 1 Oct 2023 How AI and brain science are helping perfumiers create fragrances Science Weekly Could we end migraines for good? – podcast Dehenna Davison recently resigned as a UK minister, explaining that chronic migraines were making it impossible for her to do her job. Madeleine Finlay meets Prof Peter Goadsby, whose research underpins a new drug for acute migraines, to find out whether we might one day be able to wave goodbye to migraines for good Podcast Published: 28 Sep 2023 Could we end migraines for good? – podcast 4 out of 5 stars.
The Creator review – vast and exhilarating sci-fi actioner rages against the AI machine 4 out of 5 stars.
Director Gareth Edwards draws together the many strands of our current AI debate with tremendous boldness, conjuring up an intriguing and stimulating spectacle Published: 26 Sep 2023 The Creator review – vast and exhilarating sci-fi actioner rages against the AI machine Science Weekly Deja vu’s lesser-known opposite: why do we experience jamais vu? – podcast There’s a sensation many of us might have experienced: when something routine or recognisable suddenly feels strange and unfamiliar. It’s known as jamais vu, or ‘never seen’. Research into this odd feeling recently won an Ig Nobel prize, which is awarded to science that makes you laugh, then think. Ian Sample speaks to Ig Nobel recipient Dr Akira O’Connor about why he wanted to study jamais vu, what he thinks is happening in our brains, and what it could teach us about memory going right, and wrong Podcast Published: 26 Sep 2023 Deja vu’s lesser-known opposite: why do we experience jamais vu? – podcast Jellyfish show how you don’t need a brain to learn, say researchers Adjustment of behaviour shown in study suggests learning is integral function of neurons Published: 22 Sep 2023 Jellyfish show how you don’t need a brain to learn, say researchers About 2,217 results for Neuroscience 1 … next Topics Health (Society) Artificial intelligence (AI) Consciousness Computing Medical research US World Environment US Politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top Close
