Account overview Billing Profile Emails & marketing Data privacy Settings Help Comments & replies Sign out switch to the US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition current edition: The Guardian - Back to home News US news World news Environment US politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA NHL F1 Golf Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money What term do you want to search? Search with google Support us Print subscriptions US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Facebook Twitter Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show More Education Schools Teachers Universities Students Computer science and IT The Guardian documentary Ilya: The AI scientist shaping the world Ilya Sutskever, one of the leading AI scientists behind ChatGPT, reflects on his founding vision and values. In conversations with the film-maker Tonje Hessen Schei as he was developing the chat language model between 2016 and 2019, he describes his personal philosophy and makes startling predictions for a technology already shaping our world.
Published: 2 Nov 2023 Ilya: The AI scientist shaping the world University Guide 2024 Best UK universities for computer science & information systems – league table The study of the design and technology of computing - includes information systems, software engineering, programming and artificial intelligence Published: 9 Sep 2023 Best UK universities for computer science & information systems – league table Alex Bellos's Monday puzzle Did you solve it? Are you brainy at binary? Published: 2:10 AM Did you solve it? Are you brainy at binary? Alex Bellos's Monday puzzle Can you solve it? Are you brainy at binary? Published: 2:10 AM Can you solve it? Are you brainy at binary? When I lost my job, I learned to code. Now AI doom mongers are trying to scare me all over again Tristan Cross Silicon Valley wants to make us believe humans are predictable and our skills replaceable. I’ve learned that’s nonsense, says culture writer Tristan Cross Published: 12 Jun 2023 Published: 12 Jun 2023 When I lost my job, I learned to code. Now AI doom mongers are trying to scare me all over again Other lives John Wurr obituary Other lives: Leading trad jazz clarinettist and saxophonist who spent the other half of his life as a computer and IT specialist Published: 10 Apr 2023 John Wurr obituary Alex Bellos's Monday puzzle Can you solve it? The science of streaming How to count without counting Published: 6 Mar 2023 Can you solve it? The science of streaming Alex Bellos's Monday puzzle Did you solve it? Prisoners and boxes The answer to today’s puzzle Published: 12:00 PM Did you solve it? Prisoners and boxes Alex Bellos's Monday puzzle Can you solve it? Prisoners and boxes Using brain cells in prison cells Published: 2:12 AM Can you solve it? Prisoners and boxes University Guide 2023 Best UK universities for computer science & information systems – league table The study of the design and technology of computing - includes information systems, software engineering, programming and artificial intelligence Published: 24 Sep 2022 Best UK universities for computer science & information systems – league table More GCSE students choose computing over PE for the first time Subject’s popularity increases almost fivefold since introduction in 2014 Published: 25 Aug 2022 More GCSE students choose computing over PE for the first time Other lives Richard Bird obituary Other lives: Computer scientist whose polished style led to his being known as the ‘poet laureate of functional programming’ Published: 3 Jun 2022 Richard Bird obituary Alex Bellos's Monday puzzle Can you solve it? An Oxford University admissions question Hands on buzzers Published: 21 Feb 2022 Can you solve it? An Oxford University admissions question Women in technology Why aren’t more girls in the UK choosing to study computing and technology? As the proportion of girls taking these subjects remains low, teachers reveal why they believe that is and what they’re doing about it Published: 28 Jun 2021 Why aren’t more girls in the UK choosing to study computing and technology? Crime, poverty and why regeneration must start with people Letters: It’s not more social science data we need, it’s the will to act, writes Nicholas Bradbury , while Lesley Evans says our education system needs a rethink Published: 21 Apr 2021 Published: 21 Apr 2021 Crime, poverty and why regeneration must start with people Alex Bellos's Monday puzzle Did you solve it? The crazy maths of crypto The solution to today’s puzzle about trust, secrets and the world’s weirdest proof Published: 22 Mar 2021 Did you solve it? The crazy maths of crypto Alex Bellos's Monday puzzle Can you solve it? The crazy maths of crypto Published: 22 Mar 2021 Can you solve it? The crazy maths of crypto UK digital skills shortage risks Covid recovery as young people shun IT courses Published: 21 Mar 2021 UK digital skills shortage risks Covid recovery as young people shun IT courses Other lives Anthony Hoskyns obituary Other Lives : Innovative physics teacher who helped to set up centres for disadvantaged young people in inner cities Published: 10 Feb 2021 Anthony Hoskyns obituary Science Weekly A more accurate way of measuring the effect of computer games – podcast The Guardian’s UK technology editor Alex Hern speaks to Prof Andy Przybylski from the Oxford Internet Institute about pioneering new research on the impact of computer games on mental health Podcast Published: 24 Nov 2020 A more accurate way of measuring the effect of computer games – podcast About 294 results for Computer science and IT 1 … next Topics Mathematics (Education) Mathematics (Science) Computing Higher education Schools Education Schools Teachers Universities Students News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top Close
