Account overview Billing Profile Emails & marketing Data privacy Settings Help Comments & replies Sign out switch to the US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition current edition: The Guardian - Back to home News US news World news Environment US politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA NHL F1 Golf Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money What term do you want to search? Search with google Support us Print subscriptions US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Facebook Twitter Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show More US World Environment US Politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Virtual reality The latest virtual reality news, opinion, features and reviews.
For virtual reality projects created by the Guardian visit this page AI Vincent van Gogh talks of ‘mental health struggles’ in Paris exhibition Musée d’Orsay adds AI and VR to display of artist’s last works, never previously seen together Published: 2 Oct 2023 AI Vincent van Gogh talks of ‘mental health struggles’ in Paris exhibition Rage against the machine? Why AI may not mean the death of film Published: 8 Sep 2023 Rage against the machine? Why AI may not mean the death of film Venice’s brave new world: my cosmic trip to Immersion Island and back Published: 4 Sep 2023 Venice’s brave new world: my cosmic trip to Immersion Island and back Birmingham Royal Ballet uses virtual reality to make dance more accessible Company aims to allow those unable to go to the theatre, including neurodivergent people, the elderly and children, to enjoy its shows Published: 30 Aug 2023 Birmingham Royal Ballet uses virtual reality to make dance more accessible ‘The night is literally in my hands’: what it’s like to attend an acid house rave – in virtual reality Published: 12 Aug 2023 ‘The night is literally in my hands’: what it’s like to attend an acid house rave – in virtual reality ‘Even closing my eyes is an intense movement’: the VR experience that simulates a serious neurological condition Published: 9 Aug 2023 ‘Even closing my eyes is an intense movement’: the VR experience that simulates a serious neurological condition Melbourne international film festival 2023: 10 things to see and do, from BlackBerry to new Kelly Reichardt Plus Josh O’Connor as a grumpy archaeologist, Hugo Weaving as a scabby hermit, and a queer noir – all part of Miff’s 71st edition Published: 11 Jul 2023 Melbourne international film festival 2023: 10 things to see and do, from BlackBerry to new Kelly Reichardt Apple’s Vision Pro VR is incredible technology but is it useful? The new product is far ahead of its competition; however, it is not clear that there is a pressing need for it or that most people can afford it Published: 6 Jun 2023 Apple’s Vision Pro VR is incredible technology but is it useful? TechScape TechScape: Is Apple’s $3,500 Vision Pro more than just another tech toy for the rich? Published: 6 Jun 2023 TechScape: Is Apple’s $3,500 Vision Pro more than just another tech toy for the rich? Apple reveals Vision Pro AR headset at its worldwide developers conference Published: 5 Jun 2023 Apple reveals Vision Pro AR headset at its worldwide developers conference TechScape TechScape: Will Apple’s new VR headset be the one to finally catch on? In this week’s newsletter: The $3,000 product could be the next Apple gamechanger – or just another cool toy for those who can afford it Published: 30 May 2023 TechScape: Will Apple’s new VR headset be the one to finally catch on? Mark Zuckerberg’s metaverse vision is over. Can Apple save it? Published: 21 May 2023 Mark Zuckerberg’s metaverse vision is over. Can Apple save it? The networker A moment’s silence, please, for the death of Mark Zuckerberg’s metaverse John Naughton Published: 13 May 2023 Published: 13 May 2023 A moment’s silence, please, for the death of Mark Zuckerberg’s metaverse Science Weekly Could virtual reality gaming help people overcome anxiety? – podcast Madeleine Finlay speaks to science correspondent Linda Geddes about trying out a virtual reality game that challenges you to keep your heart-rate down while facing a terrifying monster, why it could help with tackling anxiety, and whether the gamification of coping strategies could be the best way to integrate them into our every day lives Podcast Published: 18 Apr 2023 Could virtual reality gaming help people overcome anxiety? – podcast Tech guru Jaron Lanier: ‘The danger isn’t that AI destroys us. It’s that it drives us insane’ The godfather of virtual reality has worked beside the web’s visionaries and power-brokers – but likes nothing more than to show the flaws of technology. He discusses how we can make AI work for us, how the internet takes away choice – and why he would ban TikTok Published: 23 Mar 2023 Tech guru Jaron Lanier: ‘The danger isn’t that AI destroys us. It’s that it drives us insane’ Pushing Buttons Pushing Buttons: The PlayStation VR 2 might be the next big thing, if you can handle the nausea – and the cost In this week’s newsletter: Though costly, the PSVR2 is the most usable virtual gaming device yet – even for sceptics like me Published: 22 Feb 2023 Pushing Buttons: The PlayStation VR 2 might be the next big thing, if you can handle the nausea – and the cost Regional theatres are on their knees – support your local one Tim Crouch Covid cut off the communal experience of live performance and venues have taken a battering. Let’s return and reconnect Published: 10 Feb 2023 Published: 10 Feb 2023 Regional theatres are on their knees – support your local one Scary monsters: how virtual reality could help people cope with anxiety Guardian science correspondent is put to the test in the panic-inducing VR world of a game that teaches breathing technique Published: 13 Jan 2023 Scary monsters: how virtual reality could help people cope with anxiety ‘The metaverse will be our slow death!’ Is Facebook losing its $100bn gamble on virtual reality? The company now known as Meta has spent staggering amounts on creating an immersive successor to the traditional 2D internet. But what has it got to show for it, apart from 11,000 job losses? Published: 7 Dec 2022 ‘The metaverse will be our slow death!’ Is Facebook losing its $100bn gamble on virtual reality? ‘Extinction is on the table’: Jaron Lanier warns of tech’s existential threat to humanity The American computer scientist, who coined the term ‘virtual reality,’ cautions against online ‘psychological operatives’ Published: 27 Nov 2022 ‘Extinction is on the table’: Jaron Lanier warns of tech’s existential threat to humanity About 583 results for Virtual reality 1 … next Topics Computing Apple Artificial intelligence (AI) Mark Zuckerberg Festivals US World Environment US Politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top Close
