Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Sponsored Driving companywide efficiencies with AI Advanced AI and ML capabilities revolutionize how administrative and operations tasks are done.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page In partnership with Teleperformance Autonomous shopping carts that follow grocery store customers and robots that pick ripe cucumbers faster than humans may grab headlines, but the most compelling applications of AI and ML technology are behind the scenes. Increasingly, organizations are finding substantial efficiency gains by applying AI- and ML-powered tools to back-office procedures such as document processing, data entry, employee onboarding, and workflow automation.
The power of automation to augment productivity in the back office has been clear for decades, but the recent emergence of advanced AI and ML tools offers a step change in what automation can accomplish, including in highly regulated industries such as health care.
Driving companywide efficiencies with AI Download the report “In the past, AI was seen as a complex and expensive technology that was only accessible to large companies with deep pockets,” says Himadri Sarkar, executive vice president and global head of consulting at Teleperformance, a digital business services company. “However, the development of easy-to-use generative AI tools has made it possible for businesses of all sizes to experiment with AI and see how it can benefit their operations.” Organizations are taking note with innovative use cases that not only promise to improve back-office operations but also deliver bottom-line benefits, from cost savings to productivity gains.
AI in action According to McKinsey’s 2022 Global Survey on AI, AI adoption has more than doubled—from 20% of respondents having adopted AI in at least one business area in 2017 to 50% today. It’s easy to understand this technology’s growing popularity: as challenging economic times meet increasing customer expectations, organizations are being asked to do more with less.
“Companies are trying to optimize their use of resources in an inflationary environment,” says Omer Minkara, vice president and principal analyst with Aberdeen Strategy and Research. “Adding to the pressure is the fact that many companies have to defer their technology spend and headcount increases.” Fortunately, AI and ML solutions can help bridge this gap for a wide range of industries by automating and optimizing various back-office tasks and processes. A retailer, for example, may use AI-powered chatbots to handle routine customer inquiries, track orders, and respond to refund requests, improving response times, enhancing customer experience, and freeing up contact center agents. At the same time, financial institutions are discovering the power of ML to identify anomalies within large volumes of data that may indicate fraud—an early warning system against financial loss. Organizations across industries can employ AI and ML tools to extract and analyze information from documents, such as invoices, contracts, and reports, and to reduce the burden of manual data entry while speeding up processing times and minimizing human errors.
Download the full report This content was produced by Insights, the custom content arm of MIT Technology Review. It was not written by MIT Technology Review’s editorial staff.
by MIT Technology Review Insights Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos New approaches to the tech talent shortage MIT Technology Review Insights Deep Dive Artificial intelligence This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI The tool, called Nightshade, messes up training data in ways that could cause serious damage to image-generating AI models.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Rogue superintelligence and merging with machines: Inside the mind of OpenAI’s chief scientist An exclusive conversation with Ilya Sutskever on his fears for the future of AI and why they’ve made him change the focus of his life’s work.
By Will Douglas Heaven archive page Generative AI deployment: Strategies for smooth scaling Our global poll examines key decision points for putting AI to use in the enterprise.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page Make machine learning work for you Achieve "ML democratization" and generate proof points by intaking problem statements, not technical requirements.
By David Kang archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
