Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Scott Gilbertson Gear It Is Time to Outsource Your Passwords to an App Photograph: Nicolle Clemetson Save this story Save Save this story Save Note: This is an abridged version of our in-depth Best Password Managers guide. It was published in our November print issue.
Bitwarden is the most transparently secure password manager we tested; it's built on open source code that's subject to regular security audits. The app is also free, making it a good choice for the password-manager curious. Advanced users like the ability to study the code, and they can even host Bitwarden on their own server. The free account has no limitations, but premium accounts ($10 a year) offer extras like support for logging in with a YubiKey and advice on strengthening your passwords.
The most user-friendly service of this bunch, 1Password seamlessly integrates with login windows to autofill passwords across all your browsers and apps. This is especially true on iOS, where the procedure is smoother than it is on other platforms. Features like Travel Mode, which automatically deletes sensitive data from devices before you go on a trip, and Watchtower, which identifies weak or reused passwords, help justify the cost: $36 a year for one user, $60 for the whole family.
A comprehensive, step-by-step setup makes Dashlane the best choice for those new to password managers. The free tier securely stores your passwords on one device. Shelling out $5 a month syncs your encrypted info across multiple devices and earns you features like Site Breach Alerts—Dashlane monitors the web to make sure your personal info isn't being sold on the black market. If it is, the app notifies you and helps you change any compromised passwords.
LastPass made its name by handing out free accounts, and those are fine. However, you should upgrade to the paid option ($36 a year for individuals, $48 for families) for the ability to securely share passwords and other sensitive information with your partner or workmates. Emergency Access, also a premium feature, allows someone you trust (like a family member) to get into your account in an urgent situation.
Yes, your web browser can store and autofill passwords for you. So why not just do that? Because storing passwords in your browser is a terrible idea! If other people (like the system admin at the office) have access to your computer, they can open Chrome's settings tab and see all of your passwords in plaintext. Also, dedicated apps can generate strong passwords for you and autofill any passwords outside the browser, like in your banking or shopping apps.
Styling by Audrey Taylor When you buy something using the retail links in our stories, we may earn a small affiliate commission. Read more about how this works.
This article appears in the November issue.
Subscribe now.
Get more tech news with our Gadget Lab podcast , available on iTunes and Spotify.
WIRED25: Stories of people who are racing to save us Massive, AI-powered robots are 3D-printing entire rockets Ripper —the inside story of the egregiously bad videogame USB-C has finally come into its own Planting tiny spy chips in hardware can cost as little as $200 👁 Prepare for the deepfake era of video ; plus, check out the latest news on AI 🏃🏽‍♀️ Want the best tools to get healthy? Check out our Gear team’s picks for the best fitness trackers , running gear (including shoes and socks ), and best headphones.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Senior Writer and Reviewer X Topics Passwords cybersecurity magazine-27.11 Michael Calore Julian Chokkattu Brenda Stolyar Julian Chokkattu Simon Hill Boone Ashworth Reece Rogers Justin Pot WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
