Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Dan Goodin, Ars Technica Security A Mystery Malware Stole 26 Million Passwords From Windows PCs The malware collected account credentials for almost 1 million sites, including Facebook, Twitter, Amazon, and Gmail.
Photograph: Catherine Falls Commercial/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Researchers have discovered yet another massive trove of sensitive data, a dizzying 1.2 TB database containing login credentials, browser cookies, autofill data, and payment information extracted by malware that has yet to be identified.
This story originally appeared on Ars Technica , a trusted source for technology news, tech policy analysis, reviews, and more. Ars is owned by WIRED's parent company, Condé Nast.
In all, researchers from NordLocker said on Wednesday , the database contained 26 million login credentials, 1.1 million unique email addresses, more than 2 billion browser cookies, and 6.6 million files. In some cases, victims stored passwords in text files created with the Notepad application.
The stash also included over 1 million images and more than 650,000 Word and PDF files. Additionally, the malware made a screenshot after it infected the computer and took a picture using the device’s webcam. Stolen data also came from apps for messaging, email, gaming, and file-sharing. The data was extracted between 2018 and 2020 from more than 3 million PCs.
The discovery comes amid an epidemic of security breaches involving ransomware and other types of malware hitting large companies. In some cases, including the May ransomware attack on Colonial Pipeline , hackers first gained access using compromised accounts. Many such credentials are available for sale online.
Alon Gal, cofounder and CTO of security firm Hudson Rock, said that such data is often first collected by stealer malware installed by an attacker attempting to steal cryptocurrency or commit a similar type of crime.
The attacker “will likely then try to steal cryptocurrencies, and once he is done with the information, he will sell to groups whose expertise is ransomware, data breaches, and corporate espionage,” Gal told me. “These stealers are capturing browser passwords, cookies, files, and much more and sending it to the [command and control server] of the attacker.” NordLocker researchers said there’s no shortage of sources for attackers to secure such information.
“The truth is, anyone can get their hands on custom malware,” the researchers wrote. “It’s cheap, customizable, and can be found all over the web.
Dark web ads for these viruses uncover even more truth about this market. For instance, anyone can get their own custom malware and even lessons on how to use the stolen data for as little as $100. And custom does mean custom—advertisers promise that they can build a virus to attack virtually any app the buyer needs.” NordLocker hasn’t been able to identify the malware used in this case. Gal said that from 2018 to 2019, widely used malware included Azorult and, more recently, an info stealer known as Raccoon.
 Once infected, a PC will regularly send pilfered data to a command and control server operated by the attacker.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight In all, the malware collected account credentials for almost 1 million sites, including Facebook, Twitter, Amazon, and Gmail. Of the 2 billion cookies extracted, 22 percent remained valid at the time of the discovery. The files can be useful in piecing together the habits and interests of the victims, and if the cookies are used for authentication, they give access to the person’s online accounts. NordLocker provides other figures here.
People who want to determine if their data was swept up by the malware can check the Have I Been Pwned breach notification service, which has just uploaded a list of compromised accounts.
This story originally appeared on Ars Technica.
📩 The latest on tech, science, and more: Get our newsletters ! Freedom, mayhem, and the uncertain future of Revel mopeds Twitch turns 10, and the creator economy is in its debt How to protect your files from ransomware The colorful, costly world of custom keyboard enthusiasts Crypto isn't about money.
It's about fandom 👁️ Explore AI like never before with our new database 🎮 WIRED Games: Get the latest tips, reviews, and more ✨ Optimize your home life with our Gear team’s best picks, from robot vacuums to affordable mattresses to smart speakers X Topics Ars Technica malware hacks David Gilbert David Gilbert Andrew Couts Andy Greenberg Lily Hay Newman Andy Greenberg David Gilbert Justin Ling Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
