Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Magazine View previous issues MIT News Magazine It’s Not Too Late: Special Report on Energy The energy technologies that might forestall global warming already exist. Cleaner coal, smarter nuclear, bioengineered ethanol, and more.
Letter from the editor View previous issue View next issue Features Categorized in 17037 The Messenger The best scientists, scrutinizing atmosphere, ice, earth, and sea, say global warming is approaching a tipping point. But we still have time to keep it from reaching catastrophic levels.
Categorized in 17037 The Oil Frontier Don’t expect the scarcity of fossil fuels to drive us toward alternative energy sources anytime soon: we’re getting smarter about finding and extracting oil.
Categorized in 17037 The Dirty Secret Better technologies exist for extracting coal, a major source of carbon dioxide emissions. The challenge is getting people to adopt them.
Categorized in 17037 The Best Nuclear Option The U.S. Energy Department’s fuel-recycling initiative could be a distraction from a more achievable goal: reviving today’s nuclear industry and averting some carbon emissions in the short term.
Categorized in 17037 Redesigning Life to Make Ethanol Genetically engineered organisms can more efficiently produce ethanol from cheap and abundant sources of biomass, such as agricultural waste. It could make ethanol cost competitive.
Categorized in 17037 It’s Not Too Early We know where we must go eventually: toward a sustainable energy infrastructure. Why not head there now? Categorized in 17037 The Un-Coal By investing in energy efficiency, we could vastly reduce carbon dioxide emissions and save money.
Categorized in 17035 Seeing Your Pain Learning to consciously alter brain activity through MRI feedback could help control pain and other disorders.
Categorized in Uncategorized Homo Conexus A veteran technology commentator attempts to live entirely on Web 2.0 for two weeks.
Also in this issue Letters Letters from our readers.
Categorized in Uncategorized Subliminal Search A brain monitor could vastly improve image analysts’ efficiency.
Categorized in 17035 Nano Test for Heart Attacks Improved protein detection is key.
Categorized in 17035 Floating Wind Farms General Electric has a solution to the eyesore problem.
Categorized in 17037 Virtual Contractors Designing an online home or environment is getting easier.
Categorized in Uncategorized Nanowires in the Brain Making brain implants safer, cheaper.
Categorized in 17035 Multilingual Mobile Messenger A new tool for disaster alert.
Categorized in Uncategorized Gravity Tractor How to lasso wayward asteroids.
Categorized in 17036 Why Mice Drink Categorized in 17035 Rocky Start for CO2 Trading The European Union handed out more allowances than it should have.
Categorized in 17037 1,000 Cores on a Chip Rapport’s Kilocore chip makes quick work of video processing.
Categorized in 17032 Aluminum Foam This new technique for producing aluminum foam with uniform cells could make thinner impact-absorbing products.
Categorized in 17036 War Games The latest video game for training U.S. soldiers emphasizes social skills over combat – and even has a built-in editing function.
Categorized in 17032 From the Labs: Information Technology New publications, experiments, and breakthroughs in information technology – and what they mean.
Categorized in 17032 From the Labs: Nanotechnology New publications, experiments, and breakthroughs in nanotechnology – and what they mean.
Categorized in 17032 From the Labs: Biotechnology New publications, experiments, and breakthroughs in biotechnology – and what they mean.
Categorized in 17035 Energy from the Sea 28 Years Ago in TR: “Massive ocean thermal energy conversion plants may be turning this heat to usable electricity by 1985.” – William F. Whitmore Categorized in 17037 Brazil’s Bounty: A Photo Essay A sun-drenched look at how this agricultural giant has become a global leader in biofuels.
Categorized in 17037 The Terabyte Zone A review of an external drive that can hold one trillion bytes of data – and how it might change the way we deal with our personal information.
Categorized in 17032 Vinge’s Singular Vision Cyberfiction’s founder returns with a preview of our virtual future.
Categorized in Uncategorized DOE’s Blurred Nuclear Vision A consistent strategy is the key to a successful nuclear future.
Categorized in 17037 Technology Design or Evolution? The two processes for building complex systems are fundamentally different.
Categorized in Uncategorized Engineering Biology The time is now for developing biology into a full-fledged engineering field.
Categorized in 17035 Q&A: Seth Lloyd A pioneer of quantum computing believes the universe is a quantum computer.
Categorized in 17032 Lego Mindstorms NXT: A Hack TR takes a look inside the company’s Mindstorms Robotic Invention System, a simple but versatile robotics platform for hobbyists and educators.
Categorized in 17032 Biology and the Engineer Subra Suresh is borrowing tools from physics to understand nanoscale changes in diseased cells.
Categorized in 17035 Past issues Updated The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
