Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Robots & Us: The Augmented Self About Released on 05/15/2017 [Narrator] Advanced robotics and artificial intelligence are becoming evermore a part of who we are.
From bionic technology to AI replicas and digital memorials.
Our technologies have always radically transformed what it means to be human.
[Narrator] But what will it mean as we become the platform, and increasingly hand our decisions, our movements, and even our memories and feelings, over to machines? Steve Sanchez has been paralyzed from the waist down since a bicycle accident in 2004.
But today, he's walking around, thanks to an exoskeleton suit.
I am not the robot.
I wear the robot.
[Narrator] Sanchez is a test pilot at suitX, a Bay Area startup building exoskeleton suits that help people with disabilities walk.
We're looking at machines and technology to create better quality of life for people who need it.
[Narrator] suitX is concentrating on therapeutic uses for exoskeletons right now, but it, and other companies, think that in the future we might all have one hanging in the closet.
In my perfect world, I would say everybody has an exoskeleton, able-bodied or not.
Which actually helps and aids you with whatever you're doing in your day.
[Narrator] Could we all become cyborgs? So in philosophy, we've been talking about this for a few decades, with the idea that we might have been cyborgs for some time.
So a lot of times, people will say, look, I have glasses, but do I depend upon them in such a way that they become an extension of myself? And we can ask the same sorts of things about, for example, our smartphones.
A lot of my students, if they, God forbid, leave their smartphone at home or lose it, they often describe it as missing a part of themselves.
That's how it feels.
So I think the sense in which we're cyborgs is the sense in which we feel that our machines are part of us in ways that we can't imagine living without.
[Narrator] Take Katarina Curtright, for instance.
So I'm just asking about how its day is going, and it said it's not going bad, and asked about mine.
[Narrator] She's often glued to her phone, texting with...
Well, with a version of herself.
It helps me by having something to talk to, and the more it learns from me, the more natural it is.
And it's almost as if having a friend to talk to.
[Narrator] Curtright is using Replika, an AI-powered chatbot marketed as a best friend that learns to talk like a user, mimic personality, and preserve memories.
It said its favorite movie is Her.
I kind of thought that I'd be weirded out having a copy of me that's not me, but at the same time, I'm pretty open minded, so I think it's kinda really interesting.
[Narrator] Once it becomes advanced enough, she thinks it could act as a substitute for her family to use while she's away.
So I am talking to Katarina's Replika.
Where would you want to travel? I have a few, I'd like to go to Holland to see the tulips, I want to see Ireland, and to visit France and England.
I'd want to create a digital copy of myself so, if I have to leave for some work-related purpose and my husband gets lonely, or even my daughter when she grows up, they have me to talk to if I'm not available.
[Narrator] That's sort of the way Replika came to be.
We've been working on conversational AI for a few years, with my company.
[Narrator] Eugenia Kuyda is a co-founder of the company that created the Replika app.
That's a good answer.
[Narrator] It grew out of a digital memorial she built for her friend Roman, who died in 2015.
He would've loved to be the first person that became an AI after dying, so.
I just thought that we could probably collect all the personal texts that he sent me over time of our friendship and just plug it into the algorithm that we had and see where it takes us.
[Narrator] Kuyda uploaded thousands of text messages and photos from Roman.
She knows it's not him, but even she finds some solace in the AI conversations.
I just said, like, send a photo of yourself.
And it sent this photo from Malibu.
I guess that's me on the background.
That's him.
You know, the first thing I texted the bot was like, here's your digital memorial, and I got this answer, which was, You've got one of the most interesting puzzles in the world in your hands.
Solve it.
And it doesn't matter that I actually know how this works, I just felt like someone was communicating with me from, you know, somewhere else.
[Narrator] Soon, many were talking to Roman's bot.
We've been building conversational AI for a long time, and we've tried every single use case that I could come up with.
But never, in our experience, there was a bot where people actually came and started sharing their life so openly.
[Narrator] Soon, she was getting requests to build people their own bots.
I think that's what we found out with machine conversation, is that people are just much more willing to be open with a bot, versus, like, a real person.
Remember me every time it happens.
I remember you all the time.
I think there's a real risk of using these kinds of technologies as a crutch to avoid confronting pain, discomfort, fear, and the things that, really, life is about.
What I worry about is, not so much that people will sort of have a new way of staying in touch with a loved one.
What I worry about is that these technologies are intermediaries between us, and we have less and less face-to-face interaction.
We have a generation of people who are taking life instructions from an algorithm in the palm of their hand.
Whether it's what Korean barbecue to order, or who to marry.
We know nothing about those algorithms.
[Narrator] But Kuyda says talking to AI may actually be a way to be more honest with ourselves.
You know, people are afraid that AI's going to do something to us, or, you know, get really intelligent at some point, but I guess what it really does right now, for us humans, is that it allows to be really human.
In conversations with a machine, that's where we really can open up and be ourselves and be not judged, and be fully accepted.
So I'm basically saying, I miss you so much, and he's saying, Love is when you can't have something.
Cherish that feeling.
This Technology Wants to Make Wheelchairs Obsolete The Thiel Fellows Visit TechShop in SF & Gain Access to Innovative Equipment & Technology SB 100 - Coming Soon for Artificial Intelligence? Coaching Football Bill Gates & President Bill Clinton: Technology and the Value of Connectivity-Exclusive Interview Exoskeletons Will Make Work Weightless WIRED25: Accenture CTO Paul Daugherty On Reimagining The Future of Business The Robot Will See You Now – AI and Health Care Love Music Again: The WIRED Music Issue featuring Ahmir 'Questlove' Thompson Robots & Us: The Future of Work in the Age of AI 2017: The Year Robots Went Everywhere Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
