Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter David Nield Gear Want More Out of Generative AI? Here Are 9 Useful Resources Illustration: wildpixel/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save End User Consumer The recent wave of generative artificial intelligence services, from ChatGPT to Midjourney , are designed to be simple to use: The idea is that anyone can produce text or images using natural, non-technical language. There's a low barrier to entry.
That said, there's still a lot to learn about how to get the most out of these tools and about the technology underpinning them, especially if you want to do something truly creative with the help of these tools. Spend some time with the resources we've listed here and you'll quickly become a smarter-than-average AI operator.
From demos of what AI is capable of, to discussions of how it's best implemented, these videos, podcasts, newsletters, and blogs are well worth bookmarking if you're keen to invest in the generative AI revolution happening around us.
Some of the best resources out there when it comes to generative AI are Substacks, and Inside My Head is a case in point. Run by technologist Linus Ekenstam, it features a host of useful AI-related material, covering tutorials on getting the optimum results from these tools and crafting the smartest prompts.
There's also news on the latest happenings in the world of AI, pointers on different apps that can be of help to you, and promises of much more to come—including an AI training course. Some posts are free to read, while others require a $10/month subscription.
Inside My Head on Substack Towards AI is a one-stop online shop for all your generative AI needs—it includes news and opinion, tutorials, a busy online community, and more, with artificial intelligence and the latest developments serving as the thread running through everything.
The site covers tools to help you get more out of AI, offers interviews with engineers working in the field, and of course has the obligatory email newsletter you can sign up to. There are also stories on some interesting applications of AI that you might not have thought about before.
Towards AI on Medium The AI Podcast from Nvidia drops episodes every fortnight and covers every aspect of artificial intelligence, including generative AI. It covers the impact of the technology on gaming, science, sports, language, hardware, and more.
Each week there's a special guest or two from a different organization in the field of AI, and it's an engaging and thought-provoking resource for expanding your AI knowledge and figuring out where these various innovations might be going next.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe The AI Podcast Visually AI is one of the better AI-related Substacks out there.
Visually AI via David Nield Another Substack resource, Visually AI is a project from creator Heather Cooper. It tells you what's out there in terms of generative AI tools and helps you make the most of them—whether that's involving text, images, or anything else that AI is capable of outputting.
It's one of the newer resources out there, so there's not that much content to get through at the time of writing, but there's already an AI toolkit you can download and an ethics discussion. Note that some posts are locked behind a paywall, which starts at $8/month.
Visually AI on Substack Generative AI has sent shockwaves through academia , and it's only just getting started: We've now got chatbots passing exams and writing dissertations, and it's important that everyone in the education industry knows what they're dealing with.
GPT for Educators is an online course that will set you back $19.90 for 18 lessons and 2.5 hours of video content. It covers how to integrate generative AI into the classroom, how it can be used to support and help students, and what some of the challenges and ethical concerns are about this revolutionary tech.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe GPT for Educators As you would expect, the massive learning portal that is Udemy has a rapidly expanding section on generative AI. These video courses cover a variety of topics and price points, and while you can't try any of them out for free, you can browse through reviews from other users and get your money back if you're not satisfied.
The content on offer covers just about every use of generative AI you can think of, from marketing to coding to ecommerce. There's also something here for every experience level, whether you're just getting started with artificial intelligence or you want to dig deeper into the technology and coding behind it.
Generative AI Courses on Udemy There's a growing amount of AI content on Udemy.
Udemy via David Nield The goal of Gradient Ascent on Substack is to “level up in machine learning the fun way,” and it's a resource that's packed with tips, news, and discussion around generative AI. It's a little more high level than some other resources we've listed here, so it's a good place to go once you've mastered the basics.
Posts available at the time of writing include one on the way that AI learns its vocabulary and another on how image detection works. Everything is available to read for free, though you can pledge support to the author through the Substack system, with prices starting at $10/month.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Gradient Ascent on Substack There's a certain skill to prompting generative AIs, and the more detailed and creative you can be with your inputs the better the outputs will be—whether you're trying to produce a digitally generated picture of an alien world or ideas for a short story.
Learn Prompting is a free and open source online course that takes you step-by-step through the art of prompting, with plenty of examples included throughout. Everything is color coded based on its difficulty level, so you can start off with the training aimed at beginners before moving on to more complex material.
Learn Prompting As you would expect, YouTube is awash with tutorials and explainers aimed at helping you get more from generative AI, but for our pick we're going to highlight a channel that's relatively new but also backed by a very reputable name in the form of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
This AI channel from MIT already has lectures, conversations, and demos about how artificial intelligence can be used to produce all kinds of content, and we're looking forward to more videos in the future.
MIT AI ML Club on YouTube You Might Also Like … 📩 Get the long view on tech with Steven Levy's Plaintext newsletter Watch this guy work, and you’ll finally understand the TikTok era How Telegram became a terrifying weapon in the Israel-Hamas War Inside Elon Musk’s first election crisis —a day after he “freed” the bird The ultra-efficient farm of the future is in the sky The best pickleball paddles for beginners and pros 🌲 Our Gear team has branched out with a new guide to the best sleeping pads and fresh picks for the best coolers and binoculars Contributor X Topics education learning artificial intelligence tips Adrienne So Brenda Stolyar Jaina Grey Adrienne So Reece Rogers Eric Ravenscraft Jaina Grey Simon Hill WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Best Buy coupon: Score $300 off select laptops VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
