Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Alex Davies Transportation The USPS Tests Out Self-Driving Trucks for Hauling Mail Self-driving truck developer TuSimple is running a two-week pilot project with the US Postal Service, moving mail between Phoenix and Dallas.
TuSimple Save this story Save Save this story Save The United States Postal Service has a lot of ways to move the 484.8 million pieces of mail it handles every day. In rural Alaska, postal workers run hovercraft, prop planes, and the occasional parachute. They pilot boats in the Louisiana bayou and snowmobiles in Colorado, Minnesota, Montana, Utah, and Wisconsin. To reach the Havasupai Indian Reservation town of Supai at the bottom of the Grand Canyon, they go by mule train. And now, to carry the mail from Phoenix to Dallas, they’re letting robots do the work.
Starting Tuesday, self-driving trucks built by startup TuSimple will haul trailers full of mail and packages all by themselves. Well, mostly by themselves: The 18-wheelers will have a certified driver and safety engineer aboard, who will handle the driving on surface streets and take control from the robot as needed. The pilot project will last two weeks and include five round trips between the cities’ distribution hubs.
For the postal service, autonomy might help it reverse an ugly financial situation. The agency, which receives no tax dollars, has posted a loss every year for more than a decade. Its five-year strategic plan, covering 2017–2021, is full of talk about being open to innovative solutions. In February, it issued a request for information saying it was investigating how autonomous vehicles could fit into its fleet. It’s working with the University of Michigan on a self-driving truck to handle rural routes.
 In a statement, a spokesperson called the pilot “just one of many ways the postal service is innovating and investing in its future.” TuSimple bills itself as a master of computer vision. Its cameras can see and identify threats about 1,000 meters away—more than half a mile and much farther than any lidar.
TuSimple Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight For TuSimple, it’s the chance to make some (undisclosed) revenue, pick up some press coverage, and to test its technology against the rigors of a real-world delivery service. The startup, which has headquarters in San Diego and Beijing, bills itself as a master of computer vision.
 Its cameras can see and identify threats about 1,000 meters away—more than half a mile and much farther than any lidar laser-scanning system.
 But this pilot is more of a logistical than a technological exam.
To build a high-resolution record of three freeways in three states, TuSimple executed what founder and CTO Xiaodi Hou calls an “involuntary upgrade of our mapping infrastructure.” (It used human-driven cars to do that work.) For the 1,000-mile, 20-hour drive, it had to increase the truck’s hard drive storage space to handle all the data the system will produce. And it toughened up parts of the system like the server that failed during a test ride WIRED took last December.
If that kind of problem does strike, TuSimple can’t take all day to get the vehicle back in action—not if it expects to keep its first customer happy and eventually bring in others. “These are the hard requirements that we will likely encounter in the future,” Hou says.
For this pilot, the human driver will handle the truck on surface streets, but Hou says TuSimple is already looking to a second phase of the pilot, where the robot does all the work. Meanwhile, it’s 400-person team is working to expand the robot’s operating envelope. The system can handle high winds, night driving (handling high beams was a pain), and rain, Hou says, while ice on the road remains “a nasty problem.” If it never succeeds, the postal service has a team of mules up for the task.
Melinda Gates to tech: Wake up to women's empowerment My wild ride in a robot race car Quiet evidence of people's impact on Earth Portland is again blazing trails for open internet access Should I spend $1,000 on a smartphone? 🎧 Things not sounding right? Check out our favorite wireless headphones , soundbars , and bluetooth speakers 📩 Want more? Sign up for our daily newsletter and never miss our latest and greatest stories Senior Associate Editor Facebook X Instagram Topics Self-Driving Cars trucks Autonomous Vehicles Aarian Marshall Aarian Marshall Aarian Marshall Aarian Marshall Ramin Skibba Caitlin Harrington Amanda Hoover Matt Simon Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
