Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Alex Davies Transportation Softbank Pours $2.25 Billion Into GM's Bid for Self-Driving Dominance Among various moves to prepare itself for the age of the robot, GM has reconfigured its Orion assembly plant outside Detroit to build a version of the all-electric Chevrolet Bolt without a steering wheel or pedals.
Jeffrey Sauger for General Motors Save this story Save Save this story Save The Softbank Vision Fund is investing $2.25 billion in Cruise, the arm of General Motors tasked with developing fully self-driving cars and putting them into commercial service sometime, somewhere, in 2019. It’s the most significant deal to date in a nascent but booming industry, and it confirms that GM, despite getting a late start compared to Google sister company Waymo , is among the leading players.
The investment will allow GM the financial flexibility to keep up Cruise’s rapid growth—it announced last year it’s adding 1,100 jobs over the course of five years—without taking away from its current, core, revenue-generating business: manufacturing human-driven cars, for humans to buy. And it gives Softbank a 19.6 percent stake in Cruise, which amounts to a major foothold in an industry that could be worth $7 trillion in the next few decades.
As long as government regulators OK the deal, Softbank will make the investment in two tranches, starting with $900 million, then $1.35 billion once Cruise puts its robocars in service. At the same time, GM itself is putting another $1 billion into its self-driving arm, which is based in San Francisco and operates with a fair deal of independence. As the technology moves steadily toward maturity, it’s attracting major money. A 2017 Brookings Institution report tallied up 160 deals in the self-driving space, worth a collective $80 billion. In February 2017, Ford cannonballed into the market, investing $1 billion in self-driving startup Argo. This new deal dwarfs even that. “This is as big as it gets,” Michael Ronen, managing partner of SoftBank Investment Advisors, said Thursday on a conference call.
GM caught Softbank’s eye with its commitment to safety, ability to manufacture cars at scale, and speed of development. “We were blown away by the Cruise team’s ability to iterate quickly,” Ronen said.
Waymo started serious work on this technology nearly a decade ago and plans to launch a commercial ride-hailing service in Arizona by the end of the year. It's now working with automakers to build its hardware and software into their vehicles. Earlier this year, it signed a deal to buy 20,000 Jaguar I-Pace SUVs over the next five years. Today, it announced that it will add 62,000 more Chrysler Pacifica minivans to its fleet, to go with the 600 it's already using to test its tech.
1 GM started dabbling in this technology when it worked with Carnegie Mellon University on the Darpa Urban Challenge, but its serious effort to match Waymo started in early 2016, when it bought Cruise for a reported $600 million. Since then, it has made a flurry of moves to catch up with Waymo and position itself not just to make cars drive themselves, but to make money doing it. GM bought a lidar company to wrangle hardware costs and manufacturing. It reconfigured its Orion assembly plant, outside Detroit, to build a robo-version of the all-electric Chevrolet Bolt, without a steering wheel or pedals.
 It launched a car-sharing service called Maven to get itself acquainted with business models where people don’t just buy a new car every decade.
GM and Cruise have not, however, made clear how their self-driving service will work, especially without a broader, established ride-hailing network into which it can plug the robots. (GM and Lyft announced a partnership in January 2016, but the romance has reportedly cooled.
) “We’re focused right now on the hardest part of the problem, which is getting self-driving technology to the point where it’s commercially ready for deployment,” said Dan Ammann, GM’s president. “At that point, we can look at our options for what approach we take to market, or approaches. That’ll take shape over the next year or so.” Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Whatever the answer, Softbank likes GM’s holistic approach to self-driving, Ronen said. The Japanese firm has gone somewhat Brewster’s Millions lately : It bought Boston Dynamics, plans to pump $100 billion into quantum computing, is working on self-driving buses, and is even getting into real estate and construction.
 Mobility-wise, it has major investments in Uber, Didi, and DoorDash.
With GM, Softbank is making a long-term play. The companies have agreed to a seven-year term before they can cash out. “We believe that should be a good runway to get even close to maturity,” Ronen said.
Indeed, it’s likely that self-driving car services will start small, in discrete geographic pockets where companies like GM and Waymo can limit potential problems, from complicated traffic to crazy weather to heavy-handed regulators. Growing this potentially world-changing technology into a worldwide business will take many years and billions of dollars. But GM just made one more move to keep itself near the front of the pack.
1 Story updated at 12:25 ET on Thursday, May 31, 2018 to include news of the expansion of Waymo's vehicle agreement with Fiat Chrysler.
The laser battle against blood-sucking parasites of the sea Israel's self-flying 'Cormorant' whisks wounded soldiers to safety Climate change has made zombie ants even more cunning Photo essay: Unreal views of the trippy colors in Ethiopia's Danakil Desert Nyan Cat, Doge, and the art of the Rickroll—here's all you need to know about memes Hungry for even more deep dives on your next favorite topic? Sign up for the Backchannel newsletter Senior Associate Editor Facebook X Instagram Topics General Motors Self-Driving Cars softbank Venture Capital Aarian Marshall Aarian Marshall Aarian Marshall Will Knight Aarian Marshall Will Knight Will Knight Boone Ashworth Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
