Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Tencent’s New Lab Shows It’s Serious about Mastering AI By Will Knight archive page One of China’s biggest tech companies, Tencent, is establishing an AI research lab in Seattle, demonstrating a growing determination to master a technology that looks set to define the future of many industries.
Tencent is already one of China’s dominant tech companies. It operates the hugely successful mobile chat app WeChat—which boasts over 889 million active users in China—along with lots of other social tools, e-commerce services, games, and the like.
Based in Shenzhen, a manufacturing hub in the southeastern part of the country, Tencent has the potential to become a key player in the development and commercialization of artificial intelligence. The company has the money, the reach, and the data to attract strong researchers.
Indeed, Tencent also announced a significant new AI hire. Yu Dong, a prominent expert on speech recognition and deep learning, will become the deputy director of the company’s AI lab, and he will oversee the operation of the lab in Seattle. Yu was previously a principal researcher at Microsoft, where he worked on applying deep learning to voice recognition, an approach that has produced dramatic advances in accuracy over the past few years.
Tencent began ramping up its AI operation only last year.
I met with researchers from Tencent’s AI Lab in Barcelona last December, at one of the biggest AI conferences of the year, where they had come eager to establish the company’s credentials and recruit talent. Tencent says it now has more than 50 AI researchers at various outposts.
Tencent is far from alone—Chinese companies have been upping their AI game considerably of late. The search giant Baidu is already heavily invested in AI, and operates a lab in Silicon Valley. Alibaba has begun publishing some impressive AI research itself while dozens of Chinese startups are building successful businesses on top of advances in AI and machine learning. China’s academic labs are also advancing, although those in the West are still ahead, which is why companies like Tencent and Baidu have established outposts in the U.S.
In coming years AI is expected to revolutionize all sorts of industries, from transportation to health care and education. So it’s hardly surprising that China’s latest five-year-plan, which defines the country’s priorities, mentions artificial intelligence as a key area where it wants to see progress. This will translate into billions of dollars of investment, as demonstrated by the opening of a National Deep Learning Lab recently.
(Read more: “ A Chinese Internet Giant Enters the AI Race ,” “ Paying with Your Face ," " The Insanely Popular News App You’ve Never Heard Of ,” “ A Top Poker-Playing Algorithm Is Cleaning Up In China ,” “ China’s Five-Year Plan to Transform Its Robotics Industry ,” “ China’s First ‘Deep Learning Lab’ Intensifies Challenge to the U.S. in Artificial Intelligence Race ”) hide by Will Knight Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos New approaches to the tech talent shortage MIT Technology Review Insights Keep Reading Most Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI The tool, called Nightshade, messes up training data in ways that could cause serious damage to image-generating AI models.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Artificial wombs are nearing human trials. But the goal is to save the littlest preemies, not replace the uterus.
By Cassandra Willyard archive page How to fix the internet If we want online discourse to improve, we need to move beyond the big platforms.
By Katie Notopoulos archive page New approaches to the tech talent shortage Early-career programs enable tech companies to invest in the future workforce via upskilling and education.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
