Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter David Pierce Gear Android Wear 2.0 Has Landed—Here Are All the New Features Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED It's Complicated Read more Assistant Is Listening Read more Notifications Are Sane Again Read more Fit Is Lit Read more More than two years after stepping into the world of connected wristwear, Google finally started rolling out Android Wear 2.0. You'll see it on watches new and old, round and square, big and bigger, ugly and uglier. Wear 2.0 offers many things, but this update mostly sharpens Google's vision for smartwatches. It makes your watch a better tool for fitness and texting, makes the interface far easier to navigate, and puts Google Assistant on your wrist. Most importantly, it makes everything you do with it faster. Much faster.
It's Complicated Google evidently realized that the best place to put glanceable data is on the first screen you see when you glance at your watch. Who knew? Android Wear now includes complications: the little widgets on a face that let you see your calendar, open an app, or add a cup of water to your total for the day. That last one really exists, and I find it kind of great. App developers can make their data available to complications, and face designers can decide how to use it.
Android Assistant Is Listening The future of Android Wear aligns closely with the future of Google Assistant. Going forward, you'll see watches with a clickable, scrollable crown you long-press to activate Assistant and check the weather, send texts, set reminders, and more. Assistant responds with little typed cards on your wrist---odd, yes, but better than having your watch read texts aloud. I found Assistant a little slow on the watch and more error-prone than on my phone, but it does the job.
Android Notifications Are Sane Again People who like smartwatches tend to be the always-on, hyperconnected, Type-A people. People who like that their watch buzzes to get their attention even when their phone isn't nearby. Wear 2.0 refines all those notifications, so that instead of a huge card that takes over the screen you see a small icon pop up at the bottom. Tap it and you go to your notification; ignore it and you go about your day.
Android Fit Is Lit For most people, smartwatches are glorified fitness trackers. Google Fit, which powers Android Wear's health capabilities, is finally up to the task. Your watch can now detect that you're working out, and even figure out when you switch from push-ups to squats. Third-party apps can read and write data from Fit, too, so if you switch to Runkeeper you won't lose your decade of Nike+ data. For most things, you won't even need a third-party app. You can just open Fit, pick "sit-up challenge," and go to work.
Android One Watch, Many Faces Google imagines you might use one watchface for the workday, with your calendar and a more formal clock. Then when you go home, you swipe over and the silly face with a picture of your kid and music controls appears. Rather than use two watches, you wear one watch with two personalities. Once I set it up, I really liked it. I even created a third workout face, with all my stats one tap away. I don't have kids, so I just used a picture of Kevin from Home Alone.
 I highly recommend it.
Android Ditch Your Phone Since Android Wear now includes Google's Play Store, you can download apps from your wrist, to your wrist. All the scroll-scroll-scrolling is tedious, but it works. You don't need to install an app on your phone just to get it on your watch. Your watch can also connect directly to Wi-Fi—or even LTE, if you get the giant LG Watch Sport. Once you go through the first setup, you hardly need your phone anymore. Which means if you, dear iPhone user, want a smartwatch but don't want an Apple Watch, you finally have other options. Android Wear mostly just treats your phone as a router, so it doesn't care which phone you're using.
Android Faster Ain't Fast Enough Virtually every single thing about Wear 2.0 is faster than before. Apps open more quickly, notifications are more efficient, even games feel semi-playable. But fast er doesn't mean fast. My two watches take eons to boot, and apps like to spin a bit before loading. Evidently Google can't find room within the tiny bezels for truly powerful processing.
Android So Many Keyboards Google thinks smartwatches are great for texting. So it gave you 100,000 ways to do it. You can reply with your voice, which is good and reasonable. You can use emoji, or Google's canned responses, which work fine. You can scribble letters one at a time on the screen. Or you can use the on-screen keyboard, because somehow Google decided it was a good idea to put a 26-letter keyboard on a teeny tiny screen. It's more usable than I expected, but not really usable at all.
Android Round Watches Are Better Watches Google won't explicitly say so, but it clearly made Wear 2.0 with the idea that most smartwatches are going to be round from now on. The slightly curving app drawer, the way notifications are presented, even the watchfaces themselves are clearly made with round screens in mind. Which is great! Round watches fit better next to that weird bone you have on your wrist, and tend to look better anyway.
Android Still No Killer App After two-plus years of watching people use Android Wear, Google has a pretty good idea of what people do on their smartwatches. Yet even Google doesn't seem to know what a smartwatch's future is. Wear 2.0 doubles down on all those things, and makes them mostly better. What it doesn't do is make any kind of new case for why the non-smartwatch-owning masses should suddenly jump on board. There's nothing radically new here, no exciting take on the future. It's just a really good fitness machine, and a way to text your friends from your wrist. That's fine, but it's not going to set the world on fire.
Android Senior Staff Writer Facebook X Tumblr Instagram Topics Android Android Wear Google Wearables Julian Chokkattu Boone Ashworth Julian Chokkattu Simon Hill Boone Ashworth Simon Hill Julian Chokkattu Julian Chokkattu WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Black Friday Sale: Up to 40% off Dyson technology + bonus gifts GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Best Buy coupon: Score $300 off select laptops VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
