Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts DeepMind’s AI has now outcompeted nearly all human players at StarCraft II By Karen Hao archive page AlphaStar (Zerg, in red) defending an early aggression where the opponent built part of the base near AlphaStar's base.
courtesy of DeepMind In January of this year, DeepMind announced it had hit a milestone in its quest for artificial general intelligence. It had designed an AI system, called AlphaStar, that beat two professional players at StarCraft II, a popular video game about galactic warfare. This was quite a feat. StarCaft II is highly complex, with 10 26 choices for every move. It’s also a game of imperfect information—and there are no definitive strategies for winning. The achievement marked a new level of machine intelligence.
Now DeepMind, an Alphabet subsidiary, is releasing an update. AlphaStar now outranks the vast majority of active StarCraft players, demonstrating a much more robust and repeatable ability to strategize on the fly than before. The results, published in Nature today, could have important implications for applications ranging from machine translation to digital assistants or even military planning.
StarCraft II is a real-time strategy game, most often played one on one. A player must choose one of three human or alien races—Protoss, Terran, or Zerg—and alternate between gathering resources, building infrastructure and weapons, and attacking the opponent to win the game. Every race has unique skill sets and limitations that affect the winning strategy, so players commonly pick and master playing with one.
AlphaStar used reinforcement learning , where an algorithm learns through trial and error, to master playing with all the races. “This is really important because it means that the same type of methods can in principle be applied to other domains,” said David Silver, DeepMind’s principal research scientist, on a press call. The AI also reached a rank above 99.8% of the active players in the official online league.
In order to attain such flexibility, the DeepMind team modified a commonly used technique known as self-play, in which a reinforcement-learning algorithm plays against itself to learn faster. DeepMind famously used this technique to train AlphaGo Zero , the program that taught itself without any human input to beat the best players in the ancient game of Go. The lab also used it in the preliminary version of AlphaStar.
Conventionally in self-play, both versions of the algorithm are programmed to maximize their chances of winning. But the researchers discovered that that didn’t necessarily result in the most robust algorithms. For such an open-ended game, it risked pigeon-holing the algorithm into specific strategies that would only work under certain conditions.
Taking inspiration from the way pro StarCraft II players train with one another, the researchers instead programmed one of the algorithms to expose the flaws of the other rather than maximize its own chance of winning. “That’s kind of [like] asking a friend to play against you,” said Oriol Vinyals, the lead researcher on the project, on the call. “These friends should show you what your weaknesses are, so then eventually you can become stronger.” The method produced much more generalizable algorithms that could adapt to a broader range of game scenarios.
The researchers believe AlphaStar’s strategy development and coordination skills could be applied to many other problems. “We chose StarCraft [...] because we felt it mirrored a lot of challenges that actually come up in real-world applications,” said Silver. These applications could include digital assistants, self-driving cars, or other machines that have to interact with humans, he said.
“The complexity [of StarCraft] is much more reminiscent of the scales that we’re seeing in the real world,” said Silver.
But AlphaStar demonstrates AI’s significant limitations, too. For example, it still needs orders of magnitude more training data than a human player to attain the same level of skill. Such learning software is also still a long way off from being translated into sophisticated robotics or real-world applications.
To have more stories like this delivered directly to your inbox, sign up for our Webby-nominated AI newsletter The Algorithm. It's free.
hide by Karen Hao Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 Zeyi Yang How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Deep Dive Artificial intelligence This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI The tool, called Nightshade, messes up training data in ways that could cause serious damage to image-generating AI models.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 With just a few minutes of sample video and $1,000, brands never have to stop selling their products.
By Zeyi Yang archive page Driving companywide efficiencies with AI Advanced AI and ML capabilities revolutionize how administrative and operations tasks are done.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page Rogue superintelligence and merging with machines: Inside the mind of OpenAI’s chief scientist An exclusive conversation with Ilya Sutskever on his fears for the future of AI and why they’ve made him change the focus of his life’s work.
By Will Douglas Heaven archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
