Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Aarian Marshall Science Astro Teller on How to Handle Failure Save this story Save Save this story Save Failure is always disappointing, but two things can help take the sting away: Dispassion and money. Lots of money. As the head of X, Alphabet's so-called moonshot factory, Astro Teller has plenty of both. Funded by parent company Alphabet to the tune of billions each year, X is dedicated to ambitious and sometimes wacky research and development projects. And, according to Teller, researchers working on these projects—as exciting as they may be—have to be disciplined about their enthusiasm for a project.
“Running the experiments is itself hard,” Teller said onstage Friday during the WIRED25 Festival in San Francisco. “But after the experiment, I need you to—however passionate you were while working on the project—we now need to step back and dispassionately assess. We just got some data from the world: What does this mean? Should we keep doing this project?” If an X-er loves their solution too much, Teller says, that blinds them to the true solution.
That sounds like an easy enough approach, but it has to be coupled that special X touch: A long time horizon,and a willingness to give employees the space and time to pound away at hard ideas and truly learn. Add those together, and you have the secret to X’s success, says Teller.
Well, decidedly mixed success. Teller told the Wall Street Journal last year that the Alphabet arm has about a failure rate of about fifty-fifty. Foghorn, an attempt to turn seawater into a carbon-neutral fuel, died after two years of work in January 2016, after X-ers decided the idea wasn’t economically feasible. But some X projects do “graduate” and become Alphabet spin-off companies, like self-driving vehicle company Waymo (currently valued at $105 billion)the drone company Wing ; and Loon , an attempt to use huge, floating balloons to provide internet connectivity to all.
One of X’s most exciting in-the-works bets couples AI with agricultural production —it’s making a goofy little blue plant buggy that roams fields, using data and machine learning to evaluate specific crops and help farmers manage their growth.
On Friday, Teller cited one moment of dispassion during the buggy’s development process: X engineers needed some way to move aside crop leaves so they could get a good look at a fruit’s development. Maybe they could just attach a leaf blower to the underside? Nope. “A leaf blower kicks up a huge amount of dust and pisses off the farmers,” Teller said. That rational assessment was an example of X’s typical post-project dispassion, writ small. “The dispassion is happening on a weekly basis.” Good luck, little plant buggy.
Livestream: Watch the future unfold here Essay: It’s time to push tech forward, and rebuild what it broke November Issue: Stories of people who are racing to save us Summit+Culture & Fam: Full event details Want more WIRED? Subscribe now Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Staff Writer X Topics WIRED25 space Google Matt Simon Matt Simon Emily Mullin Rhett Allain Rhett Allain Emily Mullin Ramin Skibba Emily Mullin Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
