Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Robert McMillan Business Google, NASA Open New Lab to Kick Tires on Quantum Computer Inside a D-Wave Quantum computer.
Photo: D-Wave Save this story Save Save this story Save If machines are going to become as smart as Google and NASA want them to be, they may need a whole new type of computing to get them there. Quantum computing, that is.
So today Google said it's opening a lab -- complete with a quantum computer -- called the Quantum Artificial Intelligence Lab. It's hosted at NASA's Ames Research center, located just down the Highway 101 from Google's Mountain View headquarters and run in conjunction with the Universities Space Research Association, a non-profit group devoted to space science.
The lab will operate a 512-qubit quantum computer called the D-Wave Two, a machine that's also being tested out by Lockheed Martin.
Google has had some success using its vast computing resources to build machine learning into services such as voice and image recognition , but this work is incredibly compute-intensive. Although it's still in the early days of experimentation, quantum computing could herald a new era of number-crunching.
That's because it uses quantum physics to break computer processing out of the binary computing paradigm that has dominated for the past half-century. Instead of binary bits, these computers measure qubits, which can simultaneously represent many more values.
"We believe quantum computing may help solve some of the most challenging computer science problems, particularly in machine learning," wrote Hartmut Neven, a Google director of engineering in a blog post.
 "Machine learning is all about building better models of the world to make more accurate predictions." The trick is getting these systems far enough along to solve real-world problems.
The company that's making Google and NASA's computer, D-Wave, has been met some skepticism from the quantum computing community.
 In part, it's because D-Wave is taking a different approach to quantum computing. But it's also because it hasn't produced the kind of peer reviewed research on its systems that academics require.
But this week, researchers at Simon Fraser University and Amherst College presented a paper studying the D-Wave chip's performance.
 They found that it worked pretty well on certain computing tasks.
Beyond the practical engineering problems involved in building a quantum computer, it's also difficult to develop algorithms that can take advantage of the unique properties of qubits in such a way as to build applications that are more efficient on a quantum computer than on a classical computer. Google claims to have already made some progress on this. "We’ve already developed some quantum machine learning algorithms. One produces very compact, efficient recognizers -- very useful when you’re short on power, as on a mobile device," Neven wrote. "Another can handle highly polluted training data, where a high percentage of the examples are mislabeled, as they often are in the real world." Google will also mix classical and quantum computing.
With the Quantum Artificial Intelligence Lab there will be more research to follow. The Lab's D-Wave computer will be open to "researchers from around the world," Neven says. It will be available to researchers by the end of September, D-Wave said in a press release.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Senior Writer X Topics D-Wave Enterprise Google Hardware microchips NASA quantum research supercomputers Gregory Barber Paresh Dave Caitlin Harrington Steven Levy Amanda Hoover Paresh Dave Will Knight Peter Guest Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
