Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Klint Finley Business Facebook, Microsoft Back Contest to Better Detect Deepfakes For now, tells like disappearing facial features or audio glitches make deepfakes relatively easy to spot, but that won’t always be the case.
Elena Lacey; Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Application Deepfakes Identifying Fabrications Company Facebook Microsoft End User Big company Research Sector Social media Video Source Data Video Technology Machine learning Machine vision When the makers of the 1994 movie Forrest Gump inserted Tom Hanks into an old film clip to make it appear the actor was shaking hands with Richard Nixon, their handiwork was considered cutting edge. Now it's easier to doctor video. The popular Chinese app Zao allows users to easily insert faces into movie and television clips.
These sorts of artificial-intelligence-generated videos, known as "deepfakes," are worrisome. Imagine the faces of politicians, activists, or journalists superimposed into, say, a porn video. Or consider how a bully could use the technology to torment schoolmates.
For now, tells like disappearing facial features or audio glitches make deepfakes relatively easy to spot. But the technology is continually improving. Facebook CTO Mike Schroepfer worries that artificial intelligence experts are spending too much time perfecting deepfakes and not enough time finding ways to detect them.
On Thursday, Facebook, Microsoft, the Partnership on AI coalition, and academics from seven universities launched a contest to encourage better ways of detecting deepfakes. Organizers of the Deepfake Detection Challenge did not specify prizes. The contest will run from late 2019 until spring of 2020.
After being screened, participants will be given access to a collection of deepfake videos that Facebook plans to release by December. They will feature professional actors who have consented to have their faces used in deepfakes, but Schroepfer says the videos in the dataset will, as much as possible, resemble real Facebook videos. No Facebook user data will be used. You won’t have to use Facebook’s videos to participate in the contest.
Contests are a common way to encourage researchers and hobbyists to find solutions to difficult computer science problems. Netflix famously held a competition to build a better movie recommendation engine, and the website Kaggle hosts data science competitions for a wide range of companies and organizations.
One big challenge for deepfake researchers is that, as with all AI work, researchers need numerous examples of deepfakes in order to "train" a system to spot doctored videos. It's relatively easy, Schroepfer says, to spot a deepfake when a system has already "seen" the original video. For example, if a system is already familiar with the original film clip used in Forrest Gump, it can tell that something has changed. But if a malicious actor records an original video and doctors it, it's much harder for an AI system to spot. The Facebook-created deepfakes are intended to help solve that problem.
Schroepfer says Facebook already implements all the detection methods it knows about, but hopes the contest will generate novel ways to spot deepfakes. The idea isn't to create a system that will stop all deepfakes forever, but to find ways to make it harder and more expensive to create passable deepfakes.
We can be heroes: How nerds are reinventing pop culture Why on earth is water in Hawaii's Kilauea volcano ? Jeffrey Epstein and the power of networks I replaced my oven with a waffle maker and you should, too Learn how to fall with climber Alex Honnold 👁 Facial recognition is suddenly everywhere.
 Should you worry? Plus, read the latest news on artificial intelligence 🏃🏽‍♀️ Want the best tools to get healthy? Check out our Gear team’s picks for the best fitness trackers , running gear (including shoes and socks ), and best headphones.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Contributor X Topics artificial intelligence machine learning Video Khari Johnson Will Knight Khari Johnson Will Knight Will Knight Will Knight Gregory Barber Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
