Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Matt Simon Science Don't Fear the Robot Overlords—Embrace Them as Coworkers VEO Robotics Save this story Save Save this story Save In a chilly warehouse just outside of Boston, the brute toils away. It’s 600 pounds of orange and black metal and whirring motors, a massive robotic arm that picks up car parts and places them on a table. Like its ancestors have done for decades, this industrial robot does the heavy lifting that no human worker could manage, and it does so with extreme speed and precision.
Unlike its forebears, though, this industrial robot isn’t confined to a cage: Most factory robots work in enforced solitude to make sure their human colleagues stay safe. This machine is working right alongside a human laborer. The robot places a part on the table, and the worker tightens bits with a wrench. When he’s done, the robot picks the part back up and takes it away.
VEO Robotics As the duo collaborates, roboticist Clara Vu does what was until recently considered very dumb: She crosses a neon orange line on the ground that marks the robot’s territory. Instead of giving her a head injury, the machine sees her and stops, and only resumes once Vu has backed away. The robot is no brute, it turns out. It’s the coworker of tomorrow.
This warehouse is Veo Robotics’ R&D center, where a very different narrative about the future of work is taking shape. Worrywarts like Elon Musk fear a future in which AI and robotics cause mass unemployment and oh yeah existential doom for the human race.
 But in factories across the world, machines are beginning to work more intimately with humans without sending them to the unemployment line—or the grave.
The reality is that while robots are great at some things, they still fail miserably at others. “Robots can be bigger, stronger, faster, more precise than people,” says Vu, co-founder and vice president of engineering at Veo Robotics. “But they're not going to be more flexible, more dexterous. They're not going to have that for decades, centuries, who knows.” Sure, you might be able to figure out how to automate car part assembly from start to finish. But for the time being, it’s more efficient to involve a human worker. Robot arms can lift thousands of pounds over and over, but they still struggle with fine manipulation.
Video by VEO Robotics What they are getting better at, though, is sensing their world. Veo takes a range of robotic arms and essentially builds a larger robotic system around them. Engineers surround the robotic arm with time-of-flight cameras, which calculate distance based on the speed of light, and monitor the area for humans.
The camera data is used to calculate the moment when a robot should stop moving, depending on what it’s doing and its distance to a human, says Patrick Sobalvarro, CEO and co-founder of Veo. “The stopping distance for a robot that's carrying a ton of stuff is probably a meter,” whereas a smaller arm might just need a few centimeters. Either way, the system will order the arm to first slow, then stop when approaching what it thinks is a human.
But in these early days of collaborative robotics, even this new tool is bound by strict limitations. What Veo has built is a structured environment in which the robot can carry out structured tasks—the only reason it can collaborate with a human is because its work is predictable. In the future, though, we’ll want machines that can work with us in less structured environments like the home. Say, a robot that hands you pieces as you construct an Ikea chair.
 In that case, you want it to act like a human, perhaps following verbal commands or even recognizing that you want a part just by seeing you point at it.
“Ideally in terms of human-robot interaction, we would not have to change too much,” says Daniela Rus, director of MIT’s Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory. “But in practice, of course, the robots have a fixed architecture and they have a fixed vocabulary. So people will continue to have to learn that and understand what the tool is useful for.” Video by VEO Robotics But as the field matures, so too will the richness of communication between humans and machines. A humanoid robot that helps you move furniture is a good example. You’d want it to follow verbal commands, obviously. But less obviously, you’d want it to detect the intensity of your pushing and pulling of a sofa, which telegraphs your intentions.
But might the machines eventually turn on us as they grow adept, replacing humans in the workplace entirely? Automation always destroys jobs—pretty much everyone used to be a farmer until mechanization came along. But that didn’t happen over the course of a week. Technology arrived and slowly farmers became factory workers.
Take as an example a modern factory in Austria that produces very large, very expensive generators. “I walked into this factory, and first I was struck by how few people there were,” says R. David Edelman, director of the Project on Technology, Economy, and National Security at MIT. “Which sort of jelled with my expectation.” These generators use precision-milled components, after all, work that’s best suited for robots.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight But then the foreman led Edelman to the other side of the factory, which was crammed full of workers who had the dexterity to assemble those components. “So I asked the foreman, ‘How much longer until all of these people are unemployed?’ And he points to the last guy on the line, who was a young guy, and he said, 'About the time that he retires.'” That factory stands as a monument to the power of robots and to the limitations of that power. Machines of all kinds have long put humans out of work, but they’ve also become our coworkers. And now more than ever, we’re working right alongside us as they grow more sensitive to our biggest limitation: We’re fragile—oh so fragile.
The 21 (and counting) biggest Facebook scandals of 2018 Alexa grew up this year, mostly because we talked to it 8 sci-fi writers imagine the bold and new future of work The mad scramble for the world's most coveted meteorite Galileo, krypton, and how the true meter came to be 👀 Looking for the latest gadgets? Check out our picks , gift guides , and best deals all year round 📩 Get even more of our inside scoops with our weekly Backchannel newsletter Staff Writer X Topics robotics Year in Review Rhett Allain Rhett Allain Grace Browne Ramin Skibba Elizabeth Finkel Rhett Allain Tristan Kennedy Rob Reddick Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
