Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Cade Metz Business How Facebook Knows What You Really Like Brian L. Frank for Wired Save this story Save Save this story Save Facebook is different from Apple or Google or Amazon or Microsoft, says Mark Zuckerberg, because it doesn't build products. It seeks to improve the products built by everyone else.
"If Apple or Google want to build a product, they typically go build it," the Facebook CEO told Charlie Rose this fall. "Whereas..., you know, we want to help rethink the way that people listen to music or watch movies.
"We build a platform on top of which people connect, and we enable all these different companies, dozens of companies, to plug in, companies that are big companies, companies that are small companies, things that don’t even exist." Today -- May 24 -- marks the fifth anniversary of the Facebook Platform , a set of tools that let outside companies and developers build applications and websites that plug into Zuckerberg's massive social network. Zuckerberg has long pointed to the platform as the key to Facebook's future -- and even the future of the web at large. "A social version of anything can almost always be more engaging and outperform a non-social version," he likes to say. And five years on, this view has been born out -- at least in part.
More than 9 million applications and websites now tie into Facebook in some way, and some online operations -- most notably Zynga -- have ridden the Facebook platform to heights they likely couldn't have reached without it.
But Zuckerberg wants more. As the Facebook Platform enters its sixth year, the company is expanding its mission through something it calls the Open Graph. This isn't a visual graph. It's not a line graph or a bar graph or a pie graph. In this case, graph is a mathematical term. It's a way of representing connections between pieces of data.
In the beginning, Facebook built what Mark Zuckerberg calls a "social graph" -- i.e. a data model representing the connections between its million of users. With the Open Graph, it's expanding this model across third party services, including applications that run atop Facebook as well as independent websites.
In essence, Open Graph is a means of grabbing all sorts of information Facebook users generate on third-party services and feeding it back into the Facebook machine. It's a way of sharing all this information with your network of online friends -- and it's what Zuckerberg was referring to when he said the company seeks to change how the world listens to music and watches movies.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Using Open Graph, Spotify -- the digital music service -- lets you share your listening habits with your network of Facebook friends. Netflix lets you share what movies you're watching. Little snippets of your online behavior are streamed into the Facebook Newsfeed and onto your Facebook Timeline, and ultimately, this feeds the habits of your online friends.
"Music is fundamentally a social experience. The music your friends listen to shapes what you listen to," says Mike Vernal, who oversees the Facebook engineering team responsible for Open Graph. "We knew that it would be really powerful if you could use Facebook to discover interesting music based on what your friends are listening to." >"Music is fundamentally a social experience. The music your friends listen to shapes what you listen to." – Mike Vernal But Open Graph is more than just way of moving song names from one place to another. It's at least a small step towards what has long been called the semantic web -- a web where information is structured in a way that it be more easily analyzed and refined and reused by outside services. Facebook's more than 900 million users generate so much data on the social network -- and beyond -- the company can't just shuttle all this information into your Newsfeed. Open Graph provides application and website developers with a way of structuring their data, so that Facebook machines can readily use it and restructure it and reuse it as need be.
"We could have just done text analysis," says Vernal. "But we decided that if we could create a framework where developers can tell us the structure of this information, we could build much more interesting and much more compelling visualizations of this data both in Newsfeed and on Timeline." In short, Facebook is striving to organize and use data generated by other companies in much the same way it has always organized and used data on its own site. Facebook beat out the likes of MySpace because its data was structured in a way that gave it some context, says Adrian Aoun, who once worked for MySpace's parent company, Fox Interactive. The system had an understanding of what the data meant -- and knew how to treat it in relation to other data.
If you added your company’s name to your profile, he says , it wasn’t just a piece of text. It was link to a page, and this page linked to anyone else who worked for your same company. The upshot is that on Facebook, data had more meaning. It could so easily turn up in a new context on a new page.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Aoun sees the Open Graph as a natural extension of this setup. "Facebook gave your data some underlying representation, and it realized the power you can give to a computer interface if you have this sort of underlying data," he says. "Open Graph is dead on. It's the exact same vision." But as Aoun points out, Facebook must convince developers to reformat their data. And when developers do so, Vernal and company still face an enormous task on their end. In building Open Graph, Facebook not only offered developers a way of structuring data and an API, or application programming interface, for shuttling that data to Facebook. It built an entirely new system inside its data centers that juggles all this data and ultimately decides what you see and what you don't.
In many ways, developers are free to define the structured data they supply to Facebook. But then Facebook decides how this data is ultimately used.
Inside the Open Graph Facebook stores two basic types of data: objects and the relationships between those objects. And with Open Graph, the model has been extended to third-party applications and websites. "We have an object store, which stores things like users and events and groups and photos, and then we have an edge store that stores the relationship between objects," Vernal explains.
"With Open Graph, we built a layer on top of those systems that allowed developers to define what their objects look like and what their edges look like and then publish those third party objects and edges into the same infrastructure that we used to store all of the first party objects and edges." The trick lies in analyzing those relationships -- and fast. "With the site, we try to contextualize what you’re looking at, contextualize it with respect to you social circles. Barack Obama has 30 million followers, but if you visit his page, we highlight which of your friends like Barack Obama. And we do this in milliseconds." In the case of Open Graph, the task is to weed through the mountains of data streaming from outside operations and serve up only the stuff that's most relevant. The system works in two stages. First, it seeks to determine how interesting a certain type data would be to Facebook's audience as a whole. Then, using this global rating as a starting point, it tries to determine how important the data is to you in particular.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight "One problem is understanding globally how people interact with this content," Vernal says. "The secondary problem is trying to understand on a per user basis what is most interesting to them. If you prefer music, we show you more music. If you prefer games, we show you more games.
"Then we merge those two sets of scores together, to influence what Newsfeed shows and what Timeline shows and what some other systems show." As those 900 million people use Facebook, clicking on objects here and there, Vernal and company record this behavior in a software platform called Scribe, a technology specifically designed to log large amount of data in realtime. Then a second (unnamed) platform taps into Scribe and does a kind of on-the-fly analysis of this data, determining what's the most popular and what's the least. These tallies are then stored in a third system based on Hbase, the open source distributed database.
According to Vernal, data moves from one end of the system to another in about 20 to 30 seconds, and about a billion actions are processed each hour.
The tallies stored in Hbase are then shuttled to Facebook's Newsfeed and Timeline platforms, and there -- in tandem with a similar analysis of your personal behavior -- they're used to determine what Open Graph data you see and what you don't.
Facebook's Future and Beyond At the moment, Open Graph is very much a Facebook-centric technology. But at least in theory, other web services could make use of all that structured data in much the same way Facebook does. "You could have a whole ecosystem of sites that leverage this infrastructure that people are putting together for Facebook," says Will Larson, the director of engineering at Digg, another site that uses Open Graph. "It's kind of like they’re a standards creating body where everyone is benefiting from these standards they’re creating." For some, those are fighting words. As much as Google would like a more structured web, says Larson, it's unlikely to adopt a technology built to server the interests of Facebook. And as Adrian Aoun points out, the number of sites using the technology is still just a drop in the bucket when you consider the web as a whole. Unwilling to wait for something like Open Graph to mature, Aoun and his company, Wavii built a service that seeks to structure web data using text analysis -- the very thing Facebook didn't want to do.
Vikrum Nijjar, who recently added Open Graph to a small Facebook application he runs, believes that any talk of Facebook feeding the semantic web is premature. "Right now, it’s Facebook-centric," he says, "but that is an open possibility." In the meantime, at least some companies say that in pumping Open Graph data into Facebook, they've seen big leaps in traffic. According to Goodreads, a site that lets you share your reading habits with the rest of the world, the number of impressions it receives from Facebook has risen by at least 800 percent since it went live with Open Graph in January. Digg says that between December and January, it's page views increased 35 percent, attributing at least part of this to Open Graph.
Ultimately, there's only so much space in the Facebook Newsfeed. And some sites will benefit more than others. But the benefits are there. That, says Mark Zuckerberg, is what Facebook does. The question is how effective it will ultimately be.
Senior Writer X Topics data Digg Enterprise Facebook Google reading software Will Knight David Gilbert Amit Katwala Kari McMahon Andy Greenberg Khari Johnson David Gilbert Andy Greenberg Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
