Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Cade Metz Business Welcome to the Mind-Bending World of Cloud-on-Cloud Computing Robbert van der Steeg /Flickr Save this story Save Save this story Save John Engates is the chief technology officer at Rackspace, and even he had trouble wrapping his mind around the way his company runs its most important of technologies.
Rackspace, you see, runs its cloud software on its cloud software.
At first blush, this seems like some sort of cruel joke. Cloud software isn't the easiest concept to grasp -- even when you're running the stuff all by itself. And it doesn't help that the world's PR departments have co-opted the cloud moniker and applied it to, well, just about everything.
But in the end, Rackspace's cloud-on-cloud arrangement makes good sense. This sort of multilayered setup is rather common in the world of computer science, and if you take the time to think through what Rackspace is doing, it may even help you grasp the very real but often elusive ideas that underpin cloud computing -- ideas that are remaking the way the world runs software and stores data.
Headquartered in San Antonio, Texas, Rackspace is one of Amazon's chief rivals in the cloud computing game. Much like Amazon, Google and Microsoft , it operates a set of web services that give you instant access to computing power, letting you run sweeping software applications and store massive amounts of data without setting up your own fleet of machines. But the company is also one of the driving forces behind a movement to change the way these cloud services are built.
>'The art that software developers have perfected more than any other art is the art of decomposition. They create these blocks -- like LEGO building blocks -- that you can build incredibly complex things out of, including the building blocks themselves.' Chandler Carruth Little more than two years ago, Rackspace teamed with NASA to create an open source software project called OpenStack.
 The aim was to bootstrap what you might call a Linux for cloud computing -- free software anyone could use to create their own cloud services -- and the project has taken off with a speed few expected. It's now backed by everyone from Red Hat to HP, IBM, and Cisco.
But Rackspace is still the project's flagship. It now runs OpenStack in the massive data centers that underpin its own services -- and then some. As Engates explains, the company prefers to run OpenStack on top of OpenStack.
"We're running our cloud inside of a cloud," Engates says. "All of the control nodes that are necessary to serve the customers on our cloud are running in another OpenStack cloud." He chuckles, acknowledging just how odd this sounds. But then he says -- quite plainly -- that the arrangement is only natural. "It's a better way of doing things," he says. "We're merely eating our own dog food. The application we're offering to customers is running on that same application." OpenStack is a way of pooling resources from a vast collection of machines, including processing power and storage space. Rather than running your software application on a particular server, you run it on OpenStack, a platform that spans hundreds of servers, and this platform can grab you as much processing power as you need, whenever you need it (at least in theory). This makes it easier to launch applications, but it is also makes it easier to expand or "scale" them -- to reach more users with more servers. And when a server fails, the platform is smart enough to move the machine's work to a new one.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight But OpenStack is itself a software application. It too can run on OpenStack, and there's good reason for it to do so.
If OpenStack runs on Openstack, Rackspace can more easily deploy it and expand it and update it. The setup isn't that far removed from using Amazon Web Services to run some other cloud service -- something that happens all the time. Salesforce.com's cloud service, Heroku, for instance, runs atop Amazon.
This is just the way software works. You use software to create software, and sometimes, you use software to create itself.
"The art that software developers have perfected more than any other art is the art of decomposition. They create these blocks -- like LEGO building blocks -- that you can build incredibly complex things out of, including the building blocks themselves," says Chandler Carruth, a Google engineer who helps design the developer tools the company uses to build its many software applications. "Of course you would run OpenStack on OpenStack. I'm sure, the first time someone did it, it seemed like such a new idea. But it just makes sense." In similar fashion, Carruth and Google uses those developer tools to, well, build those developer tools.
Rackspace isn't the only one backing the idea of running OpenStack atop OpenStack. Monty Taylor, a former Racker who now works on OpenStack at HP, is overseeing an effort to transform this idea into an open source project. It's called TripleO, for OpenStack on OpenStack.
Taylor believes this is only the beginning of a new way of thinking about computing power. OpenStack is designed so that a central server -- or controller -- can configure all the other machines on a network to behave as a whole. Nowadays, you start by loading software on this central server and plugging it into your network. But soon, Taylor says, you'll be able to do this with a notebook or some other handheld device.
"I'll be able to hand you a thing to run on your laptop, and you can plug it in to the network at the data center, bootstrap the whole thing, and then run all of your bare-metal physical infrastructure like it was a cloud," he says. "Then, of course, one of the things you can do with that is run a cloud on it." Senior Writer X Topics Amazon Cisco Cloud Computing developers Enterprise Google hp Infrastructure Microsoft OpenStack Rackspace Will Knight Kari McMahon Amit Katwala Andy Greenberg David Gilbert Khari Johnson Amit Katwala Joel Khalili Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
