Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google details new AI accelerator chips Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Tensor processing units (TPUs) in one of Google's data centers.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
At Google I/O 2021, Google today formally announced its fourth-generation tensor processing units (TPUs) , which the company claims can complete AI and machine learning training workloads in close-to-record wall clock time. Google says that clusters of TPUv4s can surpass the capabilities of previous-generation TPUs on workloads including object detection, image classification, natural language processing, machine translation, and recommendation benchmarks.
TPUv4 chips offers more than double the matrix multiplication TFLOPs of a third-generation TPU (TPUv3), where a single TFLOP is equivalent to 1 trillion floating-point operations per second. (Matrices are often used to represent the data that feeds into AI models.) It also offers a “significant” boost in memory bandwidth while benefiting from unspecified advances in interconnect technology. Google says that overall, at an identical scale of 64 chips and not accounting for improvement attributable to software, the TPUv4 demonstrates an average improvement of 2.7 times over TPUv3 performance.
Google’s TPUs are application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) developed specifically to accelerate AI. They’re liquid-cooled and designed to slot into server racks; deliver up to 100 petaflops of compute; and power Google products like Google Search, Google Photos, Google Translate, Google Assistant, Gmail, and Google Cloud AI APIs. Google announced the third generation in 2018 at its annual I/O developer conference and this morning took the wraps off the successor, which is in the research stages.
Cutting-edge performance TPUv4 clusters — or “pods” — total 4,096 chips interconnected with 10 times the bandwidth of most other networking technologies, according to Google. This enables a TPUv4 pod to deliver more than an exaflop of compute, which is equivalent to about 10 million average laptop processors at peak performance VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “This is a historic milestone for us — previously to get an exaflop, you needed to build a custom supercomputer,” Google CEO Sundar Pichai said during a keynote address. “But we already have many of these deployed today and will soon have dozens of TPUv4 four pods in our datacenters, many of which will be operating at or near 90% carbon-free energy.” This year’s MLPerf results suggest Google’s fourth-generation TPUs are nothing to scoff at. When tasked with training a BERT model on a large Wikipedia corpus, training took 1.82 minutes with 256 fourth-gen TPUs — only slightly slower than the 0.39 minutes it took with 4,096 third-gen TPUs. Meanwhile, achieving a 0.81-minute training time with Nvidia hardware required 2,048 A100 cards and 512 AMD Epyc 7742 CPU cores.
Google says that TPUv4 pods will be available to cloud customers starting later this year.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
