Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Mark Frauenfelder Culture 2001's 30-Year Odyssey Save this story Save Save this story Save Five hundred celebrants, including movie stars, astronauts, and engineers, whooped it up at The Writer's Guild Theater in Beverly Hills Wednesday to mark the 30th anniversary of director Stanley Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey.
Screenplay co-author Arthur C. Clarke, who wrote the novel, participated in the American Film Institute -sponsored event through a live Internet video feed from a cybercafe in Sri Lanka.
2001 actor Keir Dullea attended the reception, looking as if he had just stepped out of a frozen hibernation capsule on the Discovery. Standing near the shiny red spacesuit helmet he wore in the movie, the actor said he still gets a thrill every time he watches the film.
"What still gets to me is the dawn of man sequence when the lead ape-man discovers the tool. We see the moment, the missing link, where ape became man," Dullea said.
Panel moderator Andrew Chaikin, a science writer and author of A Man in the Moon (which was the basis for the Tom Hanks-produced HBO miniseries From the Earth to the Moon ), said he is still inspired by the film.
"Kubrick presents a vision of such grandeur and presents it so matter-of-factly, it's like he's saying 'this is not fantasy; it's reality, just not a reality that's arrived yet,'" Chaikin said.
A lively panel discussion preceded the screening of a mint print of the movie, and included the likes of Joan Horvath, the engineer at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in charge of NASA's Europa mission; Apollo 8 astronaut Bill Anders; 2001 actors Dullea and Gary Lockwood; the telepresent Clarke; and Hanks, the actor-producer-unabashed astronaut groupie.
Moderator Chaikin opened the conversation by reminding the audience that when the US$10 million movie premiered on April 3, 1968, critics slammed it.
The New York Times described 2001 as "somewhere between hypnotic and immensely boring," while Pauline Kael deemed it "monumentally unimaginative." Anders, who rode in the first manned spacecraft to orbit the moon, said that his viewing of the movie several months before his Apollo mission inflated his idea of what to expect to such a degree that when he finally got to see the moon close up, he was disappointed. "The real moon was boring. The surface looked sandblasted." Another panelist, Dr. David Stork, chief scientist and head of machine learning and perception group at Ricoh Silicon Valley and author of a book about 2001 's villainous computer, HAL, did not endear himself with the other panelists when he complained that the evening's program was focused too tightly on space and astronauts. Stork said that the real point of the movie was about the evolution of intelligence, from ape, to man, to machine, to cosmic consciousness.
The 80-year-old Nehru-jacketed Clarke, who appeared on a large video screen (at about one frame per second) above the panel members, displayed great humor and wit when answering questions. When asked if he believed humans were close to discovering alien life, Clarke talked about SS433 , a binary star system that spits out energy in way that he said convinced him that the massive object was "a discarded child's toy." He also dismissed the notion that aliens are already among us.
"None have visited me," said Clarke, "at least I don't think so." Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Angela Watercutter Jennifer M. Wood Geek's Guide to the Galaxy Angela Watercutter Jennifer M. Wood Matt Kamen Jennifer M. Wood Jennifer M. Wood Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
