Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Tony Long Science May 11, 1997: Machine Bests Man in Tournament-Level Chess Match Save this story Save Save this story Save Garry Kasparov plays Deep Blue.
Photo: Louie Psihoyos / Corbis 1997: Deep Blue becomes the first computer to defeat a chess champion in match play.
A year earlier, Garry Kasparov rallied from a first-game loss to beat Deep Blue in the first high-level chess tournament ever staged between man and computer. Following the defeat, Deep Blue was reprogrammed by its IBM minders and the two squared off again on the 35th floor of a Manhattan skyscraper.
The additional computing power tipped the scales in favor of Deep Blue, although Kasparov was more than game. He won the first game, lost the second and then battled Deep Blue to three successive draws, extending the computer to the sixth and deciding game, despite rules that allowed programmers to tinker with Deep Blue between games to keep adapting to Kasparov’s playing style.
Deep Blue, reprogrammed using the input of several grandmasters and a detailed analysis of Kasparov’s previous games, was tailored specifically to defeat the Russian champion. The 1997 version of Deep Blue was capable of making any one of 200 million moves per second, although Kasparov said afterward that he caught the computer making a humanlike mistake in move 44 of the second game.
In the decisive game, Kasparov chose to play black, a puzzling decision since he had only beaten Deep Blue once in two matches from that side of the board. The commentators for the match were not only surprised by Kasparov choosing black, but by his relatively cautious strategy, very un-Kasparov-like, suggesting that he might be playing for another draw.
If he was, it didn’t work. Kasparov blundered early, leaving his king trapped on a single square and forcing him onto the defensive. He never regained the initiative and resigned after only 18 moves.
Kasparov demanded a rematch, but IBM, having reaped the desired publicity, declined, and Deep Blue was retired.
(Source: Various) Rage Against the (Chess) Machine Of Pawns, Knights, Bits, Bytes Kasparov Goes Bigger than Blue Who's the Pawn In This Match? Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Topics Discoveries Erica Kasper Rob Reddick Grace Browne Rhett Allain Matt Simon Ramin Skibba Tristan Kennedy Emily Mullin Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
