Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Adam Rogers Science We Asked a Robot to Write an Obit for AI Pioneer Marvin Minsky Marvin Minsky wearing an interactive glove in the MIT robotics lab in the early 1980s.
Dan McCoy/Rainbow/RGB Ventures/SuperStock/Alamy Save this story Save Save this story Save The pioneering artificial intelligence theorist Marvin Minsky died Sunday. So we thought it would be appropriate to ask for an obituary from one of his virtual descendants: Wordsmith, the automated news-writing bot from the company Automated Insights.
Yes, sure, it’s only a near-analogy. Wordsmith isn’t exactly an AI. It takes structured data---stuff that fits into a spreadsheet---and fits it into templates of increasing complexity. But Minsky was always interested in the differences and similarities between human and machine cognition, and arguably Wordsmith is cogitating every bit as hard as human reporters do on deadline. (Trust me on this.) “A lot of what goes into a typical obit is very structured, or at least structurable,” says James Kotecki, head of communications at Automated Insights. “You can start with things like their name, their age, the day the died, how they died. You can imagine in a spreadsheet, ‘significant accomplishments 1, 2, and 3.’” So in this case, the template is a one-off rather than fully automated, and the data was harder to scrape. (But Kotecki says the company has been working on automating obituaries for a while.) In the golden age of newspapers, obituary writers were often masters of craft. You can see that even now--- The New York Times obit for Minsky , written by Glenn Rifkin, is lean and well-reported. Here’s a bit: Intellectually restless throughout his life, Professor Minsky sought to move on from mathematics once he had earned his doctorate. After ruling out genetics as interesting but not profound, and physics as mildly enticing, he chose to focus on intelligence itself.
Nice, right? Wordsmith can't match that, but it’s not supposed to. “The point would not be to replace a touching human obituary, but it might be a situation where you wanted to be the first media company out when someone notable dies,” Kotecki says. “You could have an automated version come out quickly and have human writers write details around it.” Human-machine collaboration? Seems like Minsky would have approved.
Here’s what the machine came up with: Marvin Lee Minsky, 88, passed away January 24, 2016 in Boston, Massachusetts of cerebral hemorrhaging.
Born August 9, 1927 in New York City, New York, to parents Fannie Reiser and Henry Minsky, Marvin Minsky was known for his pioneer contribution to the field of artificial intelligence (AI). After graduating from Phillips Academy, Minsky attended Harvard University, graduating with a BA in Mathematics in 1950. He continued his education at Princeton University, ultimately graduating with a a PhD in Mathematics in 1954.
Some of Minsky's greatest accomplishments include founding the MIT Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory in 1959 and authoring many groundbreaking books in the field of artificial intelligence, including Perceptrons. He won many notable awards in his field of study, including the Turing Award in 1969.
Minsky is survived by his wife Gloria Minsky; three children, Margaret Minsky, Julie Minsky, and Henry Minsky.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Senior Correspondent X Topics artificial intelligence Lux Alptraum Maryn McKenna Maryn McKenna Elizabeth Finkel Grace Browne Maryn McKenna Emily Mullin Celia Ford Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
