X Black Friday 2023 Live Blog Can You Trust AI Photography? Best TV for 2023 Thanksgiving Travel Times Snoozing Is Fine Solar EV charging 6 Best TV Gifts Tech Money Home Wellness Home Internet Energy Deals Sleep Price Finder more Tech Computing Dall-E Opens Its AI Art Creation Tool to Everyone The artificial intelligence technology can turn text prompts into intriguing illustrations.
Stephen Shankland principal writer Expertise processors, semiconductors, web browsers, quantum computing, supercomputers, AI, 3D printing, drones, computer science, physics, programming, materials science, USB, UWB, Android, digital photography, science Credentials I've been covering the technology industry for 24 years and was a science writer for five years before that. I've got deep expertise in microprocessors, digital photography, computer hardware and software, internet standards, web technology, and other dee Stephen Shankland Sept. 28, 2022 10:59 a.m. PT 2 min read Dall-E created this image based on a prompt to show a colorful painting of parachuting elephants.
Dall-E; Stephen Shankland/CNET Dall-E , a service that uses AI to turn text prompts into visual art , is now open to all comers. On Wednesday the company behind it, OpenAI, accepted everybody on the Dall-E waiting list.
Already the service was in widespread use, with 1.5 million people making more than 2 million images a day, OpenAI said in a blog post.
 Now others who requested access should have it granted, and anyone can sign up.
Artificial intelligence technology today generally refers to systems trained to recognize patterns in immense quantities of real-world data. The approach is revolutionizing computing, producing useful results in recognizing images, screening spam, preventing fraud and controlling self-driving cars.
Dall-E, though, brings some creative flair to the idea. Text prompts like " a painting of hipster dogs playing poker, in the style of Tomma Abts " can produce entertaining and sometimes intriguing results. It's a powerful illustration of the growing capability and utility of AI.
Though opening broader access should increase use of Dall-E, people have had alternatives, like Stable Diffusion and Midjourney.
Dall-E also could be spreading to other apps and services. OpenAI has begun working on a programming interface that could let businesses incorporate its results, it said Wednesday. That's already happening elsewhere, for example with a Stable Diffusion plugin for Adobe's Photoshop image-editing software.
Tech giants are investing deeply in AI technology. Later this week, Tesla plans to hold an AI Day event where it's expected to detail its Optimus humanoid robot and FSD technology it hopes will lead to self-driving cars.
Trying to prevent AI image abuse OpenAI, which says its mission is "to ensure that artificial general intelligence benefits all of humanity," emphasizes controls designed to prevent people from abusing Dall-E's capabilities. That means no sexual or violent content or attempts to create images of public figures. OpenAI has a whole system to help moderators detect problems automatically.
Not all tools have those kinds of limits. That's raised hackles in some quarters. US Rep. Anna Eshoo, a Democrat representing much of Silicon Valley , called for controls on generative AI art tools after Stable Diffusion was used "to create photos of violently beaten Asian women and pornography depicting real people," she said in a Sept. 22 letter.
Stable Diffusion creator Stability AI didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
Another illustration of the difficulty came when a Colorado man won a digital art contest with an AI work from Midjourney. Getty Images, a business that licenses imagery, banned AI-generated creations in September.
Computing Guides Laptops Best Laptop Best Chromebook Best Budget Laptop Best Cheap Gaming Laptop Best 2-in-1 Laptop Best Windows Laptop Best Macbook Best Gaming Laptop Best Macbook Deals Desktops & Monitors Best Desktop PC Best Gaming PC Best Monitor Under 200 Best Desktop Deals Best Monitors M2 Mac Mini Review Computer Accessories Best PC Speakers Best Printer Best External Hard Drive SSD Best USB C Hub Docking Station Best Keyboard Best Webcams Best Mouse Best Laptop Backpack Photography Best Camera to Buy Best Vlogging Camera Best Tripod Best Waterproof Camera Best Action Camera Best Camera Bag and Backpack Best Drone Tablets & E-Readers Best E-Ink Tablets Best iPad Deals Best iPad Best E-Reader Best Tablet Best Android Tablet 3D Printers Best 3D Printer Best Budget 3D Printer Best 3D Printing Filament Best 3D Printer Deals More From CNET Deals Reviews Best Products Gift Guide Shopping Extension Videos Software Downloads About About CNET Newsletters Sitemap Careers Policies Cookie Settings Help Center Licensing Privacy Policy Terms of Use Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information instagram youtube tiktok facebook twitter flipboard
