Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Cade Metz Business Apple Is Mystery 'Maverick' Eyeing Facebookian Data Center Save this story Save Save this story Save Apple may follow in the footsteps of Facebook and build a data center in the Oregon high desert, according to a report citing two people with direct knowledge of Apple's plans.
The Oregonian reports that Apple is the mystery company using the codename "Maverick" in its discussions with local officials about a possible data center just down the road from the facility Facebook opened this past spring.
Earlier this month, Prineville city engineer Eric Klann told Wired that both "Maverick" and another company, codenamed "Cloud," were looking to build server farms based on the designs of Facebook's data center, which the social networking giant has "open sourced" under the aegis of the Open Compute Project.
According to a public records request made by The Oregonian , "Cloud" is Rackspace, the Texas-based cloud computing outfit that has worked closely with Facebook on the Open Compute Project, specifically created to share Facebook's data center and server designs with the rest of the world -- and encourage others to improve on these designs. But it appears that Rackspace is close to building its data center in nearby Morrow County, Ore., rather than Prineville.
Facebook built in Prineville because it's in the high desert, letting the company use outside air to cool its server rooms. But Facebook was also attracted to the area because of tax breaks offered by the local government. Lured by such tax breaks, Apple, Google, and others are building many of their next-generation data centers in depressed areas looking for at least a small economic boost. Oregon is one popular location. Western North Carolina is another.
Apple did not immediately respond to a request for comment on The Oregonian 's story. But according to the paper, Apple representatives toured Facebook's data center this past summer on the same day the paper visited the site. Ken Patchett, the general manager of Facebook's facility, told Wired that "all" the big-name web companies have toured the data center since it opened in April.
The company codenamed Maverick has an option to buy 160 acres of land currently owned by Crook County, the county that surrounds Prineville, and this option expires later this month. Prineville city engineer Eric Klann tells us that the identities of both "Maverick" and "Cloud" will be made public later this month.
This past Thursday, at Rackspace's new San Francisco offices, we asked CTO John Engates if the company was considering a data center in central Oregon, and after looking at the public relations employee sitting beside him, he declined to say. "I can neither confirm nor deny," he told us. "I know we've had people visit there, and had a lot of conversations about it. I know we would love to have a data center in that context. But there are no definitive plans to build there." Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Senior Writer X Topics apple data Enterprise Facebook Google Morgan Meaker Reece Rogers Caitlin Harrington Nelson C.J.
Peter Guest Andy Greenberg Steven Levy Will Knight Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
