Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Online Education: Expanding and Personalizing Access About Credits Released on 02/04/2014 Solving education is not just to solving education it's kind of solving everything.
You know if you care about AIDS in Africa if you care about poverty in the inner city if you care about the environment whatever you care about, you care about education.
It is the ultimate gateway problem.
I absolutely believe that we need a revolution in education and the good news is that it very much appears to be happening.
(pensive music) The history of the human race is really a history of education.
Great moments in education have dominated the great moments in history.
Out of the industrial revolution we took what we learned about factories and processes and efficiencies and we turned education to a giant assembly line system.
You'd never build a system like the one we have today if you're building it from scratch.
It's a crazy system.
It's intuitive that not everybody has the exact same learning style and works equally well for each kid, for each thing that they learn.
Education is very, very slow to innovate but when it does two things happen.
There's a kind of Cambrian explosion of access increased access and also of improved quality simultaneously.
I believe that we are on the verge of the next great jump and that's going to be online education.
If we can suddenly mine all of the data that you've always been producing when you study we can personalize education to you.
We work with partners like publishers and schools and we take their content and we make it adapative.
You get your own personal textbook.
It's literally unique.
It's created for you every single day and within a couple weeks I know how strong you are at every single concept in the course and I know how exactly how you learn it best.
If you learn math best in the morning between 8:13 and 9:00 a.m. I know that.
If you learn science best in 24 minute bite sizes, I know that.
It's really personalized, I mean there is some belief that the education is not just one-on-one but you do collaborate if learning.
So kids learn from one another.
You type a question into our system.
Our system can go find everybody whose online right this second who absolutely knows the answer to that question.
And then we ask that question to 15 people just pops up in their screen and you get like the wisdom of crowds harnessed with this adaptive A.I.s We can't teach the higher level critical thinking skills.
We can't build the imaginations.
That's what the teachers do.
Online education is not going to supplant traditional education.
It's going to be a supplement to it.
Now if you have a great teacher in the room with you obviously that's better.
Many people around the world don't.
We want to expand education access as far and wide as we can and that very much includes in the developing world.
Most of the price of a textbook is just wasted on paper and printing and shipping so I believe we're on the verge of solving the access problem of the developing world.
We're gonna power about a million students starting this fall in the United States but very soon thereafter we expect to start spreading all over the world.
We want to make sure education in the next decade or two becomes available to everybody anywhere in the planet.
It could well be that the person who cures breast cancer is growing up in some Cambodian fishing village and will never be discovered.
The world's best lecture notes on Hamlet might be sitting in some desktop in Dublin somewhere and shown to 30 kids a year.
Well we can actually unlock that trapped value for the first time.
(upbeat string orchestra music) Starring: Jose Ferreira Safety and the Self-Driving Car Hierarchical Design Milk Refrigeration Systems for India's Off-Grid Communities Engineering Sustainable Biofuels Online Education: Expanding and Personalizing Access Global Sustainability & Planetary Boundaries The New Frontier of Medical Robots Using Smart Phones to Farm Better Preparation & Recovery for Catastrophes Creating a Digital Ecology That Works Unlocking Brain Data Breakthroughs in Nanomedicine Curing Unhappiness Persuasive Gaming Optogenetics and Enhancing Brain Functions Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
