Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Megan Molteni Science Health Care Is Hemorrhaging Data. AI Is Here to Help Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Application Prediction Ethics Sector Health care Source Data Images Biometric Technology Machine learning Artificial intelligence used to mean something. Now, everything has AI. That app that delivers you late-night egg rolls? AI. The chatbot that pops up when you’re buying new kicks? AI. Tweets, stories, posts in your feed, the search results you return, even the people you swipe right or left; artificial intelligence had an invisible hand in what (and who) you see on the internet.
But in the walled-off world of health care, with its HIPAA laws and privacy hot buttons, AI is only just beginning to change the way doctors see, diagnose, treat, and monitor patients. The potential to save lives and money is tremendous; one report estimates big data-crunching algorithms could save medicine and pharma up to $100 billion a year, as a result of AI-assisted efficiencies in clinical trials, research, and decision-making in the doctor’s office. Which is why tech titans like IBM, Microsoft, Google, and Apple are spinning up their own AI health care pet projects. And why every health-focused startup pitching Silicon Valley VCs throws in a “machine learning” or “deep neural net” for good measure.
These algorithms get better the more data they see. And health data is practically hemorrhaging out of mobile devices, wearables, and electronic medical files. But their siloed storage systems don’t make it easy to share that data with each other, let alone with an artificial intelligence. Until that changes, AI won’t be curing the world of, well, probably anything.
Which is not to say AI in health care is all hype. Sure, Watson turned out to be less cancer-crushing computer prodigy and more very expensive electrical bill. But 2017 wasn’t all flops. In fact, this year saw artificial intelligence begin demonstrating real concrete usefulness inside exam rooms and out.
In the doctor’s office, AI is already helping dermatologists tell cancerous growths from harmless spots , diagnose rare genetic conditions using facial recognition algorithms , and lending an assist in reading X-rays and other medical images.
 Soon, it will be detecting signs of diabetes-related eye disease in India. But image classification isn’t the only thing it’s getting good at; AI can also mine text data. That kind of tech undergirds a platform that gives any primary care doc access to the expertise of specialists from all over the world. No more waiting six months for that referral you can’t really afford anyway. And after you get that diagnosis, you can now take home an AI-equipped robot to help you stick to your treatment plan. It nags, but it looks cute while it’s doing it.
Health care-focused AI has also seeped into virtual care, as medicine experiments with ways to offer preventive care and between-visit support via the omnipresent smartphone. Your phone no longer just tells you how to sleep better , eat healthier , exercise more , and keep a quiet mind.
 Now, AI can pick up patterns in the way you talk and text , to detect the first signs of depression and suicide risk. And it can help you deal with that stuff too.
Amiable chatbots trained on cognitive behavioral therapy concepts are now helping people who can’t find time or money for a proper shrink. For veterans struggling with PTSD, researchers designed a human therapist avatar with a mind built by machine learning. Both approaches take advantage of the fact that people open up better to machines than other humans—the algorithms don’t judge.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight And artificial intelligence is smartening up other devices, too. Deep neural software is making it easier to tune things like hearing aids and fancy new ultrasound machines.
 It’s making exoskeletons more responsive and artificial hands better at gripping (but not breaking) things.
More on AI in Health Health Megan Molteni AI Megan Molteni Bots Megan Molteni Of course, as machine learning powers more and more medical device software, it’s made regulating them a whole lot trickier. This year the US Food and Drug Administration even had to create an entirely new digital health task force just to tackle it. How exactly do you regulate software that is always learning and evolving, constantly changing on the fly? What happens in a zero code world, where AI writes and rewrites its own instructions? Instead of trying to keep up with that radically different pace, the agency is piloting a new course—that certifies trusted companies with good track records, as opposed to individual software packages.
Still, those regulations will only control AI-informed devices, diagnostics, and treatments. The technology is seeping into the practice of medicine at every level, not just at the stage of final device approval. It’s now baked into the way biomedical researchers sift through tsunamis of genetic data and pharma firms discover new drugs.
 It’s how public health officials predict the next epidemic , and keep track of opioid hot spots.
 And it’s increasingly how doctors and scientists try to make sense their data-drenched realities. As AI opens those new avenues of understanding and treating human disease, it’s important to remember that algorithms, like people, are imperfect. They're only as good as the data they see and the biases they carry.
No matter how many black box neural networks start finding their way into the health care system, medicine is still fundamentally a human endeavor. And people don’t always do what’s best for them, even on a doctor’s orders. Which means the biggest challenge in health care isn’t about changing people’s bodies, but about changing people’s minds. And that’s not the kind of intelligence computers are good at. AI won’t be replacing MDs, anytime soon. But it is coming for their fax machines.
X Topics health medicine artificial intelligence Celia Ford Erica Kasper Max G. Levy Swapna Krishna Maryn McKenna Lux Alptraum Rob Reddick Meg Marco Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
