Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter WIRED Staff Gear Who Needs a Folding Phone, Anyway? Photograph: Microsoft Save this story Save Save this story Save This week, Microsoft's dual-screen Surface Duo became available for sale. Like many other folding devices, the Duo has been marketed as a product for busy workers on the go. But now, months into a pandemic where many workers are still sheltering in place (if they're lucky enough to have a job at all), the appeal of such gadgets is questionable at best. Nevertheless, Microsoft and other companies soldier on, searching for ways to make their expensive devices feel relevant. Foldables are here, whether people want them or not.
This week on Gadget Lab , WIRED senior associate editor Julian Chokkattu joins us to talk about Microsoft's "not-a-phone" phone and the future of foldables.
Read more about Microsoft’s Surface Duo here.
 Read all of WIRED’s coverage of folding devices.
Julian recommends rearranging your workspace if you work from home. Mike recommends Bachan’s Japanese Barbecue Sauce.
Julian Chokkattu can be found on Twitter @ JulianChokkattu.
 Michael Calore is @ snackfight.
 Lauren Goode is @ LaurenGoode.
 Bling the main hotline at @ GadgetLab.
 The show is produced by Boone Ashworth (@ booneashworth ). Our executive producer is Alex Kapelman (@ alexkapelman ). Our theme music is by Solar Keys.
If you have feedback about the show, or just want to enter to win a $50 gift card, take our brief listener survey here.
You can always listen to this week's podcast through the audio player on this page, but if you want to subscribe for free to get every episode, here's how: If you're on an iPhone or iPad, open the app called Podcasts or just tap this link.
 You can also download an app like Overcast or Pocket Casts and search for Gadget Lab.
 If you use Android, you can find us in the Google Play Music app just by tapping here.
 We’re on Spotify too. And in case you really need it, here's the RSS feed.
[Gadget Lab intro theme music] Michael Calore : Hi, everyone, welcome to Gadget Lab. I am Michael Calore, senior editor at WIRED. My usual cohost Lauren Goode is out this week, but I am not alone. I would like to welcome back to the show for the second week in a row in an unprecedented move, WIRED senior associate editor, Julian Chokkattu. Welcome back to the show, Julian.
Julian Chokkattu : Hello, thank you for having me again.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe MC : Of course. You're going to be the expert and I'm going to ask you a bunch of questions, I hope that's cool.
JC : That is totally fine.
MC : All right. We have you on because it's a topic that you've been covering quite a lot lately, we're going to talk about foldables; phones, tablets, eReaders, you name it, somebody wants to put a hinge on it. Now these devices are strange, they're a little bit awkward, they're expensive, and later in the show we're going to talk about the broader foldables market, which is oddly growing more and more crowded. But first we're going to look at one newly available gadget, the Microsoft Duo. On Wednesday of this week, Microsoft announced that its dual screen hybrid phone tablet thingy, is going to be available for purchase.
You can buy it right now, it ships in early September and the price starts at $1,399. We've talked about the Duo on the show before, but that was before the pandemic, and the way that people use their devices has changed considerably in the months since then. Before, Microsoft marketed the Duo as a multitasking machine for busy professionals who are always buzzing from meeting to meeting, but now of course, it's had to adapt its pitch to reflect the reality that much of its potential customer base is stuck working at home, if they even still have a job. But let's start by backing up and covering the basics. Julian, can you please describe for us what the Microsoft Duo is? JC : Yeah. So the Microsoft Surface Duo is an Android phone. It's a dual screened Android phone, so basically you're taking one phone and you slap a hinge and you add another phone screen next to it. So you have two screens, not really like a traditional foldable where the display folds itself, and it runs Android. You can do all the sorts of things that you can with a normal phone, but with the benefit of having a secondary screen. So you can do extra things like running two apps side by side.
MC : Does it have 15 cameras like every other Android phone? JC : No, strangely Microsoft has said that the camera is not the focus of this phone. During their briefing, we asked them a question about what the camera was like, and whether there's a rear camera at all. There's no rear camera. There's just one single camera on the inside of the screen, presumably that's focused for Zoom calls and things like that. But yeah, they didn't really show or talk about the camera experience at all, so it sounds like it's not really intended to be used as a camera phone as most of us use our camera phones today. So it's very much more on a lot of those productivity features.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe MC : You mentioned that this is a device with two screens with an exposed hinge in between them, it's not a folding screen, like the ones we've seen from Samsung to Motorola where the hinge is hidden behind the screen; why is that important? JC : It's important in that it's a different experience from a traditional foldable from the likes of Samsung, for example. Those phones have more of a seamless looking screen, so it actually might make that a little more difficult to multitask, whereas with this phone you have a specific separation between your two screens so it makes more of a delinear experience; you have one app on one side and another app on another side, and it makes everything look a little more professional, in a way.
MC : And this probably feeds into Microsoft's productivity narrative for the device? JC : Right. All the apps that Microsoft showcased are all Microsoft Office Suite, and all of the One Drive, and all the traditional things that you expect from Microsoft.
MC : So it's an Android device as you mentioned. First of all, why not Windows? And second of all, what is the dual screen experience like on Android? JC : Microsoft had a funny and really short answer when someone had asked that question at the briefing; they asked, "Why is this not running Windows?" and Panos Panay, Microsoft's executive, said, "Because of apps". That was it. It's something that we all know, that Microsoft struggled with the old Windows Phone, because they couldn't really get a lot of people to make apps for that platform. Without popular apps, people aren't going to come to your platform and use it, so in this day and age it's very difficult for Microsoft to suddenly ask a bunch of developers to make their apps for their new platform, if it was a Windows Mobile device. Instead it's much easier to go over to a platform that has all the apps you could really ever want. Obviously that's not going to be iOS, so Android is the only other option.
MC : How different is the Android experience on two screens versus one screen, that you can tell? JC : From what you can see there's some nice little additions that Microsoft has added, now they're work closely with Google so I'm not sure which side particularly made some of these things happen, but some little things that I've noticed, is that when you open the app launcher on one screen, the dock that sits on the home screen of the other screen moves to the side and adds a bunch of new apps that might have been on the dock from your other home screen. It sounds a bit complicated, but basically it's shifting things over from your home screen so you can still access a lot of those apps while you have another app open on the other screen. And then there's other things, like you can move an app into the center for it to expand and give you that full screen real estate.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe And other things like double app pairings in your app drawer, so you can actually pair two apps; one of the examples was Twitter and Instagram, locking them in as an app pair in the app launcher, so when you tap it both of those apps open simultaneously on both screens. Now that is a terrible example, because why would I want to scroll through Twitter and Instagram at the same time? But you can do something like, for example, pairing Gmail, or I guess in Microsoft's case you'd want to use something like Outlook with One Drive, and you can have that as a pair so that whenever you press that, you'll have both of those apps open all ready to go.
MC : Right. And you can have a Word document on one screen and an Excel spreadsheet on the other? JC : Right.
MC : So given the whole angle for productivity that we talked about at the beginning of the show, I want to touch on that real quickly, because this is a very weird time for Microsoft to be releasing a product that was originally pitched as the ultimate pocket sized productivity device for busy executive types. That work mode, even for the people in that position, is totally different now, so how is Microsoft positioning it now, in the fall of 2020? JC : When you take a look at the website at the moment, I think it's still says, I don't know if they updated it yet, but just last week it said the Surface Duo is productivity on the go. But then the entire messaging at the briefing more recently was, "adapting to you". So that's the switch that they've made, is that this is clearly a device that you're not going to take on the go anymore because we're not going anywhere, but now this is a device that you can use in various scenarios of your life.
And a lot of the examples that they were talking about at the briefing were not work-related at all; I think there was one example of someone reading a book through the Kindle app to their daughter before bedtime. There was another one of cooking, for example, someone had brought a recipe on the edge of browser and they dragged it over to the other screen to add it to their to-do list app. So there was all sorts of things that they're making it like an everyday phone that you can totally use not work related, and still get more out of it than you would a single screen phone.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe MC : Can you play games on it? JC : Yeah, you can play games. I assume you can technically play two games at the same time if you really want to, but I think it might be more fun to do a full screen gaming experience. And actually that's one of the things that they also highlighted, was the new Xbox game pass, you'll be able to run some of those X-Box games through, if you have a good internet connection, through the phone as well.
MC : All right. Well, I'm looking forward to reading your full review when you actually get a chance to try it. It's very weird, it must be very weird for somebody who reports on products, and reviews products, to be seeing everything for the first time over Zoom and not being able to touch it? JC : Yeah. But I mean, having done this for some time, you know exactly what something is going to feel like. Sometimes you'll be surprised and that's always fun, but a lot of the times, we see a lot of these phones, for example with the Note 20, even before I got a chance to play around with it, I knew exactly what I was going to get. It's an iteration on an iteration. I'm excited for this one, because this is something completely new and it's Microsoft, which hasn't really made a phone for a long time. So that's what's a little more exciting about this launch compared to some of the other phone launches.
MC : Right. I completely agree. At least it's something different and new, so it makes the review a lot easier to write.
JC : Yes.
MC : All right. Well, let's take a quick break, and when we come back we're going to talk more about foldables in general.
[Break] MC : Welcome back. Now, the Duo is not the only folding device around; companies like Samsung and Motorola are also trying to convince customers to pay well over a thousand dollars for a bendy phone. Julian, you have gotten to use a lot of these things this year. What was your opinion on them at the beginning of the year and how has it changed now that you've seen more of them? Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe JC : I think what's exciting about foldables is that they come in various form factors and shapes and all that stuff, so the Razr for example, was not intended to be a phone that you can perhaps do more on, like some of the other companies are pitching, it was actually more of a smaller phone form factor. It would take a normal sized phone and fold it in half so you have this tiny thing that sits in your pocket, which honestly, I think a lot of people would really like, and I did like it.
But the software experience is very crucial for these foldables and that's something that I think we haven't really seen yet, a really immersive software experience that makes using the phone a lot more fun than what it is right now. And I think that's something we might see with the Duo, especially because Microsoft has been working closely with Google. But things with the Galaxy Fold, the original, my issue with that was that I enjoyed running apps side by side, but a lot of the times it was actually hard to multitask because I can still only really pay attention to one screen at a time.
So a lot of these promises of doing a lot more with two screened phones doesn't necessarily add up, if you still need to focus your attention on one of those screens. I'm the type of person that can't watch something in the background and work on an edit, or write an article like some people can. So that just might be me, but for a lot of intents and purposes, I think dual screen phones are still really going to be relying on that software polish, and that's one of the things that I'm excited for with the Duo.
MC : Now, a big part of the equation with the hardware is screen material. Some of the earliest examples that we started to see a few years ago used a chintzy plastic, and even some of the ones that we've seen recently, have a very thin plastic screen. Samsung famously has its own material that it calls ultra thin glass, and we know that Corning is working on flexible glass, so am I right in assuming that everybody agrees that glass is best? Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe JC : Yeah, funny enough I think it's one of the more durable options compared to plastic. We had a lot of those issues with the plastic displays on the original Galaxy Fold, and ever since switching to ultra thin glass for Samsung's case, it's been a lot better, even though it's not perfect, there's still a lot of people that have issues. But it's one of those things that through iterations it'll get better, and I think glass is going to be what people are sticking with, especially as we figure out more ways to make it more flexible and more durable.
Plastic definitely seems to be something that people are shying away from, but I do think that people might rely on plastic if they want to make cheaper foldable phones. For example, I know TCL has been aiming to do a cheap foldable phone, I don't know if that's going to come this year or next year, but most likely they will stick with plastic to get that price point down. But eventually, I hope that most of these foldables are going to stick with class.
MC : How cheap is cheap in TCL's case? JC : I think at the time they had suggested something around $1,000, which I guess is cheaper than some of these other devices, but that was a true foldable, unlike the Duo, which is $1,400 and it's technically two screens.
MC : That's a big point, because as we talked about last week, and as we continue talking about all the time on WIRED, you can get a really, really good phone for around $450, usually even less than that. So it's asking quite a bit to ask somebody to pay $,1000 more than that to get a phone that is sort of awkward, and very, very different. So I wonder , who is buying these things? Is it anyone? Is it companies who are buying them for their executives? JC : I will say that, I think what ends up happening is, I always say, "Don't buy these devices unless you have the money to spend it, or if you're someone that's an early adopter and you really, really want to try this stuff out". Because as we've seen with something like a 5G phone, that's something that we said last year, "Don't buy a 5G phone. It doesn't make sense. It's too expensive and you can barely get 5G as it is right now". And now you look at it, if you were on Sprint last year and you bought a 5G phone, your 5G phone is not going to work because they're discontinuing Sprint's 5G network and it's rolling into T-Mobile.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe It's one of those things that you don't know how long... this Surface Duo could be a flop and maybe Microsoft is like, "Well, to hell with dual screen phones, we're going to stick with laptops or something else". So I would say that for most people, see how it goes, look at reviews and eventually hope that this stuff will come down at a lower price point that's more stomachable. For now it's just early adopters, and people with the money for it that really want to pay for these things, that should buy these things.
MC : For me, the big thing is durability. If I'm going to spend over $1,000 on something, I would like it to not have moving parts on it that a regular phone does not, like the hinge, for example. Whenever the companies come out with something like this, they show you that video of the robot that they've built that folds and unfolds it a million times, and they say that this is a superior hinge to every other hinge that has ever come before. Good for them. I'm happy that their industrial designers are happy with the hinge that they've created, but the phone that I have costs $1,000 less and does not have a hinge. So I wonder if there is some anxiety built into the price, that has to do with durability? JC : Yes and no. Yes, in the sense that these things are definitely way more likely to break, but it is also the only way that we can eventually get to a point where we will have really strong foldable phones. For example, the difference in something like the original Galaxy Fold to, hopefully, this next one, will be so much greater because Samsung realized and messed up that durability initially, that it now took so many more precautions and steps to fixing it. So I think there needs to be some of those failures first, which is precisely, again, why we suggest that people don't really buy these things because this is sort of a market test for them. They get to put these things out to people, the super hardcore fans buy it, test it out, and then if it breaks on them, well, then Samsung can say, "Well, go back to the drawing board and let's make a even better version".
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe So I think it naturally will get better over time because of these durability issues that stem from the early beginnings. But of course, for the average consumer, that's again, don't buy these things because yes, they're still prone to breaking. You can say the same thing for the $1,000 iPhone 11, it's still prone to blood breaking, it's glass on the front and the back, so there is always going to be an argument about durability with these expensive phones, but it shouldn't necessarily hinder you from completely forgetting about buying a foldable phone in the future.
MC : I think part of that market test is also going to be the use case for it; where does a foldable make the most sense? Is it a phone? Is it something you could pocket? Is it a laptop, a tablet, an eReader like a Kindle type device? JC : For me, I think I would prefer a laptop, for example, compared to a phone, because at the end of the day, typing on these things when they're open with the full screens out is very, very hard, and it's not fun. The amount of times when, especially on the go, before times, it was something that I didn't really open up the phone to use that full dual screen experience when I'm on the subway or something like that, I usually just use that single screen. So for me, I would prefer a tablet or a laptop, and I've seen Lenovo has this really cool computer that is a foldable, that makes it so that I don't need to lug around this gigantic thing in my backpack. It's much smaller and gives me about the same screen real estate as a traditional laptop.
MC : Back in October, when Microsoft first showed off the Duo, they also showed something called the Neo, which was a super portable surface device that ran Windows X, is that right? JC : Yeah. We haven't really heard much since, I think it's going to be delayed if they haven't said that already, but it's supposed to be a foldable laptop with this special version of Windows that Microsoft is building that's more in tune with foldable devices. There are already some foldable laptops out there, or dual screen laptops out there, and so this is software that's supposed to be a little more friendly for those interfaces which rely on touch more so than a track bed, for example. That should be pretty exciting, it's going to be available for the Neo, but it's also going to be available for all these other manufacturers that are making these dual screen or foldable laptops too.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe MC : How long until Apple makes a foldable? JC : That's the question isn't it? Because you just know that no one is going to care until Apple drops a foldable, and then suddenly it's the greatest thing in the world. I do think there's merit in that because Apple often does take its time, and they refine these things to a point where it's a little more polished and much more user friendly. For example, say, the opposite of what Samsung would do, which is totally drop a phone and then have it become basically a disaster, and then you have to repair it and build up your image back again, and then say, "This one's more durable the second time around".
Apple is definitely going to have something a little more polished I think, I think they will do a foldable because it's where everything is going, I think that's where the technology is going and I think people will eventually want that when the software is polished enough. Think about it, having an iPad that you can fold into this mini little thing that you can maybe put in a pocket, or a tiny little bag that you don't have to lug something heavier around. That sounds cool to me.
MC : I can't stop shaking my head. I really can't. I just can't see a future where we all have foldable devices. I can see a future where we all have very, very thin flexible devices, so when you put it in your pocket it doesn't feel like you're carrying a second wallet, but I can't see fold up my iPad and get off the train. I don't see it.
JC : To be fair, I think that's something way down the pipeline. I don't see that happening at least for the next five-ish years. Maybe it will, but the vision that I'm thinking of with something like a seamless iPad that you can quickly fold up, the thing that you've seen on Black Mirror, for example; that's the sort of thing I think will take at least 10 years, if not a little more than that.
MC : All right. So you heard it here first, 2025, folding iPad.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe JC : Oh God.
MC : Send your Venmo reward to @JulianChokkattu on Venmo. Let's take a quick break, and we'll come back and we'll wrap up with recommendations.
[Break] MC : All right. Here's the end of the show where we tell people about the things that they can stream, purchase, do, that will dramatically improve their lives. Julian, what is your recommendation this week? JC : I don't have a particular single item. I'd say it's more of a ideology or philosophy, or whatever you want to call it. But basically my partner and I sit right next to each other for the past six months in this whole pandemic, we're both working from home. And that has been interesting, I can't play music loudly because she often has to take calls for her work, so I'm often on headphones, and in general it's crowded.
It's mostly been nice and fun, but having now switched to this mini workspace that I built in my bedroom with a little standing desk, and a little extra monitor here, it made it so much more fun and relaxing in a way, or it's a nice change of pace, I should say. It's a nice space away where I can hang out, blast some music and not have to wear headphones. It's more relaxing and lets me focus a little more sometimes.
I say all this knowing that my partner is probably going to kill me, because it sounds like I absolutely hate working next to her. That's not true, but I think that everyone should really create a separate space for themselves during this pandemic, move around from where you traditionally set at and go sit somewhere else; use a standing desk if you need to fit it in your bedroom, or get a second monitor or something like that, it's nice.
MC : I got a standing desk last month, because I needed to break up the posture of sitting in a chair in the same spot for eight hours.
JC : It definitely is something that I think mentally will help you, because sitting in the exact same spot for six months in a row is definitely not good.
MC : We've all been there, man. We're all there right now. Those of us who, we should say, are lucky enough to have jobs where we're able to work from home.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe JC : Yeah.
MC : So my recommendation this week is a food thing. It's called Bachan's Japanese Barbecue Sauce, and Bachan is Japanese slang for grandmother. It's this family recipe from these guys in Northern California, it's like teriyaki sauce, but it has more stuff in it, it has more ginger, it has some tomato paste in it, so you can use it like you would use a teriyaki sauce, but you can also use it as a marinade. I have been putting it on absolutely everything. I put it on tacos. I put it on donburi, rice bowls. I drizzle it on top of sushi when I make sushi now. I use it as a marinade a lot for when I'm making vegetables, or tofu, or dishes with tempeh, because I also have a vacuum sealer. I get totally nerdy with it, it's just amazing.
It's kind of expensive. It's $14 for a bottle, but if you buy multiple bottles, you get discounts, and if you find it in a grocery store, usually it's around $9 or $10, or even cheaper in some places. It is a regional product, so it's probably harder to find east of the Mississippi in grocery stores, but they do ship around the country if you go to their website at Bachan's.com, it's B A C H A N, and then, apostrophe S at the end.
It's really one of those condiments, where you've been trying to make your own version of this for a long time, and you've tried all the bottled ones and they're not very good, and you can make a version of it yourself and it comes out a little bit weird, and every once in a while it tastes good. This is in a bottle, it's really good ingredients, it's all non-GMO, they use organic where they can, and it's perfect. I absolutely love it. So that's my recommendation. If you like those umami, tangy, teriyaki flavors, then you have to try this stuff because it's really good.
JC : You're making me very hungry.
MC : Yes. It's also lunchtime, and I'm about to go make some tacos and pour this stuff all over it. All right. Well that is our show. Thank you Julian again for joining us.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe JC : Thank you for having me.
MC : Of course. And now you can fold up your computer and put it in your pocket and go back to your day. Thank you all for listening. If you have any feedback about the show, you can find all of us on Twitter, just check the show notes. Be sure to listen to the other podcasts that we do, it's called get WIRED, Lauren Goode is the host, it comes out on Mondays. It's been really, really good since it launched about a month ago, I highly recommend that you go out and subscribe to it pronto. This show, Gadget Lab, is produced by Boone Ashworth, our executive producer is Alex Kapelman, we will be back next week with Lauren back on the mic. Until then, please wear a mask. Goodbye.
[Gadget Lab outro theme music] How to outrun a dinosaur (just in case) Inside Citizen, the app that asks you to report on the crime next door The age of mass surveillance will not last forever A study finds sex differences in the brain.
Does it matter ? These Black founders succeeded in spite of Silicon Valley 🎙️ Listen to Get WIRED , our new podcast about how the future is realized. Catch the latest episodes and subscribe to the 📩 newsletter to keep up with all our shows 💻 Upgrade your work game with our Gear team’s favorite laptops , keyboards , typing alternatives , and noise-canceling headphones Topics Gadget Lab Podcast podcasts Microsoft folding devices Michael Calore Julian Chokkattu Julian Chokkattu Nena Farrell Brenda Stolyar Nena Farrell Jaina Grey Louryn Strampe WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Best Buy coupon: Score $300 off select laptops VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
