Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Mat Honan Gear New Lark Bracelet Wants to Track Your Whole Life The new Larklife bracelet and smartphone app will track your every step, snack and moment of sleep.
Photo: Lark Technologies Save this story Save Save this story Save If you've been to an Apple Store lately, you've likely seen the Lark, a sleep-tracking bracelet with a vibrating alarm. On Monday, the company announced a new bracelet, the Larklife , designed to track your entire day. The larklife will clock how long you sleep, what you eat, and when and how much you exercise, then use that data to help you make better decisions about your health.
The Ammunition Group -designed bracelet has a center core with a three-axis accelerometer to track movement and flashing lights that provide instant feedback, and an associated app to give you a deeper dive into your data. Swappable wristbands -- a sweat-proof one for daytime use and another softer band for the night -- provide power to the core, and charge when not in use. While the accelerometer tracks movement and sleep, you can add in meals either via the smartphone app, or simply by tapping the bracelet's core. It communicates all that to an iOS app via Bluetooth. Lark CEO Julia Hu told Wired that the bracelet is designed to make tracking easy and attainable for people who aren't elite athletes or quantified-selfers.
There are already several other products in this field -- everything from the smash hit Nike Fuel Band to the just-announced FitBit Zip. What makes the Larklife intriguing is the way it not only tracks but also provides feedback based on your circadian rhythm. It can use push notifications to send alerts to your phone to let you know, for example, that you've been sitting for a long time and it might be a good time to get up and take a walk, or that you didn't get enough quality sleep last night and should have something to eat.
Another interesting feature is the device's ability to become more knowledgeable about its wearer over time. The company says the bracelet uses machine learning to get better at tracking your exercise, so it can tell, for example, when you are walking and when you are running -- or whether that gentle rocking motion means you are on a bike or the subway.
Larklife will be $149.99. Although no shiping date was announced, the company says it will be available before the end of the year.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Senior Staff Writer Topics apparel fitness health privacy Scott Gilbertson Reece Rogers Scott Gilbertson Boone Ashworth Carlton Reid Virginia Heffernan Matt Jancer Matt Jancer WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Best Buy coupon: Score $300 off select laptops VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
