Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Arielle Pardes Gear The Best Hiking Apps to Keep From Getting Lost No cell service? No problem.
Photograph: Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Ah, the great outdoors. The flora, the fauna, the welcome mystery of the open trail stretched before you. You’ve left it all behind, until … Wait. Where’s the map? Did you mean to turn left back at that fork? What direction is the campsite anyway? Is it starting to get dark? Don't lose yourself out there. Download one of these trail-mapping hiking apps to make sure you can always find your way, whether you have cell service or not.
Photograph: AllTrails Every outdoor explorer needs AllTrails on their phone. The app catalogs over 200,000 trails around the world—including in Antarctica. Its handy filters let you search trails by elevation, activity type, dog-friendliness, and much more. If you're trekking beyond cell range, pony up for the pro membership ($30 for a year, or $60 for a prepaid three-year plan, iOS and Android ), which lets you download maps ahead of time, track your exact location using GPS, and view map overlays of your chosen route that show everything from the weather to the air quality to light pollution levels. And if you get really lost, the app's Lifeline feature sends a status update to your designated safety contact either with your location either with a tap, or if you're not at your destination by a specified time. Pro memberships are also ad-free, and AllTrails donates 1 percent of the proceeds to environment-focused nonprofits.
Designed for backpackers, Gaia offers topographical and satellite maps for any kind of outdoor adventure. Whether you're on a day hike, a mountain biking trip, a hunting excursion, or deep in the backcountry, the app is built to get you where you're going safely and with as much information as possible. There is a free version, but for more advanced hikers it’s well worth it to get the premium membership ($40 for a year, iOS and Android ), which lets you download maps for offline use. You also get NOAA weather forecasts and layers to designate private land, public land, air quality, snow, and recent wildfires. Gaia GPS supports more than 30 languages, from Hindi to Hebrew.
If you're a long-distance hiker, Guthook Guides offers some of the extras you might be looking for. In addition to the seven map types—several of which work offline—GPS tracking, water sources, and more, each guide provides an incredibly thorough listing of waypoints, including images to help ensure you're in the right spot, plus comments left by other Guthook users. You can update family and friends on the progress of your hike and find detailed information on everything from trailheads to liquor stores along the way. Most appealing for thru-hikers, the guides range widely in price depending on the route; the map for California's Lost Cost Trail will set you back five bucks, while the full Appalachian Trail guide costs $60.
The offline mapping data on Google Maps won't work for the serious backpacker, but a cheapskate on a leisurely hike, there are worse options. Enable the topographic map layer to see more detail in the areas between landmarks, then download the map of your hiking area for offline viewing. Drop a few pins along the way and you should be able to find your way around using the offline GPS functionality. You can also share your route with others. It's not perfect—but it's free! Hey, is that poison oak? Identify every leaf and vine along the way with Seek (free, iOS and Android ), the Shazam for plants. What’s that mountain in the distance? Use PeakVisor ($5, iOS and Android ) to display the name, elevation, and distance of any peak in augmented reality. How’s the weather on the trails today? Check on Weather Live (free, iOS and Android ) for detailed information on temperature, precipitation, wind speed and direction, UV and visibility; it also tells you when you’ll find “golden hour” for those perfect outdoor selfies.
Navigating by the stars? Find your way with Spyglass ($6, iOS and Android ), which puts measuring instruments on your smartphone's display—including a speedometer, altimeter, inclinometer, optical rangefinder, sextant, angular calculator, and a tool to track the position of the stars, sun, and moon.
For a little extra peace of mind, Cairn ( iOS and Android ) crowdsources where people have found cell coverage on the trail, so you always know how far you are from your nearest reliable signal. It's free to download, but premium features like offline maps and real-time location sharing cost $5 a month or $27 for a fully year.
Lastly, accidents happen. Download the Red Cross’s First Aid app (free, iOS and Android ) for quick advice on everything from dealing with an earthquake to a broken bone.
The infrastructure mess causing countless web outages The terrifying unknowns of an exotic invasive tick An aviation pioneer goes all in on electric planes Fear, misinformation, and measles spread in Brooklyn Change your life: bestride the bidet 💻 Upgrade your work game with our Gear team’s favorite laptops , keyboards , typing alternatives , and noise-canceling headphones 📩 Want more? Sign up for our daily newsletter and never miss our latest and greatest stories Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Senior Writer X Topics outdoors maps Apps Jordan McMahon Matt Jancer Justin Pot Scott Gilbertson Louryn Strampe Simon Hill Simon Hill Justin Pot WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
