Account overview Billing Profile Emails & marketing Data privacy Settings Help Comments & replies Sign out switch to the US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition current edition: The Guardian - Back to home News US news World news Environment US politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA NHL F1 Golf Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money What term do you want to search? Search with google Support us Print subscriptions US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Facebook Twitter Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show More US World Environment US Politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Raising HAL Raising HAL is a blog by science writer Martin Robbins, with a focus on artificial intelligence, and the data and algorithms that make up the fabric of our new online reality Conspiracy theories about Grenfell are understandable, but unhelpful Disasters like Grenfell offend our sense of control over the world, and challenge the unconscious faith we have in a ‘system’ that cares about us Published: 10:15 AM Conspiracy theories about Grenfell are understandable, but unhelpful The polls could be right about Labour's gains - but also misleading Don’t be fooled by apparently good numbers. Despite Labour’s recent gains, regional trends in recent polling suggest big names like Tom Watson and Clive Lewis, along with Lib Dem leader Tim Farron, could be under threat Published: 5:12 AM The polls could be right about Labour's gains - but also misleading Lib Dems shouldn't count on Remain votes - the data looks bleak Conventional wisdom suggests the Tories could bleed Remain votes to the Lib Dems. Our detailed data analysis suggests this idea could be very wrong indeed Published: 7:38 AM Lib Dems shouldn't count on Remain votes - the data looks bleak Tactical voting to beat the Tories: does the maths equal a coalition? Every few years, someone suggests forming a progressive coalition to beat the Conservatives. Could a Lib/Lab/Green alliance really beat Theresa May? Published: 6:38 AM Tactical voting to beat the Tories: does the maths equal a coalition? This is it: the one true explanation for Donald Trump's victory Everyone’s theories are wrong: through cunning and selective use of statistics, I can prove that my pet whinge is the reason for Trump’s election win Published: 11:10 AM This is it: the one true explanation for Donald Trump's victory Fake news and fact-checking: Trump is demonstrating how to outsmart an AI Martin Robbins: Automated fact-checking is hard enough, but Trump’s ‘chaos by design’ threatens to render it obsolete. Can Artificial Intelligence keep our grip on reality? Published: 7:34 AM Fake news and fact-checking: Trump is demonstrating how to outsmart an AI Here's why if Lee Hurst were strapped to a time bomb I wouldn't torture a terrorist Martin Robbins Martin Robbins: In the wake of Donald Trump’s claim that torture ‘absolutely’ works, comedian Lee Hurst has tweeted a terrorism scenario. Here’s why it’s wrong Published: 8:41 AM Published: 8:41 AM Here's why if Lee Hurst were strapped to a time bomb I wouldn't torture a terrorist Heads in the Cloud: Are Westworld’s robots poorly designed? Martin Robbins: The park engineers in HBO’s Westworld should probably be fired for some of the bad choices they made Published: 7:11 AM Heads in the Cloud: Are Westworld’s robots poorly designed? What would happen if every single Green voter switched to Labour? Martin Robbins: It has been suggested that Labour should focus on the Green vote in marginal constituencies. What would happen if they succeeded? Published: 1:17 PM What would happen if every single Green voter switched to Labour? AI guides your daily life, but is it liberal or conservative? Recommender systems influence our cultural, social and political lives, but are they agents of diversity or conservative guardians? Published: 6:24 AM AI guides your daily life, but is it liberal or conservative? Do crowds really make the best decisions? I found out using scotch Martin Robbins: To find out whether the ‘wisdom of crowds’ is real, I asked people on Twitter to guess the weight of my scotch. With Britons voting in a referendum to leave the EU, their responses speak volumes about the ability of populations to find the right answers Published: 7:01 AM Do crowds really make the best decisions? I found out using scotch Statistically, self-driving cars are about to kill someone. What happens next? Martin Robbins.
As autonomous vehicles rack up more and more miles on our roads, the odds of a fatal accident are shortening by the day. How will we react? Published: 5:39 AM Statistically, self-driving cars are about to kill someone. What happens next? Does an AI need to make love to Rembrandt’s girlfriend to make art? Is a picture made by an artificial intelligence ‘art’ if there’s no emotion involved? And what happens if you train a neural net to make music using only the Friends theme tune? Published: 6:52 AM Does an AI need to make love to Rembrandt’s girlfriend to make art? The NHS is a much bigger challenge for DeepMind than Go Training a computer to play Go is an impressive achievement, but AlphaGo may be a long way from being a useful product.
Published: 6:40 AM The NHS is a much bigger challenge for DeepMind than Go How real is that Atlas robot video? Published: 7:06 AM How real is that Atlas robot video? Raising HAL: introducing our new AI and data blog Published: 6:34 AM Raising HAL: introducing our new AI and data blog The Lay Scientist Has a rampaging AI algorithm really killed thousands in Pakistan? A killer machine-learning algorithm guiding the U.S. drone program has killed thousands of innocent people according to some reports. What’s the truth? Published: 10:10 AM Has a rampaging AI algorithm really killed thousands in Pakistan? The Lay Scientist Is BB-8 a woman: why are we so determined to assign gender to AI? From droids in a galaxy far, far away to the computers in our back pockets, we make huge assumptions about the identities of our machine companions Published: 7:38 AM Is BB-8 a woman: why are we so determined to assign gender to AI? The Lay Scientist Artificial Intelligence: Gods, egos and Ex Machina Even with its flaws, last year’s Ex Machina perfectly captured the curious relationship between artificial intelligence, God and ego. A tiny change in its closing moments would have given it an intriguing new dimension.
Published: 6:49 AM Artificial Intelligence: Gods, egos and Ex Machina Topics Artificial intelligence (AI) Computing Consciousness Conservatives General election 2017 US World Environment US Politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top Close
