Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Alphabet’s Intrinsic aims to unlock industrial robotics’ economic potential Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Intrinsic Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Google parent Alphabet has spun out a new industrial robotics company called Intrinsic.
Led by Wendy Tan-White , a veteran entrepreneur and investor who has served as VP of “moonshots” at Alphabet’s R&D business X since 2019, Intrinsic is setting out to “unlock the creative and economic potential” of the $42 billion industrial robotics market. The company said it’s creating “software tools” to make industrial robots more affordable and easier to use, extending their utility beyond big businesses and to more people — 70% of the world’s manufacturing currently takes place in just 10 countries.
Surge Industrial robots have surged in demand over the past year in the wake of the pandemic — in Q1 this year, the Association for Advancing Automation reported a 19.6% increase in orders across North America alone. While such robots have historically been concentrated in the automobile industry, they have segued into many facets of the economy, from ecommerce warehouses to medical equipment assembly.
Developing dexterous, performative robotic arms is only part of the battle in terms of automating traditional manufacturing tasks. The process of “teaching” robots how to carry out a relatively simple task can be a resource-intensive endeavor requiring specialist expertise, and this is the part Intrinsic is working on.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “Over the last few years, our team has been exploring how to give industrial robots the ability to sense, learn, and automatically make adjustments as they’re completing tasks so they work in a wider range of settings and applications,” Tan-White wrote in a blog post.
 “Working in collaboration with teams across Alphabet, and with our partners in real-world manufacturing settings, we’ve been testing software that uses techniques like automated perception, deep learning, reinforcement learning, motion planning, simulation, and force control.” Above: Gramazio Kohler Research, ETH Zurich It’s still early days for Intrinsic, but as an independent business it will be better positioned to develop its software and validate its products in more real-world industrial settings. The company said it’s looking for partners in health care, electronics, and automotive industries that are “already using industrial robotics and want to learn together.” Intrinsic joins a host of previous projects to graduate from Alphabet’s secretive X labs, including its self-driving car unit Waymo ; Loon and Wing, its internet-beaming balloons and drone delivery service units, respectively; and Malta, its molten-salt energy storage project.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
