Toggle Navigation News Events TNW Conference 2024 June 20 & 21, 2024 TNW Vision: 2024 All events Spaces Programs Newsletters Partner with us Jobs Contact News news news news Latest Deep tech Sustainability Ecosystems Data and security Fintech and ecommerce Future of work More Startups and technology Investors and funding Government and policy Corporates and innovation Gadgets & apps Early bird Business passes are 90% SOLD OUT 🎟️ Buy now before they are gone → This article was published on March 23, 2021 Deep tech DARPA to test AI-controlled jets in live-fly dogfights after successful simulations The agency recently tested algorithms in two-on-one aerial combat simulations Image by: DARPA DARPA’s mission to develop AI fighter jets has moved a step closer to take-off.
The military research agency’s algorithms took down an Air Force pilot in a virtual dogfight last year. In February, the Pentagon’s “mad science” unit tested how they’d perform as a team.
The battle pitted two friendly F-16s against a single enemy aircraft. Each fighter jet was equipped with a gun for short-range engagements and a missile for more distant targets.
Colonel Dan “Animal” Javorsek, program manager in DARPA’s Strategic Technology Office, said testing multiple weapons and aircraft introduced new dynamics to the trials: These new engagements represent an important step in building trust in the algorithms since they allow us to assess how the AI agents handle clear avenue of fire restrictions set up to prevent fratricide. This is exceedingly important when operating with offensive weapons in a dynamic and confusing environment that includes a manned fighter and also affords the opportunity to increase the complexity and teaming associated with maneuvering two aircraft in relation to an adversary.
Get your ticket NOW for TNW Conference - Super Earlybird is 90% sold out! Unleash innovation, connect with thousands of tech lovers and shape the future on June 20-21, 2024.
DARPA is also assessing how much pilots trust the systems. Javorsek said they’ve installed sensors in a jet to measure physiological responses, such as where a pilot’s head is pointing and where their eyes are moving: This enables us to see how much the pilot is checking on the autonomy by looking outside the window, and comparing that to how much time they spend on their battle management task.
They now plan to test out AI on real-world aircraft. To do this, DARPA is creating an aero-performance model of an L-39 jet trainer, which the algorithm will use to make predictions and maneuver decisions.
Once the model is complete, the agency will begin modifying the aircraft so the algorithm can control it.
The Pentagon plans to test them in live-fly dogfights in late 2023 and 2024.
[Read: Iranian nuclear scientist allegedly assassinated via killer robot ] Critics, however, have questioned the value of the trials. The rules-based nature of air-to-air combat is a good fit for algorithmic decisions and the “perfect information” supplied by the simulators isn’t available in the field.
Even if the AI worked equally well in reality, there’s been only one dogfight involving a US aircraft in the last 20 years.
A more pressing concern involves the rush to develop autonomous weapons. An AI arms race could encourage countries to cut corners on safety considerations, and even trigger an accidental war.
HT – The Drive Greetings Humanoids! Did you know we have a newsletter all about AI? You can subscribe to it right here.
Story by Thomas Macaulay Senior reporter Thomas is a senior reporter at TNW. He covers European tech, with a focus on deeptech, startups, and government policy.
Thomas is a senior reporter at TNW. He covers European tech, with a focus on deeptech, startups, and government policy.
Get the TNW newsletter Get the most important tech news in your inbox each week.
Also tagged with Artificial intelligence Military DARPA Story by Thomas Macaulay Popular articles 1 New erotic roleplaying chatbots promise to indulge your sexual fantasies 2 UK plan to lead in generative AI ‘unrealistic,’ say Cambridge researchers 3 New AI tool could make future vaccines ‘variant-proof,’ researchers say 4 3D-printed stem cells could help treat brain injuries 5 New technique makes AI hallucinations wake up and face reality Related Articles deep tech How Europe is racing to resolve its AI sovereignty woes deep tech UN creates AI advisory body to ‘maximise’ benefits for humankind Join TNW All Access Watch videos of our inspiring talks for free → data security Netherlands building own version of ChatGPT amid quest for safer AI deep tech How this Berlin startup deploys AI to make preventative healthcare accessible The heart of tech More TNW Media Events Programs Spaces Newsletters Jobs in tech About TNW Partner with us Jobs Terms & Conditions Cookie Statement Privacy Statement Editorial Policy Masthead Copyright © 2006—2023, The Next Web B.V. Made with <3 in Amsterdam.
