Toggle Navigation News Events TNW Conference 2024 June 20 & 21, 2024 TNW Vision: 2024 All events Spaces Programs Newsletters Partner with us Jobs Contact News news news news Latest Deep tech Sustainability Ecosystems Data and security Fintech and ecommerce Future of work More Startups and technology Investors and funding Government and policy Corporates and innovation Gadgets & apps Early bird Business passes are 90% SOLD OUT 🎟️ Buy now before they are gone → This article was published on June 3, 2021 Deep tech China’s ‘Wu Dao’ AI is 10X bigger than GPT-3, and it can sing Size isn't everything Image by: Possessed Photography on Unsplash China’s going all in on deep learning. The Beijing Academy of Artificial Intelligence (BAAI) recently released details concerning its “Wu Dao” AI system – and there’s a lot to unpack here.
Up front: Wu Dao is a multi-modal AI system. That means it can do a bunch of different things. It can generate text, audio, and images, and, according to Engadget , it can even “power virtual idols.” The reason for all the hullabaloo surrounding Wu Dao involves its size. This AI model is huge.
 It was trained using a whopping 1.75 trillion parameters. For comparison, OpenAI’s biggest model, GPT-3, was trained with just 175 billion.
Background: According to Zhang Hongjiang, the chairman of BAAI, the academy’s intent is to create the biggest, most powerful AI model possible.
Get your ticket NOW for TNW Conference - Super Earlybird is 90% sold out! Unleash innovation, connect with thousands of tech lovers and shape the future on June 20-21, 2024.
Per the aforementioned Engadget report, Zhang said: The path to general artificial intelligence is big models and big computer [sic]. What we are building is a power plant for the future of AI, with mega data, mega computing power, and mega models, we can transform data to fuel the AI applications of the future.
Quick take: This AI system sounds like a breakthrough UI for deep learning tricks, but it’s doubtful this kind of brute-force method will eventually lead to general artificial intelligence.
It’s cool to know there’s a powerful AI out there that can make music videos, write poetry, and create captions for images on its own. And, with so many parameters, Wu Dao surely produces some incredibly convincing outputs.
But creating a general AI – that is, an AI capable of performing any relative task a human can – isn’t necessarily a matter of increasing the power and parameters of a deep learning system.
Details as to exactly how Wu Dao was trained, what was in its various datasets, and what practical applications it can be used for remain scarce. It’s impossible to do a direct comparison to GPT-3 at this point.
But, even if we assume Wu Dao is 10-times better across the board, there’s still no reason to believe that’ll move the needle any closer to truly-intelligent machines.
A steadily-increasing number of AI and computer science experts are under the belief that deep learning is a dead-end street for general artificial intelligence.
We may already be seeing diminishing returns on power if the most exciting thing about a system trained on supercomputer clusters with 1.75T parameters is that it can generate digital pop stars.
Story by Tristan Greene Editor, Neural by TNW Tristan is a futurist covering human-centric artificial intelligence advances, quantum computing, STEM, physics, and space stuff. Pronouns: (show all) Tristan is a futurist covering human-centric artificial intelligence advances, quantum computing, STEM, physics, and space stuff. Pronouns: He/him Get the TNW newsletter Get the most important tech news in your inbox each week.
Also tagged with China Supercomputer Deep Learning Story by Tristan Greene Popular articles 1 New erotic roleplaying chatbots promise to indulge your sexual fantasies 2 UK plan to lead in generative AI ‘unrealistic,’ say Cambridge researchers 3 New AI tool could make future vaccines ‘variant-proof,’ researchers say 4 3D-printed stem cells could help treat brain injuries 5 New technique makes AI hallucinations wake up and face reality Related Articles deep tech UK scaleup launches groundbreaking approach to ID verification: turning your head sustainability UK taps digital twin in bid for world’s first fusion power plant Join TNW All Access Watch videos of our inspiring talks for free → deep tech Startup unveils AI breakthrough for male fertility diagnosis data security Deep learning model can steal data by listening to keystrokes with 95% accuracy The heart of tech More TNW Media Events Programs Spaces Newsletters Jobs in tech About TNW Partner with us Jobs Terms & Conditions Cookie Statement Privacy Statement Editorial Policy Masthead Copyright © 2006—2023, The Next Web B.V. Made with <3 in Amsterdam.
