Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Private AI’s PrivateGPT aims to combat ChatGPT privacy concerns Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Today, data privacy provider Private AI , announced the launch of PrivateGPT, a “privacy layer” for large language models (LLMs) such as OpenAI’s ChatGPT. The new tool is designed to automatically redact sensitive information and personally identifiable information (PII) from user prompts.
PrivateAI uses its proprietary AI system to redact more than 50 types of PII from user prompts before they’re submitted to ChatGPT, repopulating the PII with placeholder data to allow users to query the LLM without exposing sensitive data to OpenAI.
Scrutiny of ChatGPT increasing The announcement comes as scrutiny over OpenAI’s data protection practices are beginning to rise, with Italy temporarily banning ChatGPT over privacy concerns, and Canada’s federal privacy commissioner launching a separate investigation into the organization after receiving a complaint alleging “the collection, use and disclosure of personal information without consent.” “Generative AI will only have a space within our organizations and societies if the right tools exist to make it safe to use,” Patricia Thaine, cofounder and CEO of Private AI said in the announcement press release.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “ChatGPT is not excluded from data protection laws like the GDPR, HIPAA, PCI DSS, or the CPPA. The GDPR, for example, requires companies to get consent for all uses of their users’ personal data and also comply with requests to be forgotten,” Thaine said. “By sharing personal information with third-party organizations, they lose control over how that data is stored and used, putting themselves at serious risk of compliance violations.” Data anonymization techniques essential However, PrivateAI isn’t the only organization that’s designed a solution to harden OpenAI’s data protection capabilities. At the end of March, cloud security provider Cado Security announced the release of Masked-AI , an open source tool designed to mask sensitive data submitted to GPT-4.
Like PrivateGPT, Masked-AI masks sensitive data such as names, credit card numbers, email addresses, phone numbers, web links and IP addresses and replaces them with placeholders before sending a redacted request to the OpenAI API.
Together, PrivateAI and Cado Security’s attempts to bolt additional privacy capabilities onto established LLMs highlights that data anonymization techniques will be essential for organizations looking to leverage solutions like ChatGPT while minimizing their exposure to third parties.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
