Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Infinera, optical networking company, files for IPO, at long last Editor Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Infinera , the Sunnyvale, Calif. fiber-optic equipment company that says its technology is superior to existing offerings, has filed to go public, submitting its registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission to raise about $150 million.
It isn’t profitable, but sales are showing momentum.
It brought in $44.3 million during the quarter ended Dec. 31, compared to just $4.1 million for all of 2005. The company had losses of $89.1 million for last year.
There’s a good summary of Infinera’s plans in Light Reading.
 The IPO has been anticipated for quite some time.
The company has 605 employees. It has raised $315 million since 2000, with $110 million of that coming in July. The largest shareholders are Advanced Equities Inc. and Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, which with about 6.4 million shares, and a 9.3 percent ownership. Mobius Venture Capital and RWI Ventures own 7.8 and 5 percent, respectively.
Other investors include Accel Partners, Agilent Technologies, Applied Materials, CTC, Cypress Semiconductor, JAFCO Ventures, Juniper Networks, Sprout Group, Sutter Hill Ventures, UTStarcom, Venrock Associates and Worldview Technology Partners.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
