Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages AI photography platform Meero raises $230 million to become France’s newest unicorn Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Paris-based Meero said today it has raised $230 million in venture capital for its AI-driven photography platform, pushing the company past a valuation of $1 billion.
Founded in 2016, Meero wants to reinvent the market for professional photography by using artificial intelligence to process large batches of images for businesses like ecommerce or travel. Its platform connects professional photographers with clients and then uses AI to handle most of the post-production.
In a business world increasingly reliant on images to promote services and products around the globe, Meero seems to have hit on a need that is driving rapid growth. The massive size of the round, one of Europe’s largest this year, will catapult the company into the small ranks of French unicorns, which the country is hoping to grow significantly in the coming years.
CEO and founder Thomas Rebaud said the size of the round was a testament not just to the company’s growth, but to its global ambitions.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “If you want to make it happen quickly, we need to invest in many different things at the same time,” he said.
The latest round was led by Eurazeo, Prime Ventures, and Avenir Growth, but also included participation from past investors Global Founders Capital, Aglaé Ventures, Alven, White Star Capital, and Idinvest. It follows a previous fundraising of $45 million last year , and brings the company’s total to $300 million.
Meero says it now has 31,000 clients in about 100 countries. Customers include Just Eat, Expedia, Trivago, and Uber.
Rebaud said that historically, when big brands needed large numbers of photos taken around the world, they faced a huge task of finding local photographers and then ensuring consistency of look and style in the editing process. A single photographer retouching hundreds of photos via Photoshop, for instance, would take ages and still not achieve the desired degree of consistency, he said.
Meero automates much of that through its AI production process, which also includes identifying and creating the metadata for objects in the photo.
By the same measure, the company seeks to help photographers attract more clients by essentially operating as a customer relationship management service for them. The platform helps manage their jobs, while also offering workshops and meetups to help build their skills and professional networks.
Rebaud said the latest round will help Meero expand all of these products and services, while also pushing more deeply into the U.S. market. The company has about 600 employees, including 400 it hired in just the past six months, with a target of 1,200 by the end of this year.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
