Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Nokia acquires Gainspeed, a U.S. startup specializing in improving cable network capacity Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Nokia's offices in Espoo, Finland, July 28, 2015.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Nokia has announced that it will acquire Gainspeed , a U.S. startup that’s setting out to “redefine” how cable networks are built. Terms of the deal were not disclosed.
Founded in 2012 out of Sunnydale, California, Gainspeed specializes in Distributed Access Architecture (DAA) services for the cable industry. This comes as the industry responds to the growing need for more network capacity brought on by the rise of bandwidth-intensive media such as IP video.
Since offloading its Here mapping unit and shifting its mobile phone division to Microsoft , Nokia has consisted of two core divisions — Nokia Networks, a broadband network infrastructure business, and Nokia Technologies, a wing that aims to keep the brand alive in the consumer realm. This includes its virtual reality (VR) Ozo camera, its recent acquisition of digital health startup Withings, as well as its imminent return to mobile phones through a range of brand and licensing arrangements.
With this aquisition, Nokia has given its network technology arm a major boost, as Gainspeed is considered one of the leaders in DAA. This deal adds to Nokia’s other recent acquisition — it bought France’s Alcatel-Lucent for more than $16 billion last year to build the “next-generation network technology and services.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “Cable is one of the fastest-growing areas in our fixed networks business, and we are committed to delivering a complete solution set to cable operators,” said Federico Guillen, president of Nokia’s Fixed Networks business group, in a press release.
Once the Gainspeed acquisition is complete, expected in Q3 2016, the company will become part of Nokia’s Fixed Networks group.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
