Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages North, formerly Thalmic Labs, opens its first Focals smart glasses retail stores Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn North's new store for Focals Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
North , the Amazon-backed wearables company formerly known as Thalmic Labs, has opened its first smart glasses stores.
The outlets, which are located at 178 Court Street in the Cobble Hill area of Brooklyn and at 113 Ossington Ave in Toronto, are the only places where customers can presently finalize their North smart glasses order.
By way of a brief recap, North, under its former moniker, raised a large $120 million in funding back in 2016 from some big names, including Amazon’s Alexa Fund and Intel Capital. Last month, North announced its $999 Focals holographic smart glasses as the Canadian company rebranded from Thalmic Labs. That news followed shortly after it revealed it was ceasing sales of its first and hitherto only other product, the gesture- and motion-guided Myo armband.
Focal point Focals feature a built-in holographic display that shows information from your phone, such as messages, weather forecasts, and turn-by-turn directions, directly through the lenses. It also integrates with Alexa, so you can order an Uber, get calendar notifications, and request all manner of information by verbalizing your request.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Above: Focals by North Though you can reserve your pair of Focals online by paying $100, you will have to visit a brick-and-mortar outlet to complete your purchase given that they are customized to suit the head and eyes of each customer. From 11 a.m. EST today, those in Brooklyn or Toronto can do just that.
Above: A Focals sizing booth The store isn’t just for fittings, however — anyone can visit to experience first-hand what the glasses are like, with dedicated “immerse stations” set up to give a glimpse of life inside a holographic world.
Above: North “immerse stations” There are plans to launch further outlets too, and the company is actively inviting customers to register their interest in having a North showroom opened in their locale. To do so, you will need to pay a $100 deposit, and this will help the company gauge demand and prioritize which markets are next up.
“Brooklyn and Toronto are just the beginning for North,” the company told VentureBeat. “Those that place deposits will be first in line for Focals.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
