Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft launches Remote Assist and Layout mixed reality apps in limited preview Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Microsoft: Remote Assist mixed reality app Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Among its many announcements at Build 2018, Microsoft announced two new mixed reality apps, called Remote Assist and Layout, designed for “firstline” workers. Today, the company revealed that the two apps are now freely available for a “limited-time” preview download.
Available for HoloLens through the Microsoft Store, Remote Assist does pretty much what it says on the box. It’s designed to enable hands-free video calling, image sharing, and annotations — all through a head-mounted display. Wearers can share what they see with anyone else, allowing them to tap expertise from elsewhere without having to be there physically.
For example, those on the ground can circle an object to illustrate what they’re looking at or where a problem may lie, and they can engage in a video call through Microsoft Teams as they do so. Remote colleagues can also “draw” on the screen to highlight any issues or areas that need attention.
Above: Remote Assist Similarly, the Layout mixed reality app can be accessed now for free through the Microsoft Store, though you will need a HoloLens headset to test it out. Layout is all about helping design physical spaces, with users able to import 3D models, view designs as holograms, and collaborate in real-time with anyone else.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The industrial applications are clear: This technology allows companies to visualize rooms with specific pieces of equipment laid out virtually — seeing while walking around a space is far more effective than graphical representations on a 2D screen.
Above: Layout This latest launch comes shortly after Microsoft announced SharePoint Spaces , which allows company employees to create and view content in 3D mixed reality. It’s certainly one way for sales teams to liven up boring Excel data.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
