Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Researchers combine reinforcement learning and NLP to escape a Grue monster Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
AI researchers from Georgia Tech and Microsoft Research created AI that combines reinforcement learning and natural language processing (NLP) to outperform state-of-the-art question-answering AI in eight of nine text adventure games. Researchers say the model MC!Q*BERT is the first known learning agent to consistently get past a bottleneck where a player is eaten by a Grue monster in Zork, one of the first interactive computer games.
MC!Q*BERT is made in part from Q*BERT, a deep reinforcement learning agent that learns and builds a knowledge graph by asking questions about the world. Every observation made throughout the course of a game generates a series of questions that are then converted and added to the knowledge graph.
Q*BERT is based on KG-A2C, an approach to using reinforcement learning in NLP action spaces published earlier this year at ICLR by Georgia Tech PhD student Prithviraj Ammanabrolu.
For answering questions, Q*BERT uses a pretrained version of ALBERT , a variation of the BERT language model. The model is then fine-tuned using the SQuAD benchmark and a newly created data set of text adventure game question and answer pairs called Jericho-QA. Jericho-QA contains more than 200,000 question-answer pairings. The approach was detailed earlier this month in a paper published on preprint repository arXiv titled “How to Avoid Being Eaten by a Grue: Structured Exploration Strategies for Textual Worlds.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! “We present techniques for automatically detecting bottlenecks and efficiently learning policies that take advantage of the natural partitions in the state space,” the authors wrote in that paper. “We see text games as simplified analogues for systems capable of long-term dialogue with humans, such as in assistance with planning complex tasks, and also discrete planning domains such as logistics.” A major challenge for making AI that can succeed in text adventure games is overcoming bottlenecks, or instances where players are commonly trapped and eliminated. In Zork, for example, a common bottleneck occurs when players moving about without a light are eaten by a Grue monster. That means the AI must recognize and fulfill a certain series of actions to advance. Authors said many existing models fail to clear such bottlenecks. However, they assert, Q*BERT automatically detects bottlenecks, then creates policies to overcome the challenge. A dependency graph takes into account the items Q*BERT must collect to succeed and the locations in the game it must visit in order to advance.
All experiments took place within the Jericho simulator created by Microsoft. If an agent failed to collect a reward in the simulated environment, authors understood this to mean that it may be stuck because of a bottleneck. Once identified, the agent uses a method called modularity chaining to “backtrack to previously visited states” and overcome bottlenecks.
In other recent question-answering NLP news, last week Google AI together with partners from University of Washington and Princeton University announced the launch of the EfficientQA competition , a question-answering challenge for creating NLP capable of storing knowledge. Top-performing models will compete live against human trivia experts.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
