Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages The state of cloud-native development: Kubernetes is on the rise Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Let the OSS Enterprise newsletter guide your open source journey! Sign up here.
A new report shines a light on the latest trends in the cloud-native software development realm, with Kubernetes, in particular, showing signs that it’s only growing in popularity.
The State of Cloud Native Development report emanates from Slash Data , a company that surveys tens of thousands of developers annually to garner insights from myriad verticals across web, mobile, IoT, cloud, and more. The cloud-native segment is produced in partnership with the Cloud Native Computing Foundation ( CNCF ), a Linux Foundation project that focuses on advancing on open source projects such as Kubernetes.
Kubernetes is king The third edition of the report, which is based on answers from some 3,800 respondents from November 2020 to February 2021, revealed that 31% of all backend developers use Kubernetes today, which translates into some 5.6 million developers globally. This represents a 67% rise compared to the corresponding report from the previous year , though this includes an adjustment for a change in the question methodology.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Digging down into some specific Kubernetes numbers from the State of Cloud Native Development Report reveals that developers working on edge computing applications are the most active users of both containers and Kubernetes, at 76% and 63%, respectively. This is followed by quantum computing, haptic feedback, DNA computing and storage, as well as 5G.
Above: Kubernetes and container usage among backend developers Digging even further down into the data reveals that larger organizations — those with more than 500 employees — are particularly big on Kubernetes uptake. This means that “… Kubernetes has safely met the needs of the enterprise,” according to the report authors.
Above: Company size and Kubernetes usage Elsewhere in the report, figures show that while the overall number of cloud-native developers has increased in the past twelve months to 6.8 million, the proportion of backend developers working in cloud-native technologies dropped three percentage points from 44% to 41% — the authors posit that this is largely due to a big increase in the number of backend developers, as well as a drop in the proportion of developers involved in serverless architecture.
The rise of Kubernetes The rise of Kubernetes since Google open-sourced the project back in 2014 certainly points to a broader industry push toward containerized applications. Containers are software packages that “contain” all the required components for companies looking to their applications across different infrastructure, including public clouds or private datacenters — it goes some way toward solving the problem of getting the software to play nicely when shifted between environments. Some of the world’s biggest companies use Kubernetes to automate many of the manual processes involved in managing these containerized applications. For context, Kubernetes is among the world’s top open source projects — according to some estimations — while countless venture-backed startups have gone to market over the past year with products built specifically for the burgeoning Kubernetes ecosystem.
Moreover, many of the big technology firms have also bolstered their internal Kubernetes capabilities through acquisitions, including Cisco, which bought not one but two Kubernetes companies last year; Red Hat, which acquired Kubernetes security startup StackRox; and New Relic, which snapped up Kubernetes observability platform Pixie Labs.
In short, Kubernetes is clearly a big trend, and all signs suggest this will continue well into 2022 and beyond.
Read The State of Cloud Native Development report in full.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
