Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft launches Azure Managed Grafana service in preview Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Dashboards in Azure Managed Grafana Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Let the OSS Enterprise newsletter guide your open source journey! Sign up here.
Microsoft has announced that its Azure Managed Grafana service is now available in preview, some five months after first revealing plans for the offering in direct partnership with Grafana Labs.
Grafana , for the uninitiated, is an open source platform that enables some of the world’s biggest companies to unify, query, and visualize disparate telemetry data in a single dashboard. Grafana Labs, the open source project’s core maintainer and developer, offers several enterprise and “hosted” cloud services, support and features on top of Grafana.
Up until now, Microsoft Azure customers wishing to deploy Grafana would generally use the open-source product, which is a resource-intensive endeavor given that companies were responsible for managing everything themselves. While there was also Grafana Labs’ own fully-managed cloud service available via the Azure Marketplace , the new Azure Managed Grafana service includes native integrations with Microsoft’s various cloud services, such as Azure Monitor , and ships with prebuilt dashboards for Azure services.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Today’s launch follows Amazon’s Managed Service for AWS, which hit general availability last September after nine months in preview. Judging by that launch timeline, we can perhaps expect the native Azure incarnation to officially launch by early 2023.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
