Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft announces Azure Quantum, a cloud quantum computing service Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Microsoft Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Microsoft today shared plans to release an open cloud quantum computing service in private preview.
Microsoft open-sourced its Quantum Development Kit and Q# compilers and simulators for developers this summer. Partnerships with quantum hardware providers Honeywell, IonQ, or QCI will enable developers to use existing Microsoft products — like Visual Studio or the Quantum Development Kit — along with quantum computers.
The news follows recent breakthroughs in quantum computing from IBM Research and Google, who announced on October 23 that it achieved quantum supremacy with the 54-qubit Sycamore processor.
Quantum computing is based on quantum physics. Quantum computers run on quantum bits or qubits, and when qubits are maintained in a cold state they can scale high-performance computation in a way that’s hard to achieve today with traditional supercomputers.
IonQ uses an approach to quantum computing that focuses on trapping ions.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “IonQ brings a unique approach to quantum computing, with tremendous potential,” Microsoft quantum systems general manager Krysta Svore said in a statement shared with VentureBeat. “This partnership brings world-class quantum computing capabilities to Azure Quantum, and we’re excited to continue working together to realize the full benefits of quantum computers.” Companies like Rigetti and D-Wave Systems, maker of quantum computers for Google and NASA , also offer quantum computing in the cloud. And IBM’s 53-qubit computer will be available in the cloud.
Microsoft plans to launch Azure Quantum in the coming months, the company said in a news release today ahead of the start of its Ignite conference in Orlando, Florida. Also announced today: a meeting scheduler and voice email briefings from AI assistant Cortana and upgrades for Windows 10, Microsoft 365, and other Microsoft products and services.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
