Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Landlord Tech Watch project maps where landlords may be using tech to spy on tenants Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn People walk past a CCTV camera in Pancras Square near Kings Cross Station on August 16, 2019 in London, England.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The AI Now Institute, People Power Media, and the Anti-Eviction Mapping Project today launched Landlord Tech Watch , a crowdsourced map examining where surveillance and AI technologies are being used by landlords to potentially disempower tenants and community members. The site invites tenants to self-report the types of tech being installed in their residences and neighborhoods and aims to help educate people about the widespread use and potential harms of these technologies.
There’s currently scant legislation governing the collection and use of data in the context of real estate. Owners and landlords typically purchase and install tech products and platforms without notifying tenants in advance or discussing potential harms with them — and sometimes without ever letting them know.
In New York City, for example, rent-stabilized tenants at the Atlantic Plaza Towers in Brownsville were subjected to a facial recognition security system from a third-party vendor. Elsewhere in the city, a tenant in Hell’s Kitchen sued his landlord on the grounds that a keyless system was too complicated and he feared his movements would be tracked through the technology.
Residents and local elected officials have been quick to rail against these types of systems. Last October, the New York City Council proposed regulation that would force landlords to provide tenants with traditional metal keys for entering their buildings and apartments. The tenant in Hell’s Kitchen secured the right to physical keys for himself and his neighbors in May, after suing his landlord.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Landlord Tech Watch aims to offer tenants and researchers a better sense of the scope and scale of technology currently in use — like cameras, payment platforms, and screening tools. The site includes examples of different types of tech and lists specific harms associated with each type, along with a deployment map that indicates where such tech is being used and a survey that encourages people to share their experience with the installation and use of such technology.
Residents at 406 West 129th Street in Manhattan have already used Landlord Tech Watch to report that intercoms from GateGuard have been installed at buildings without their permission. (CNET recently reported that GateGuard has been pitching its technology to landlords in New York as a way to sidestep rent-control regulations.) At 61 Wyckoff Ave in Brooklyn, a tenant claims the landlord recently replaced traditional buzzers with camera-equipped electronic buzzers.
“Facial and movement recognition cameras made by the Israeli-based FST21 [have been installed in our building],” a resident of New York’s 10 Monroe Street wrote. “This came after Hurricane Sandy inflicted damage on the building. The landlord then installed this without our consent … We don’t know what happens with the data being collected about us. It also doesn’t work well, and we all have to do humiliating dances to be recognized by it.” The Landlord Tech Watch website notes that tech can be used to perform potentially prejudicial background, income, and credit checks on prospective tenants. While there’s no comprehensive registry of tenant screening companies, there are estimated to be over 2,000 in the U.S. (Last year, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development began circulating rules that would make it harder for tenants to sue landlords when algorithms disproportionately deny housing to people of color.) Virtual property management platforms might also prevent tenants from communicating with their actual landlords or property managers, resulting in neglect. And flawed or biased AI security systems could target and potentially endanger tenants.
Consider facial recognition technology, which countless studies have shown to be susceptible to bias.
A study last fall by University of Colorado, Boulder researchers showed that AI from Amazon, Clarifai, Microsoft, and others maintained accuracy rates above 95% for cisgender men and women but misidentified trans men as women 38% of the time. Separate benchmarks of major vendors’ systems by the Gender Shades project and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) suggest that facial recognition technology exhibits racial and gender bias and facial recognition programs can be wildly inaccurate, misclassifying people upwards of 96% of the time.
 Installing facial recognition technology as part of a screening or entry system could potentially put individuals at risk of being misidentified by police or other authorities.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
