Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Community Building smart cities starts with the right geospatial data Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
As more and more people live in cities and towns, the implementation of smart cities has become paramount to promoting sustainable development, addressing growing urbanization challenges and improving overall quality of life. But what is a smart city? And how do they work? A smart city is a technologically modern urban area that uses (primarily) information and communication technologies to develop and deploy sustainable practices that address various urbanization challenges. For example, smart cities can help communities streamline trash collection, minimize traffic and improve air quality. By collecting and analyzing various data points, a city’s infrastructure can be optimized.
In fact, strides have already been made toward this becoming a reality. Driverless cars burn less gas or use less battery power, resulting in less air pollution and companies like Waymo, Zoox and Cruise are already offering these types of vehicles in select cities.
So how do we continue the forward progress and employ even more on-the-ground technologies to power smart cities? The key is the right geospatial data.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Geospatial data – the what and the why Geospatial data is information that describes objects, events and other features with a location on or near the surface of the earth. In relation to cities and urban planning, this data can look like pedestrian movement, traffic patterns and construction work. The key here is that this data is dynamic — from the various sensors, satellites and other collection methods, we’re able to accumulate real-time information which helps autonomous technologies be as efficient and accurate as possible while also enabling data analysts to spot trends that might not otherwise be seen.
From feature identification and image classification to object tracking and LiDAR annotation, geospatial data powers the deployed technology based on geographically referenced information and provides a detailed map of the environment in which the technology is operating. For this map to be as accurate as possible, it needs to reflect all changes that happen to the area it’s representing.
By collecting real-time inputs from various sensors, dynamic geospatial data can be used to power autonomous tech and smart city projects. We’ll be able to know and predict when there’s a spike in pedestrian traffic, the best cadence for trash collection, the ebbs and flows of automotive congestion, the impact of specific or random events on city operations and much more.
Beyond data collection While the collection of data is important, there are two additional considerations that serve to improve smart cities’ operations — data sharing and robust annotation.
The robust annotation of data is a key piece to ensuring our autonomous technologies and systems work like they’re supposed to. Properly addressing edge cases and anomalous scenarios helps the technology make the correct decisions and function properly, even in new or uncommon situations.
For example, what happens when there is a sporting event and there’s more pedestrian traffic than normal? In a situation like this, there is likely to be more jay-walking, crosswalk congestion and automotive traffic. There may also be a heightened need for public transportation.
In order to ensure the technologies and systems not only function correctly during these types of scenarios, but adjust their operations to meet current needs, they need to be prepared for them. Building models to identify edge cases and represent anomalous situations is key to properly annotating and labeling data. Unfortunately, we can’t possibly know every single edge case or anomalous situation the technology will run into, which is why it’s also important to share data.
The more sensors providing data, the more data points collected, the more edge cases tested and anomalous situations prepared for — the better our autonomous technologies will work. Put simply, the more our machines can learn about the world in which they operate, the better they operate. That’s why I believe it’s so important for companies employing autonomous technologies to share their data. Think of it this way — it’s hard to have a complete picture when you’re only working with a portion of the puzzle.
If a city is the full picture, then the data collected serve as the puzzle pieces. If these companies share their data both with each other and with their local governments, it could allow our cities to reach a whole new level of smart — becoming more efficient and more effective. Local government entities are a key piece of the equation, and must share the responsibility for achieving this vision because they often have insight into planned roadway changes, scheduled construction and other key pieces of information that can affect how autonomous technology functions.
Smart cities: Where we go from here Smart cities aren’t quite a reality just yet, but we’re closer than we’ve ever been. It’s important to recognize that we’re still in the early stages, having taken only the first steps toward autonomous technologies being applied to the field. Standardized protocols and regulations have yet to be established, but will be a critical part of the process if we want widespread adoption.
However, big steps are still being taken. China has developed smart roads that talk to driverless cars and Michigan is developing a 40-mile corridor for CAVs.
 We’ve already started adopting the type of technology necessary to power smart cities. From here, it’s up to us to provide the data needed to fully power accurate and effective technology that will improve our infrastructure, efficiency and quality of life.
Jeff Mills is the chief revenue officer at iMerit.
DataDecisionMakers Welcome to the VentureBeat community! DataDecisionMakers is where experts, including the technical people doing data work, can share data-related insights and innovation.
If you want to read about cutting-edge ideas and up-to-date information, best practices, and the future of data and data tech, join us at DataDecisionMakers.
You might even consider contributing an article of your own! Read More From DataDecisionMakers The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! DataDecisionMakers Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
