Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Asperitas and Villa-Tech partner on network digital twin Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Cloud consultancy Asperitas and SDN vendor Villa-Tech have partnered to create a network digital twin for large and midsize enterprises. The fully managed service, which is available now, reduces a company’s risk and increases its pace of change by creating a virtualized clone of an on-premises network and providing a platform to simulate and implement changes.
The companies have had a partnership since 2017, and have set up, deployed and managed networks for numerous Fortune 1000 companies. The new service will provide enterprises a holistic view of their existing infrastructure with guidance on the impact of different choices and strategies.
This is part of a larger trend around using digital twins to simulate different aspects of networks, such as Nvidia’s efforts to simulate data centers ; Digital Twin Sim’s and Ericsson’s efforts to simulate different aspects of 5G networks; and Scalable Networks Technologies work to model power grid networks.
A new take on the network Scott Wheeler, managing partner and practice lead at Asperitas, told VentureBeat, “A network digital twin is a fully managed mirrored replica of an organization’s on-premises network,” Scott Wheeler, managing partner and practice lead at Asperitas, told VentureBeat.
Since it is a working live mirror copy of the production environment, changes to the environment can be implemented and tested without impact on the existing production environment. It includes replicas of all production network hardware and software with a simulation that allows the digital twin to scale to virtually any use case or testing requirements.
As part of the new offering, Asperitas and Villa-Tech will build a replica of an organization’s on-premises network infrastructure and virtualize each component, allowing organizations to test their network in a real-world setting. Companies can create multiple twins to explore different use cases or support use cases such as testing different networking scenarios, testing performance impacts and identifying security vulnerabilities. Companies will also be able to use the network digital twin to assess the performance of their own private infrastructure, onramps to the cloud, and connectivity to third-party services and SaaS apps.
“The value is in the ability for customers to develop, change, and update at a much more rapid pace while knowing exactly how their production network will behave upon implementation,” Wheeler said. “Therefore, risks are removed ahead of network deployment, greatly reducing, if not eliminating, post-implementation issues.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
