Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Qualcomm Smart Cities partner weaves IoT lighting into large-scale digital twins Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
IoT product provider Zyter has partnered with Juganu , a technology company providing solutions for the professional lighting market, to weave advanced lighting tech into smart cities.
Zyter’s IoT platform breaks down information by integrating and consolidating data from devices and applications, weaving IoT infrastructure into large-scale smart city digital twins for buildings, stadiums, campuses, and cities. It allows municipalities to get visibility across a network of connected devices and sensors supported by analytics. Juganu uses light fixtures as the base for a self-orchestrated wireless grid that provides tech support for smart cities, which makes it a natural choice for this digital twin project.
“The partnership with Juganu will help us bring robust smart lighting, AI-enabled security, communication, and other capabilities to any of these verticals,” Zyter founder and CEO Sanjay Govil told VentureBeat.
Teaming up for smart city digital twins The partnership will integrate Zyter’s core platform and Juganu’s lighting tech with tools and software from more than 400 Qualcomm Smart Cities Accelerator Program partners.
 Zyter is a core partner in Qualcomm’s program.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Juganu’s The Foam platform integrates with cameras, pedestrian counters, and edge computers to customize lighting and characterize foot traffic with privacy safeguards. Its latest lighting, which the company claims kills the COVID-19 virus , has attracted fresh funding from Comcast and NCR.
Previous Zyter partnerships have focused on construction safety (Everguard), clinical data management (TruCare), and remote patient monitoring (Ceiba). Its platform aims to unify app development across devices in verticals such as health care , education, logistics, retail, travel, and construction.
This partnership could also take advantage of Zyter’s work in creating lidar-based digital twins, which are virtual representations of an object or system that span its lifecycle, are updated with real-time data, and use simulation, machine learning, and reasoning to aid decision-making. Digital twins make it easier to interface with and control IoT devices in a certain space. For example, a city manager can now view and manage all the lights in both indoor and outdoor spaces. A manager can also explore areas of the city by pulling up camera surveillance feeds or reviewing all recorded incidents in an area while exploring the digital twin of a city or buildings and spaces in a city.
In the long run, Zyter’s CEO Govil believes there are opportunities to collaborate with other companies working on APIs for physical infrastructures, like the data infrastructure platform Mapped , to help with standardization and interoperability. Mapped simplifies access to physical building assets through a standard vocabulary while supporting a secured API perimeter.
“We feel that Mapped and Zyter are trying to solve similar problems, although in slightly different ways,” Govil said.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
