Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Gartner picks emerging technologies that can drive differentiation for enterprises Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Gartner has released its latest Hype Cycle for emerging technologies, giving a glimpse at 25 embryonic and early-stage technological advances that can help enterprises differentiate and drive growth in the coming years.
Modern organizations are racing to innovate to stay ahead of the competition and drive technology-enabled business transformation. They are watching market trends, but with hundreds of advances happening worldwide and the surrounding publicity, it becomes difficult to separate hype from reality.
This is where Gartner’s Hype Cycle comes in. The company aims to cut through the noise to identify the most potent technologies. It drills into where each technology trend stand in terms of maturity, giving chief experience officers a way to make the right investment decision according to their business needs.
Hype Cycle for emerging technologies, 2022 This year’s Hype Cycle for emerging technologies focuses on systems and applied frameworks that evolve/expand immersive experiences, accelerate artificial intelligence (AI) automation and optimize solution delivery.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! For immersive experiences, which offer new ways of engagement with dynamic virtual representations, the technologies of interest are decentralized identity, digital humans, digital twin of the customer, internal talent marketplaces, metaverse , nonfungible tokens (NFTs), super apps and Web3.
Most of these, Gartner notes, promise transformational benefits and are likely to see mainstream adoption in two to ten years. Only metaverse and digital humans are expected to take more than a decade to hit the plateau of productivity.
On the AI front , the emerging technologies with potential are autonomic systems, causal AI, foundation models, generative design AI and machine learning code generation. They all promise to expand the adoption of AI with more accurate predictions as well as faster time to expected benefits. According to Gartner, these technologies will mostly be transformational for businesses and see maturity in five to ten years.
Finally, to accelerate and optimize product, service and solution delivery, Gartner has identified technologies that provide feedback and insight. This includes augmented finops, cloud data ecosystems, cloud sustainability, computational storage, cybersecurity mesh architecture, data observability , dynamic risk governance, industry cloud platforms, minimum viable architecture, observability-driven development, open telemetry and platform engineering. Most of these are also expected to mature within two to 10 years.
Advantages are yet to be seen While all these technologies are disruptive by nature, it is important that enterprises first understand the short-term and long-term opportunities they present for their business and industry and then make an investment. All these technologies, Gartner emphasized, are currently at an embryonic or early stage. The competitive advantages they could provide are not yet understood or proven. Without proper assessment and exploration of use cases, one could easily end up with the wrong solution.
“All technologies on this Hype Cycle are at an early stage, but some are nascent and great uncertainty exists about how they will evolve. Such technologies present greater risks for deployment, but potentially greater benefits for early adopters who can assess and exploit them in line with their organization’s ability to handle unproven technologies,” Gary Olliffe , distinguished VP analyst at Gartner, noted.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
