Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Toyota subsidiary acquires Lyft self-driving division for $550M Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A Lyft driver wears a mask during the coronavirus outbreak, April 1, 2020.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Woven Planet, a newly established Toyota subsidiary, today announced plans to acquire Lyft’s Level 5 self-driving unit in a deal worth $550 million. The companies say the purchase will bring together roughly 1,200 scientists and software engineers from Level 5; Woven Planet; and Toyota Research Institute, which had researchers already working with Woven Planet.
The pandemic and its effects, including testing delays, have resulted in consolidation, tabled or canceled launches, and shakeups across the autonomous transportation industry. Ford pushed the unveiling of its self-driving service from 2021 to 2022. Former Waymo CEO John Krafcik told the New York Times the pandemic delayed work by at least two months. And Amazon acquired driverless car startup Zoox for $1.3 billion. According to Boston Consulting Group managing director Brian Collie, broad commercialization of AVs won’t happen before 2025 or 2026 — at least three years later than originally anticipated.
Once the acquisition is complete, Woven Planet says it will have an expanded footprint beyond its Tokyo headquarters, with offices and engineering teams in Palo Alto, California and London. In addition to the purchase of Level 5, Woven Planet has signed commercial agreements with Lyft to use the latter’s system and fleet data to support the commercialization of the driverless technology Woven Planet intends to develop.
Lyft will receive approximately $550 million in cash, with $200 million paid up front and $350 million in payments over a five-year period. The transaction is expected to close in the third quarter of 2021.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “Today’s announcement launches Lyft into the next phase of an incredible journey to bring our mission to life,” Lyft CEO Logan Green said in a press release. “Lyft has spent nine years building a transportation network that is uniquely capable of scaling autonomous vehicles. This deal brings together the vision, talent, resources, and commitment to advance clean, autonomous mobility on a global scale.” Level 5: a brief history Lyft’s Level 5 R&D division was founded in July 2017 and has developed novel 3D segmentation frameworks, methods of evaluating energy efficiency in vehicles, and techniques for tracking vehicle movement using crowdsourced maps, among other things. In 2019, Lyft announced the opening of a new road test site in Palo Alto, California, near its Level 5 division’s headquarters. That development came after a year in which Lyft expanded access to its employee self-driving service in Palo Alto with human safety drivers on board in a limited area.
In November 2019, Lyft said its autonomous cars were driving 4 times more miles on a quarterly basis than they were six months before and that it has about 400 employees dedicated to development globally (up from 300). In May 2020, the company partnered with Google parent company Alphabet’s Waymo to enable customers to hail driverless Waymo cars from the Lyft app in Phoenix. And Lyft has an ongoing collaboration with the self-driving Hyundai-Aptiv joint venture known as Motional, which makes a small fleet of autonomous vehicles available to Lyft customers in Las Vegas.
Lyft recently revealed it has begun leveraging data from its ride-hailing network to improve the performance of its autonomous vehicle systems. A subset of drivers’ cars are equipped with inexpensive camera sensors, enabling them to capture challenging scenarios while helping solve problems like generating 3D maps and improving simulation tests.
Post-acquisition, Lyft says its Open Platform team, which focuses on the deployment of third-party self-driving technology on the Lyft network, will become the new Lyft Autonomous team. Lyft expects the restructuring to remove $100 million in operating expenses from its books, primarily from reduced R&D spend.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
