Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages HTC launches first Ready Player One VR apps Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Ready Player One Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
In just under one year’s time, HTC’s VR partnership with Steven Spielberg’s movie Ready Player One has gone from promise to (virtual) reality. HTC announced today that the first three Ready Player One VR apps have launched in its Viveport store for Vive headsets.
Independently developed by three studios, the first three apps are located within the beta version of Oasis, named for the upcoming film’s VR hub.
Above: Battle for the Oasis VR Steel Wool Studios’ Battle for the Oasis takes place on the planet Doom, where you fight off waves of IOI Sixers.
Directive Games’ Gauntlet gives you a bow and arrow to fight off monsters in a dungeon, conceptually evoking the classic Atari arcade game.
Drifter Entertainment’s Rise of the Gunters is another action game placing you in a fight against the IOI Sixers.
Above: TheWaveVR visualized Ready Player One with music in VR.
Based upon a successful 2011 book by Ernest Cline , Ready Player One is the story of a young man’s quest to unlock the mysteries of a near-future VR world called Oasis, heavily focused on classic video games, movies, and popular culture.
The film is expected to define virtual reality for a generation of people who have seen VR headsets but not yet used them. Not surprisingly, it has inspired quite a few video game and VR collaborations, including HTC’s partnership, a Roblox reproduction of the film’s quest, and TheWaveVR’s Distracted Globe social VR experience for the South by Southwest festival.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! At least five other HTC Vive titles, including Arcade Saga Smash, are expected to be available by the film’s March 29 release date.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
