Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Valtix raises $14 million for cloud-native security products Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Valtix team.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
There’s no two ways about it: The state of cloud services security is alarming. About 24% of organizations have hosts missing high-severity patches in the public cloud, according to compliance risk firm RedLock, and a whopping 49% of databases aren’t encrypted. Perhaps more worrisome, Gartner anticipates that through 2022, at least 95% of cloud security failures are predicted to be the fault of an unwitting customer.
Those concerns and countless others motivated Vishal Jain, Praveen Patnala, and Vijay Chander to found Valtix last March, a startup developing network security solutions for enterprise cloud environments. It’s raised $14 million in series A funding from Trinity Ventures, Vertex Ventures, and Wing Venture Capital, which it today revealed alongside the launch of its cloud-native product suite.
“As today’s enterprises move to the cloud and face multi-cloud sprawl, they have a difficult security decision to make — being agile and naked or rigid and secure,” said Jain, who serves as CEO. “Organizations need a solution that provides the enterprise network security they need to move at the ‘speed of the cloud.’ We founded Valtix to offer a third choice — a set of security services built specifically for the cloud that can unify multi-cloud security for greater visibility, agility, and performance.” Valtix, which derives its name from a portmanteau of vanadium, aluminum, and titanium (three elements known for their strength and elasticity), offers a range of services — Cloud Controller and Cloud Firewall — that’ll soon run and enforce app-level policies in Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud Platform instances. They’re both capable of automatically discovering apps and scaling elastically across clouds, with automatic adaptation and pay-as-you-go pricing. And they’re high-performance, with high-throughput and low-latency routines, rules, and protections that trigger in response to app deployments and changes.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Cloud Firewall furthermore supports built-in auto scale, app-aware security policy, and a single-pass pipeline for the cryptographic protocol TLS, as well as intrusion prevention systems and web app firewalls for HTTP. Its management model enables admins to apply a single policy across clouds that “follow” apps around the network, and it operates on a number of cloud instance types from “basic” to “most advanced,” according to Valtix.
“We are inspired by Valtix’s audacious vision of being the first cloud native network security platform,” said Trinity Ventures general partner Karan Mehandru. “In an industry that has been riddled with incremental products, we are honored to partner with Valtix on their mission to bring a truly transformative and holistic solution to market. Driven by deep and authentic market understanding, the Valtix team is uniquely positioned to give customers the security and protection they deserve as they move to the cloud.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
