Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Boston bans facial recognition due to concern about racial bias Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Boston Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
The Boston City Council today voted unanimously to ban facial recognition, making Boston the largest city in the country to ban the technology since San Francisco passed the first citywide ban in May 2019.
Nearby Somerville, Massachusetts passed a facial recognition ban roughly a year ago as well.
The vote in Boston comes the same day that news emerged about Robert Williams, a Black man living in Detroit, who was arrested for first degree retail fraud last summer after being falsely identified by facial recognition.
 Advocates in favor of a ban say Williams’ case is the first known instance of false arrest due to misidentification by facial recognition.
Members of the Boston City Council cited bias toward people with dark skin and the Williams arrest as reasons for the ban.
Joy Buolamwini from MIT Media Lab in Boston testified in favor of a citywide ban earlier this month.
 Buolamwini is the lead author of Gender Shades, an audit of major facial recognition providers that found the tech works best on White men and worst on women with dark skin.
A study by the Department of Commerce’s National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) also found high rates of misidentification for Asian Americans and African Americans, as well as people who do not conform to a single gender role.
Boston’s ban comes as lawmakers are facing increased pressure to reduce surveillance tactics and defund police agencies.
Rep. Jimmy Gomez (D-CA) told VentureBeat recently that facial recognition regulation is on the way from Congress with a moratorium on use by federal law enforcement.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Privacy advocates are sometimes split on whether a temporary stay or moratorium on facial recognition use will suffice or if an outright ban is necessary. People in favor of bans often argue that even if AI practitioners remedy racial performance disparities, it’s still technology that will disproportionately impact people of color and in particular Black communities.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
