Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon shareholders decline to halt sale of facial recognition systems to governments Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Amazon on Wednesday said shareholders rejected proposals to curb and audit its facial recognition service, just as members of Congress indicated there was bipartisan support to one day regulate the technology.
In the past year Amazon has found itself at the center of a growing debate over the use of facial recognition by governments, with critics warning of false matches and arrests and proponents arguing it keeps the public safe.
Law enforcement in Oregon and Florida have used Amazon’s face and image ID service, known as Rekognition.
With support from civil liberties groups, two non-binding proposals on facial recognition made it to the ballot ahead of Amazon’s shareholder meeting on Wednesday. Amazon had tried to stop the votes but was effectively overruled by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
The first proposal would have made the company stop offering facial recognition to governments unless its board determined sales did not violate civil liberties. A second would have requested a study by September of the extent to which Amazon’s service harmed rights and privacy.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Behind the shareholder concern was research that showed Amazon’s technology struggled more than its peers’ to identify the gender of individuals with darker skin, prompting fears that a faulty technology would put innocent people behind bars.
Amazon has defended its work and said all users must follow the law. It also added a web portal for people to report any abuse of the service here.
The proposals faced an uphill battle. Amazon’s board recommended against them, and Jeff Bezos, the company’s chief executive and founder, controls 16% of its stock and voting rights.
Still, critics of the technology saw potential benefits from the proposals.
“This shareholder intervention should serve as a wake-up call for the company to reckon with the real harms of face surveillance and to change course,” said Shankar Narayan of the American Civil Liberties Union of Washington state.
A key Congressional committee also met on Wednesday in Washington, D.C., to discuss the impact of facial recognition on civil rights. Responding to the Amazon vote, Democratic U.S. Representative Jimmy Gomez of California said, “That just means that it’s more important that Congress acts.” Republican members of the committee expressed concern about U.S. citizens having their privacy violated and being caught up in law enforcement databases without having done anything wrong. A second hearing on the topic is scheduled for June 4.
Mark Meadows, a Republican representing North Carolina, said it was time to work on legislation regarding the technology.
“You’ve now hit the sweet spot that brings progressives and conservatives together,” he said.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
