Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts DeepMind’s new AI just beat top human pro-gamers at Starcraft II for the first time By Will Knight archive page DeepMind, a subsidiary of Alphabet that’s focused on cracking artificial intelligence, has announced a new landmark in that grand quest: beating humans at galactic warfare.
The news: AlphaStar , the company’s latest learning algorithm, defeated professional Starcraft II players for the first time, scoring 10 wins and one loss against the pros, called TLO and MaNa. The popular real-time strategy game involves players competing as one of three races to building structures and engaging in combat across a sprawling battlefield.
Practice, practice: AlphaStar learned to play within an environment called the AlphaStar League. A large neural network first observed replays of expert human games. It was then pitted against versions of itself, using a machine-learning technique called reinforcement learning to improve over time. Importantly, the program’s speed of action, and its view of the battlefield, were limited so that it didn’t have an unfair edge over humans.
Who gives a Zerg? AlphaStar had to display new kinds of intelligence in order to master the game. The techniques developed for playing the game could potentially prove useful in many practical situations where complex strategy is required: think trading or even military planning.
Higher score: Starcraft II is not only extremely complex. It is also a game of “imperfect information,” meaning players cannot always see what their opponents are up to. There is also no single best strategy for playing. And it takes time for the results of a player’s actions to become clear, making it harder for an algorithm to learn through experience. DeepMind’s team used a very specialized neural network architecture to address these issues.
Game theory: DeepMind is most famous for developing the software that learned to beat the world’s best Go and chess players. But before that, the company developed several algorithms that learned to play simple Atari games. Playing video games is a neat way to measure progress in artificial intelligence, and to compare computers with humans. It is, however, also a very narrow test—AlphaStar, like its predecessors, can only do one task, albeit incredibly well.
hide by Will Knight Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 Zeyi Yang How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Deep Dive Artificial intelligence This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI The tool, called Nightshade, messes up training data in ways that could cause serious damage to image-generating AI models.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 With just a few minutes of sample video and $1,000, brands never have to stop selling their products.
By Zeyi Yang archive page Driving companywide efficiencies with AI Advanced AI and ML capabilities revolutionize how administrative and operations tasks are done.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page Rogue superintelligence and merging with machines: Inside the mind of OpenAI’s chief scientist An exclusive conversation with Ilya Sutskever on his fears for the future of AI and why they’ve made him change the focus of his life’s work.
By Will Douglas Heaven archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
