Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Baidu unveils Kunlun AI chip for edge and cloud computing Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Kunlun AI chip was debuted in at the Baidu Create AI developer conference in Beijing Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Baidu today unveiled a new chip for AI, joining the ranks of Google , Nvidia , Intel , and many other tech companies making processors especially for artificial intelligence.
Kunlun is made to handle AI models for edge computing on devices and in the cloud via datacenters. The Kunlun 818-300 model will be used for training AI, and the 818-100 for inference.
Baidu began working with field-programmable gate array (FPGA) chips especially designed for deep learning in 2011, the company said. Kunlun is about 30 times faster than the first FPGA chip from Baidu and is able to achieve 260 tera-operations per second (TOPS) and 512 GB/second memory bandwidth, a company spokesperson told VentureBeat in an email. No date has been set for release of the chip.
FPGA chips are also at the center of Microsoft’s Project Brainwave for fast AI processing in the cloud.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “With the rapid emergence of AI applications, dramatically increasing requirements are being imposed on computational power. Traditional chips limit how much computing power is available and thus how far we can accelerate AI technologies,” the company said in a statement. “Baidu developed this chip, specifically designed for large-scale AI workloads, as an answer to this demand.” The announcement was made at the second annual Baidu Create AI developer conference in Beijing.
Also announced today: Baidu’s Apollo program will help power Apolong self-driving buses.
Apolong was developed with Chinese bus maker King Long and utilizes Baidu’s Apollo autonomous driving platform. The buses for commercial passengers will operate in Chinese cities like Beijing, Shenzhen, Pingtan, and Wuhan and in Tokyo in Japan. Roughly 100 Apolong buses have already been made, and they are scheduled to hit roads in early 2019.
Above: Apolong self-driving bus Baidu also announced an upgrade to its suite of AI services today, along with the release of Baidu Brain 3.0. The upgraded platform can supply simple drag-and-drop training of AI models, and it currently offers 110 AI services, ranging from computer vision to natural language processing to facial recognition software.
By comparison, at the last Baidu Create conference the Brain platform offered 60 AI services, a spokesperson said.
The Apollo autonomous driving platform, which has drawn support from more than 100 tech and transportation companies in the U.S. and China, will now partner with Intel’s Movidius.
Also announced at Baidu Create was Xeye, a camera powered by visual processing units from Movidius for retail customers.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
