Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon, Apple, Facebook, and Google CEOs to testify before antitrust panel on July 27 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Amazon and Blue Origin CEO Jeff Bezos at the Amazon re:Mars conference in Las Vegas Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
( Reuters ) — The CEOs of Amazon, Apple, Alphabet’s Google, and Facebook will appear before a U.S. House of Representatives panel on July 27, the committee said in a statement on Monday.
Amazon’s Jeff Bezos, Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg, Google’s Sundar Pichai and Apple’s Tim Cook will appear before the House Judiciary Antitrust Subcommittee as part of its probe into the companies, the statement said.
They will be allowed to appear virtually.
“As we have said from the start, their testimony is essential for us to complete this investigation,” Jerrold Nadler, the House judiciary panel chair, and David Cicilline, the House antitrust subcommittee chair, said in a statement.
Earlier this month, Reuters reported the big four tech platforms’ heads would testify before U.S. Congress.
 Lawmakers are expected to release a report on their antitrust investigation in the coming weeks.
The U.S. Justice Department is also probing the big four tech platforms.
 And Facebook and Amazon are facing inquiries by the Federal Trade Commission, while U.S. states attorneys general are looking at Facebook and Google.
( Reporting by Makini Brice, editing by Mohammad Zargham and Tom Brown.
) VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
