Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Beth Carter Culture Chess Grandmasters Take Lessons From ... a Windows Machine? Grandmaster Hikaru Nakamura of the United States (left) faces Arkadij Naiditsch of Germany during the sixth round of the 2012 World Chess Olympiad. The U.S. team, which enjoyed an upset win over Russia in the ninth round and placed fifth overall, got a little help from the computer geeks at Texas Tech University.
Photo: World Chess Olympiad Save this story Save Save this story Save When Hikaru Nakamura and Gata Kamsky faced Vladimir Kramnik and Alexander Grischuk in the ninth round of the 40th World Chess Olympiad in Istanbul, the seasoned grandmasters drew upon years of experience, hours of preparation and two computers thousands of miles away.
We can't tell you anything about the silicon assistance the two Russians got because, well, they're Russians and it's a secret. But the computer that helped Nakamura and Kamsky and the rest of the U.S. team score an incredible upset win over the Russians — and fifth place overall — sits in a nondescript building on the plains of Texas.
Players cannot, of course, use computers during a match, but they're invaluable in preparing ahead of time. Elite players often consult a database of more than 5 million games to study an opponent's style, analyze past games and plan their moves accordingly, much like a football team will review game film. The software the U.S. squad used to prepare for the Olympiad, which concluded earlier this month, is the Houdini Pro chess engine, and you can fire it up on any Windows machine.
The team used a pretty hefty Windows machine. But it was a Windows machine. Fifteen years ago, IBM needed a supercomputer to defeat world chess champion Gary Kasparov. But nowadays, you can push the boundaries of top chess with a run-of-the-mill computer server.
To prepare for the Olympics of chess, the U.S. team called upon the High Performance Computing Center at Texas Tech University, a school known as a chess powerhouse.
 Such is its stature that U.S. chess team member and grandmaster Alexander Onischuk is headed there to coach the school's team. So you can see why the school decided to lend some computational heft to the team's training regiment in the form of a Dell PowerEdge 1950 with two 3GHz Xeon E5450 quad-core processors and 16 gigabytes of memory.
A quad-core processor is a chip that can juggle four big tasks at the same time. In short, this Dell chess machine contains eight separate processing brains that can all be applied to the task at hand.
"It permitted them to look at specific positions more deeply," said Al Lawrence, head of the Texas Tech chess program and former executive director of the U.S. Chess Federation. "If you're preparing for someone you can sort and find your opponent's games and study them like a boxer might study a film of an upcoming opponent." Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight By "deeper," Lawrence — who says the Russians undoubtedly had their own computers, even if there's no word what it was — means just that. Running on those ordinary Intel chips, Houdini will examine a position, consider all of the variations and map out the next 15 to 20 moves within a few minutes. It must sift through a tremendous amount of data to do this. The Dell humming away at the HPCC could see the next 15 moves almost instantly and map out the next 40 to 50 within minutes.
When most people think of chess and computers, they probably think of Deep Blue, the IBM supercomputer that defeated Russian grand master Garry Kasparov in 1997. But the technology has advanced light years since then.
According to James Abbott, associate director of the computing center, Deep Blue was an 11.38 gigaflop computer, meaning it could handle about 11 billion operations a second. But an ordinary server with 16 processing cores do around 260 billion operations a second. The additional speed and processing power allows modern chess algorithms to more quickly and efficiently analyze possible moves. But, of course, the goal is to go further. More power, more speed, more depth.
"While only a single node with moderately old hardware was used this time, we are looking at using modern nodes with 16 to 32 cores and the possibility of using multiple nodes," Abbott said. "This would give them the ability to evaluate more scenarios and perform a deeper analysis." Lawrence said this was the first time the U.S. chess team had used a computer with such brawn, and he called it "a very successful experiment, especially given the remote nature of it." Lawrence has played with the HPCC's Houdini chess engine, and laughed that its speed and skill was wasted on a player of his skill.
"But it was a thrill to see it so quickly crunch these positions," he said.
Topics Chess data statistics Playbook Simon Hill Geek's Guide to the Galaxy Reece Rogers Megan Farokhmanesh Elana Levin Jason Parham Saniya Ahmed Kate Knibbs Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
