Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Klint Finley Business IBM Buying Open Source Specialist Red Hat for $34 Billion IBM CEO Ginni Rometty in Germany in June.
Krisztian Bocsi/Bloomberg/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save IBM just spent $34 billion to buy a software company that gives away its primary product for free.
IBM Sunday said it would acquire Red Hat, best known for its Red Hat Enterprise Linux operating system. Red Hat is an open source software company that gives away the source code for its core products. That means anyone can download them for free. And many do. Oracle even uses Red Hat’s source code for its own Oracle Linux product.
Spending billions to acquire an open source software company might seem strange. But companies pay Red Hat to support those products, to the tune of around $3 billion in revenue each year.
IBM has long been a big user of and contributor to Linux and other open source projects. Open source was once a fringe, idealistic movement in software, but it's now a core part of how big companies operate , from internet giants like Google and Facebook to Walmart and ExxonMobil. Sharing code with competitors allows companies to work together to solve common problems. Even Microsoft, which once openly mocked open source, has come around. Microsoft has released multiple open source projects and just closed a $7.5 billion acquisition of the code hosting and collaboration company GitHub.
Meanwhile, IBM has struggled in recent years to transform itself into a cloud computing company. A survey commissioned by cloud management company RightScale earlier this year put IBM as the fourth-most-widely-used cloud service, behind Amazon, Microsoft, and Google, and found the company growing slower than the top three. Its Watson-branded artificial intelligence services have experienced setbacks such as the decision by cancer center MD Anderson to walk away from a contract with IBM last year, big layoffs , and widespread criticism within the AI industry that Watson is simply overhyped.
Red Hat has had its own problems. Its shares fell 14 percent in one day in June after it issued a financial forecast that disappointed investors.
 Shares have fallen an additional 17 percent since then.
Red Hat isn't a major host of cloud services, but it is a major player in the building of cloud services. While Red Hat is best known for its operating system, it offers a growing range of other products that make it easy for companies to build cloud-like platforms in their own data centers or manage applications that run on multiple different cloud computing services. They include OpenShift, which which is based on increasingly popular technology known as " Linux containers.
" Red Hat could be a good fit for IBM's business. IBM has largely transformed from a hardware giant into a services-centric company, and has long partnered with Red Hat. The big question is whether the two companies will be a good cultural fit. IBM says Red Hat will operate as a standalone unit within its Hybrid Cloud organization, with Red Hat’s leadership staying intact.
So much genetic testing, so few people to explain it to you When tech knows you better than you know yourself These magical sunglasses block all the screens around you All you need to know about online conspiracy theories Our 25 favorite features from the past 25 years Looking for more? Sign up for our daily newsletter and never miss our latest and greatest stories Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Contributor X Topics IBM open source Will Knight Kari McMahon Will Knight Gregory Barber Paresh Dave Steven Levy Steven Levy Amanda Hoover Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
