Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple unveils Apple Arcade subscription gaming service Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Apple announced a premium game subscription, Apple Arcade, for its App Store.
 This bundles together paid iPhone and iPad games that consumers can play for a monthly fee. The service is coming this fall, with the company still needing to tell us how much it’s going to cost.
Players will get more than 100 games on the service, and it will be available in more than 150 countries.
“We want to make gaming even better,” said Apple CEO Tim Cook at the company’s press briefing today.
Subscriptions are popular in games these days. Sony offers its PlayStation Plus on the PS4 for $10 a month, and Sony also offers PlayStation Now cloud gaming on the PC and PS4 for $20 a month. Microsoft has its Xbox Live Gold service for $10 a month on the Xbox One and Xbox 360, and it also offers its Xbox Game Pass on the Xbox One for $10 a month.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! On the streaming front, Amazon Prime gives you access to Twitch Prime, which otherwise costs $13 a month on the PC and Mac. Utomik also offers $6 a month service for instantly accessible games. And EA is offering its EA Access service for $5 a month. EA also offers Origin Access for $5 a month.
Subscriptions are a good way to get reliable revenue at a time when free-to-play games carry so much risk. Google is likely to charge some kind of subscription fee for its Stadia cloud gaming platform, but Google has declined to comment on that so far.
Ann Thai, senior product manager for the App Store, said there are 1 billion people who have downloaded games from the store. There are 300,000 games available. Besides paid and free-to-play games, there will now be a new subscription category.
“Competing with free is hard,” Thai said. “With a single subscription, you will get access to more than 100 new games.” These games are exclusive to Apple Arcade. You can download and play any game from the app store.
You can play them on iPhone, iPad, Mac, and Apple TV. Every game will be playable offline, so you can play anywhere, regardless of your internet connection. All game features are included, with no ads and no additional purchases. Parents can manage kids’ game time with controls.
Apple Arcade games cannot collect any data about you without your consent. It will be curated by Apple’s own team of editors, and your family will be able to share it for no additional charge.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
