Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple discontinues Watch Series 4, drops Series 3 price to $199 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
New smartwatches weren’t the only thing Apple revealed at its press conference this morning. The Cupertino company also announced a price cut for the Apple Watch Series 3 , which previously started at $279. The Series 3 now starts at $199, and the Series 4 has been discontinued.
Here’s how the pricing breaks down: The Series 3 (GPS) with built-in GPS, optical heart rate sensor, and water resistance is $199 The Series 3 (GPS + Cellular) is $299 Apple Watch prices have been on a bit of a roller-coaster lately, what with Apple’s decision to kill the infamously luxe Apple Watch Edition.
 In September 2018, the company quietly increased the price on its new Apple Watch lineup by $70 compared with the previous generation models.
The Apple Watch Series 3, you might recall, was released in September 2017. It featured a faster processor, a dual-core S3 system-on-chip, Bluetooth 4.2 (compared with Bluetooth 4.0 on older models), a built-in altimeter for measuring flights of stairs climbed, and increased memory. It was the first Apple Watch available in a variant with LTE cellular connectivity, and the first on which Siri could speak thanks to its increased processing power.
The Apple Watch Series 4 was announced a year later like clockwork (no pun intended), and it featured larger displays with thinner bezels, rounded corners, and a redesigned ceramic back. An Apple-designed W3 wireless chip and improved haptic feedback were in tow, as was a new S4 64-bit dual-core processor capable of up to double the S3’s performance. But the arguable headliner (in addition to fall detection) was an FDA-cleared electrical heart sensor that worked by measuring the potential difference between the wearer’s wrist and a finger from their opposing hand.
According to analysts at Canalys, Apple shipped more than 12 million Apple Watches in 2015, constituting two-thirds of all smartwatch sales that year. That number seems quaint today — analysts at IDC project smartwatch shipments hit 124.9 million by the end of 2018, up 8.2% from the prior year. And MarketWatch pegs the market at $35.7 billion by 2024.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
