Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple announces A13 Bionic chip for iPhone 11 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Apple unvieled its next-gen A13 Bionic processor at an event on the Apple campus today where it unveiled its fall lineup of iPhones.
The new combo CPU/GPU processor for the iPhone 11 will make the new models run a lot faster and prettier than the old ones. It is the latest A-series processor.
Apple’s chip engineers design the chips, and they are being made by manufacturing partner TSMC, the biggest contract chip manufacturer. TSMC is making the chips with its 7-nanometer manufacturing process. That means that the width between the circuits is just 7 billionths of a meter.
Above: A13 has three main processing engines.
“The A13 is the fastest CPU ever in a smartphone,” said Kaiann Drance, Apple senior director of iPhone marketing, onstage at the event.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The chip has 8.5 billion transistors. Apple’s previous A12 processor had 6.9 billion transistors, which was about 60% more than the A11’s 4.3 billion transistors.
Apple showed off what the new chip can do with graphics performance by bringing out a game from Giant Interactive. Yang Yang of Giant showed Pascal’s Wager.
The chip has improved machine learning, with a neural engine alongside the CPU (central processing unit) and GPU (graphics processing unit). It has machine learning accelerators that can process six times faster than the previous chip, making the CPU capable of 1 trillion operations per second.
Above: Apple A13 The machine learning controller helps balance machine learning processing among the different subprocessors. The chip also has a low-power mode thanks to its second-generation 7-nanometer process. There are two high performance cores that are 20% faster and 30% less power.
The chip has four high-efficiency CPU cores designed by Apple. It has hundreds of voltage domains on the chip, but power is supplied only to the ones being used at any given time. The cores are 20% faster and 40% lower power.
The result is the iPhone 11 Pro Max gets 5 hours more battery life than the iPhone XS Max.
Patrick Moorhead, analyst at Moor Insights & Strategy, said in an interview, “The A13 Bionic continues Apple’s charge of adding 20% to 40% improvements in CPU or GPU. Now, I would have liked to have seen a little bit more disclosure on the benchmarks they were using for the GPU. Not saying that that’s not accurate, but I’d love to see the details. The CPU looks phenomenal given 20% growth.” He added, “But interestingly enough, the most interesting thing for me it was extra battery life. You’re going to get between two and five hours extra. And while there’s a little bit of a bigger battery, I give a lot of the credit to the A13.” As for the second-generation 7-nanometer process, he said, “The second-generation 7-nanometer process from TSCMC adds EUV capability. If it doesn’t improve the speed of the transistors, it does lower the cost.” GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
