Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple unexpectedly releases iOS 13.1 developer beta before finalizing iOS 13 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
With only weeks remaining before the official release of iOS 13 , Apple surprised developers today with a beta version of iOS 13.1. Today’s update appears to contain plenty of bug fixes, but also includes audio sharing support, enabling a single device to output music simultaneously to two pairs of AirPods.
The developer beta is particularly noteworthy because a number of nontrivial bugs have persisted throughout the iOS and iPadOS 13 beta cycle, some of which may well ship with the final OS release next month. Some of the bugs affect core first-party apps such as Mail and Safari, while others may limit the functionality of third-party apps.
Traditionally, Apple triages beta releases to eliminate their biggest issues before general release, in some cases temporarily delaying nonessential features that are particularly challenging to implement. Audio sharing support, which calls for synchronized Bluetooth connections to multiple devices, appears to have met the nonessential threshold this year, but will in iOS 13.1 enable iPhone 8 or later, iPad (5th generation) or later, and iPod touch (7th generation) devices to connect simultaneously to two pairs of AirPods and Beats PowerBeats Pro headphones.
Another new iOS 13.1 feature, support for encoding HEVC videos with alpha channels, enables videos to be recorded with backgrounds that can be made transparent or invisible, for compositing or editing purposes. It may have been added to facilitate realtime editing of video backgrounds — a specialty of Apple-acquired developer Spektral — or to ease green screen-style compositing of live video with still photo or pre-rendered backgrounds, like Apple’s iMovie and Clips applications.
Apple’s iOS 13.1 developer beta is available now through the software update mechanisms on iPhones. It’s unclear whether it will also become available as a public beta prior to the general release of iOS 13, which is expected to take place shortly after an annual Apple media event next month.
Updated at 10:54 a.m. Pacific : Apple has also released a developer version of iPadOS 13.1, specifically for its tablet devices, which can similarly be accessed through the over-the-air software update mechanisms on iPads. Like the iOS 13.1 release, it’s a roughly 400MB patch to existing iPadOS 13.0 installations.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
