Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple Watch Series 5 hands-on — small power-mode tweaks and an 18-hour battery life Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Apple unveiled its Apple Watch Series 5 today at an event at the Steve Jobs Theater at Apple’s headquarters. I got a close look at the device after the announcement and shot this video.
Sorry for the vertical shot. But you can get an idea for some of the features. It isn’t so different from last year’s Series 4 watch, but there are some small tweaks for the $400 and up price.
This watch has an always-on display, so when you are exercising, you can always see how many seconds have lapsed by just glancing at the watch, even if it has entered low-power mode. You can also see your watch face in the low-power mode. The battery lasts for 18 hours — still not a whole day. It has a low-temperature polysilicone and oxide display and a low-power display driver.
When you move your wrist, the display will switch back to full brightness.
Meanwhile, Apple will drop the price of the Series 3 watch to $199, and the Series 4 has been dropped from the lineup.
The watch is available with recycled aluminum or titanium finishes. The stainless steel and ceramic options from prior models are also available. It has a compass app and emergency calling for international countries. Some people had hoped that Apple would launch its own sleep-tracking app, but it did not do so. Apple did show a video of a number of people who survived life-threatening situations because of health alerts from the Apple Watch.
The GPS model of the Apple Watch Series 5 costs $400, and the cellular-connected version is $500. You can order it today and it will ship in stores on September 20.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
