Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages The end of paper maps: Google Maps goes offline for Android Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Today Google declared the end of paper maps. For Android users, that is: Google Labs just launched “Download map area,” an experimental feature in Google Maps for Android.
“You will never need to carry a paper map again,” writes Chikai Ohazama, Director of Product Management, Google Maps for mobile, in the company’s mobile blog.
 “The ‘Download map area’ lab in Google Maps 5.7 for Android is a step in making that statement true even when you’re offline.” The “Download map area” lab requires Android 2.1+ and the latest version of Google Maps.
 You can use it to download any map with a 10-mile radius and navigate without a data signal or data plan. That’s handy because previous versions of Google Maps require an active internet connection in order to download the map data as you go. It could also be especially helpful for traveling abroad. Not only can you get around, you will look less touristy by not waving around a paper map.
Part of the helpfulness comes from Google admitting a weakness. Opening Google Maps for mobile and zooming into a specific area without data coverage or wifi results on the (incredibly frustrating) image to the left. Now you can “Download map area” while you still have access to Wi-Fi or data coverage and get the image on the right.
To access Labs on your phone, press your phone’s menu button once in Google Maps, choose “More” and select Labs. On a tablet, click the menu button in the upper-right corner of Maps. Google says a map download should only take a minute or two.
“This download stores only the base map tiles and the landmarks on the map, so you still need a data connection to see satellite view and 3D buildings, search for Places and get directions,” writes Ohazama.
The “Download map area” feature comes on the heels of the Google Maps 5.7 for Android release Wednesday, which added a number of additional features: better suggested search results, a photo viewer to Place pages, and Transit Navigation.
Transit Navigation, which is still in beta testing, allows stop-by-stop navigation for public transit in more than 400 cities. Here’s the coolest part: Transit Navigation uses GPS to determine your current location along your route and alerts you when it’s time to get off or make a transfer, even if you open another application or put your phone away entirely. Since Transit Navigation relies on GPS signals, it can only be used for above-ground transit. This should also be helpful for people who are hearing impaired, since there’s a vibrating alert.
“Now you can spend more time enjoying the sights out the window and less time worrying about how many stops are left, where you are along the route or whether you missed your stop,” writes Chris Van Der Westhuizen, Software Engineer, on Google’s official blog.
How quaint to think travelers will look out a window and not their Android device.
You can download Google Maps 5.7 for Android here.
 It requires an Android OS 2.1+ device and works anywhere Google Maps is currently available.
Click here to download the VentureBeat Windows 7 desktop app. The Intel AppUp developer program is the official launch sponsor.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
