Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple’s Scott Forstall lost his job after he refused to apologize for Maps, reports say Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn According to reports, Apple executive Scott Forstall, who oversaw Siri and Apple Maps, lost his job after refusing to sign an apology for the Maps fiasco.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Apple executive Scott Forstall refused to sign a public apology for the disastrous launch of Apple’s iOS Maps app.
A month later, he was forced out of his position of responsibility and into a year-long “consulting” gig that is most likely a way to keep him close , and prevent him from going to a competitor too quickly.
That’ll teach him to say no to the boss.
Apple announced Forstall’s departure earlier today, but as with most such announcements, details were not forthcoming.
Now, the Wall Street Journal and New York Times both report that Forstall refused to sign an apology letter, citing “sources familiar with the matter.” That’s probably code for official sources within Apple who want to discredit Forstall while remaining off the record.
Apple chief executive Tim Cook did put his name on the apology to customers on September 28 , after much public outcry over the new app’s many shortcomings. Those included images of melting cities, inexplicably distorted satellite views, and disappearing landmarks, along with many other hilariously bad aerial views.
 While the visual glitches were amusing, the app also frequently sent customers in the wrong direction — sometimes wildly so. Cartography expert and geography professor Mike Dobson figured that Apple wildly underestimated the difficulty of creating a complete map application.
Forstall, the Times reports, was “ambitious and divisive,” and was the Apple executive whose personality most resembled the late Steve Jobs. The difference: Jobs was the boss, and he could get away with it.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
