Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple’s Find My Friends app update gives friends more ways to keep tabs on you Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Apple updated its FindMyFriends app to allow you to get alerts when your friends enter or leave a custom-set radius around the location of your choice.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
An update to Apple’s Find My Friends app expands on your friends’ ability to know when you arrive at a specific location without you knowing, according to Ars Technica.
The Find My Friends app lets you locate friends who have shared their location with you through the app. You not only can see where your friends are, but the app lets you set up notifications for when they enter and leave a specific location as well. In this latest update, Apple now lets you expand that “geofence” from just that location to a radius around that location as far out as you’d like.
Apple intended the app to be used as a way to find people you’re meeting at a concert or know if someone is running late to a dinner because they’re stuck in traffic. But we all know there’s a seedy underbelly of humans who might use this type of tool to disrupt people’s privacy.
As Ars Technica notes, Apple released the feature that allows you to choose a location and be alerted when a friend arrives at that location in September 2012. But now you can use the pinch-to-zoom feature to expand the radius of that location. For example, if you want to know every time your friend goes to the Ferry Building, you can expand that “circle” to know if they’ve even entered downtown San Francisco.
The update also now lets you search for locations to set up these geofenced alerts.
Of course, you can always stop sharing your location with a person if you feel they’re abusing the system, but it’s something to keep in mind regardless of how much your trust your contacts.
FindMyFriends image via Apple VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
