Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple launches ‘Find My’ for iOS, iPadOS and macOS, replacing Find my iPhone Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
It’s been nine years since Apple introduced Find my iPhone , and nearly eight years since it launched Find my Friends , separate apps to ease the process of finding Apple devices and users. As was rumored in April , Apple is today combining these tools into a single app called Find My, and expanding the feature further with standalone tracking accessories.
Up until now, Find my iPhone has gone beyond its name, providing up-to-the-minute tracking information for not only persistently-connected iPhones, but also iPads, Apple Watches, Macs, iPod touches, and even AirPods — when they or their host devices share location information with the network. Similarly, Find My Friends lets you locate friends and family members who have opted into location sharing.
Putting these two apps together will increase convenience somewhat for iOS and iPadOS users, but represent a major step forward on the Mac, where Find My features have spent almost a decade trapped within iCloud’s web interface. That’s despite the Mac’s longstanding inclusion of a standalone Maps app, which uses the same underlying satellite or flat-shaded map details to help you find locations.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Apple also noted that Find My will have an activation lock feature that works with any T2 chip-equipped Mac, enabling computers that have been lost or stolen to be protected against easy resale by thieves. Notably, the feature will only be available with specific and more recent Mac models, as some do not use the T2 chip.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
