Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple reportedly plans macOS Music and Podcasts apps to replace iTunes Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Apple may finally be preparing to put its famous iTunes app out to pasture, as a new report today suggests that its one-time key components — Music, Podcasts, TV, and Books — will all be separate apps in the next major release of macOS. Mac-specific icons for some of the apps were discovered today by 9to5Mac , following Apple’s reference to a Mac TV app at last month’s Show Time event in Cupertino.
According to the report, the followup to macOS Mojave will include standalone Music, Podcasts, and TV apps, along with a “major redesign” of the Books app that will bring its design closer to the latest Apple News app, including a sidebar. Books were previously split from iTunes into their own iOS and Mac apps.
The new apps are said to be based upon Apple’s Marzipan initiative to bring iPad apps to the Mac. They’ll follow last year’s addition of Home, News, Stocks, and Voice Memos to Mojave, which means they’ll likely look largely if not entirely like the existing iPad apps.
Despite the new apps, however, Apple apparently plans to keep iTunes around for at least another year as a manual device-syncing option between Macs, iPods, iPhones, and iPads. The legacy app might continue to play music, podcasts, and video content, or it could be stripped of playback features, depending on how forcefully Apple want to push the change.
It remains to be seen whether Apple will make any significant changes to its strategy on Windows PCs, which currently use iTunes for Apple Music playback. The company notably brought iTunes to the Microsoft Store for Windows 10 less than a year ago.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
