Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple releases iOS 12, macOS Mojave, tvOS 12, and watchOS 5 betas Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Immediately following the WWDC 2018 keynote today, Apple has released the first developer betas of iOS 12, macOS Mojave, tvOS 12, and watchOS 5. All four betas are available for free to registered developers , along with Xcode 10, Apple’s latest software development framework.
iOS 12 notably promises performance improvements for earlier model iPhones and iPads, as well as new messaging features, such as Group FaceTime, Memojis, and more robust Animojis. It also adds support for ARKit 2.0, including multi-player augmented reality gaming with shared objects, and Siri Shortcuts.
macOS Mojave — aka macOS 10.14 — is the sequel to High Sierra, enhancing the Finder with a Dark Mode, deeper photo functionality and photo gallery-like views, and a Continuity Camera feature for instant iPhone image and scan importing. It also adds the functionality of several iOS apps — including Home, Stocks, News, and Voice Memos — to the Mac.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Apple also released the developer beta of tvOS 12 for the fourth-generation Apple TV and Apple TV 4K, most notably with Dolby Atmos support, zero sign-on support, and enhanced screensavers — including views from the International Space Station — as well as watchOS 5 for Apple Watch, featuring Walkie-Talkie mode, new Siri Shortcut integrations, and improved Fitness/Workout apps. Notably, watchOS 5 does not support the original 2015 version of the Apple Watch.
The developer betas are available from Apple’s developer web page and are not yet being offered to the general public. While a beta program will likely expand availability to Mac, iOS, and Apple TV users in the near future, the company has not previously released public betas for the Apple Watch.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
