Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Mozilla goes multilingual with open source Common Voice speech recognition datasets Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Mozilla is expanding its crowdsourced Common Voice project — an initiative that’s setting out to create an open source voice-recognition dataset — to include more languages.
The tech organization first announced Common Voice last June , inviting volunteers from around the world to record snippets of text with their voice through web and mobile apps.
Above: Record your voice The project serves as a sort of antithesis to the growing arsenal of proprietary voice recognition technologies being developed by the likes of Amazon, Google, Apple, and Microsoft. The aforementioned juggernauts are investing heavily in their voice-activated digital assistants Alexa, Google Assistant, Siri, and Cortana, but the respective datasets are owned by the companies themselves.
Mozilla launched the first fruits of its Common Voice datasets in English back in November , a collection that contained some 500 hours of speech and constituted 400,000 recordings from 20,000 individuals. Today, Mozilla officially kick starts the process of collecting voice data for three more languages — French, German, and — a little randomly — Welsh. Another 40 tongues are currently being prepped for the data collection process, with the likes of Brazilian Portuguese, Chinese (Taiwan), Indonesian, Polish, and Dutch already halfway toward being ready to start crowdsourcing voice data.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Next big platform It has been apparent for a number of years that voice will be the next big platform in technology. Just yesterday, Amazon officially launched its new camera-infused, Alexa-powered Echo Look smart speaker that tells you what clothes you should wear. We are still very much in the early days of this movement, but it’s clear that voice will only become more pervasive.
It’s against this backdrop that Mozilla is pushing ahead with plans to create an open source dataset that can be freely used by anyone to build voice-recognition smarts into all manner of applications and services.
“We believe these interfaces shouldn’t be controlled by a few companies as gatekeepers to voice-enabled services, and we want users to be understood consistently, in their own languages and accents,” said Mozilla’s chief innovation officer, Katharina Borchert, in a blog post.
The Common Voice project serves a purpose similar to that of other open-license projects that have emerged to counter privately owned platforms. OpenStreetMap is a good example of a similarly crowdsourced project that gives developers open and freely usable maps of the world, without the costs or restrictions of rival services such as Google Maps.
In terms of accessibility, English may be the lingua franca of the internet in many regards, but the fact remains that most people speak a language other than English as their native tongue. And with the voice-recognition AI revolution gaining steam, anything that offers developers and technologists multilingual datasets to train machine-learning models can only be a good thing.
“Going multilingual marks a big step for Common Voice, and we hope that it’s also a big step for speech technology in general,” added Michael Henretty, digital strategist for Mozilla’s Common Voice project. “Democratizing voice technology will not only lower the barrier for global innovation, but also the barrier for access to information.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
