Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft launches Project Brainwave for deep learning acceleration in preview Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn An illustration of Intel's Stratix 10 FPGA, one of the models Microsoft uses in its datacenters.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Microsoft today announced that Project Brainwave, its system for running AI models with specialized chips, is now available in preview on Azure. Brainwave allows developers to deploy machine learning models onto programmable silicon and achieve high performance beyond what they’d be able to get from a CPU or GPU. Microsoft claims Project Brainwave makes Azure the fastest cloud to run real-time AI today.
Brainwave uses specialized field programmable gate array (FPGA) chips to achieve its speed and low latency, and Brainwave on Azure will use Intel Stratix 10 chips and be able to support ResNet50-based neural networks.
Microsoft first revealed its use of Brainwave for serving AI models last summer, and in March said it’s being used to make AI that powers Bing search results 10 times faster.
The news was announced onstage at Build, the Microsoft annual developer conference being held May 7-9 at the Washington State Convention Center in Seattle, Washington.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Also announced today were updates to Azure Bot Service and IoT Edge , a Speech Devices SDK , a $25 million initiative to support the creation of AI for people with disabilities, and Amazon joined Microsoft onstage for a demonstration of how Cortana and Alexa will work together.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
