Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Intel launches OpenVINO computer vision toolkit for edge computing Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Intel today announced the launch of OpenVINO or Open Visual Inference & Neural Network Optimization, a toolkit for the quick deployment of computer vision for edge computing in cameras and IoT devices.
OpenVINO will be compatible with popular open source frameworks like Caffe and TensorFlow and will work with Intel’s traditional CPUs, or chips specially made for AI inference — like the field programmable gate array (FPGA) chips and Movidius vision processing unit (VPU) that launched into production earlier this year.
The news comes a week after Microsoft announced plans to create a computer vision developer kit for edge computing with Qualcomm that uses Azure Machine Learning services, Qualcomm’s Vision Intelligence Platform, and Qualcomm’s AI Engine.
“Processing high-quality video requires the ability to rapidly analyze vast streams of data near the edge and respond in real time, moving only relevant insights to the cloud asynchronously,” Intel VP Tom Lantzsch said in a blog post.
 “The OpenVINO toolkit is designed to fast-track development of high-performance computer vision and deep learning inference applications at the edge.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! OpenVINO is being used by companies like GE Healthcare for medical imaging, Dahua for smart city solutions, and others like Amazon Web Services and Honeywell, according to Intel.
OpenVINO competes with a number of computer vision services from companies like AWS, Google, Microsoft, and Clarifai.
In addition to OpenVINO, Intel has its Computer Vision SDK and Mobileye, a computer vision company acquired in 2017 for $15 billion that focuses on autonomous driving.
More AI news may be on the way from Intel as the company hosts a conference for developers using artificial intelligence later this month in San Francisco.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
