Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: Confidential computing market could grow to $54B by 2026 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Research firm Everest Group recently published a report that projects the trajectory of the confidential computing market could grow to $54 billion by 2026. This exponential growth is being fueled by enterprise cloud and security initiatives, expanding regulations, especially in privacy-sensitive industries such as health care and financial services.
All segments of confidential computing are poised for growth, including software, hardware, and services. Regulated industries are expected to dominate the adoption of confidential computing, with over 75% of the demand driven by regulated industries such as banking, finance, and healthcare.
“We continue to see data breaches resulting from gaps in infrastructure security because it is very hard to protect infrastructure,” said David Greene, head of the Confidential Computing Consortium (CCC)’s outreach committee and chief revenue officer of Fortanix. “Confidential computing takes a different approach by focusing on protecting the data, even when it is in use, which is just not possible using any other technology.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “This research validates Anjuna’s own experience that confidential computing is poised for dramatic growth as the way to keep data secure by default,” added Ayal Yogev, member of the CCC and cofounder and CEO of Anjuna Security. The adoption of this technology is seen “As a key factor in allowing enterprises to migrate even their most sensitive workloads to the cloud simply and securely.” The ability to utilize and share rich data without compromising security and privacy can help accelerate the advancement of solutions and services that benefits both industry and consumers. Some use cases the report identifies include collaborative analytics for anti-money laundering and fraud detection, research and analytics on patient data and drug discovery, and treatment modeling and security for IoT devices.
Read the full report by Everest Group.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
