Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: Despite ‘great resignation’ wave, U.S. workforce sees 21% increase in return to work since August Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
In September, the U.S. saw a 21% increase in the number of employees returning to work compared to August, according to the latest data from workplace management platform Robin.
Above: The U.S. and North America saw major gains in employees returning to office in September 2021.
The Delta variant surge pushed many organizations to re-evaluate their return to office (RTO) plans as continued uncertainty and renewed pandemic restrictions accelerated the demand for increased flexibility , visibility, and control over the office. While companies like Apple, Amazon, Facebook, and Google announced delays to their official return to office plans, others forged ahead. Robin’s team of data scientists analyzed millions of real-life desk, conference room, and office asset reservations from its global customer base to identify significant trends in the worldwide RTO.
The latest installment of Robin’s report found that the number of desk bookings actually rose 15% from August, indicating many companies kept their September return dates and that the August dip was likely driven by vacations. Workers in big cities drove the spike in-office attendance, with San Francisco, New York, and Boston, all-seeing an increase of 30% or more in the percentage of employees returning. Although this increase varied across major U.S. markets and industries, Robin’s data team believes the momentum is indicative of a broad transition to hybrid work models and employees’ desire to return to the office at least part of the time.
This is further supported by the fact that IT and Professional Services, two industries that are exceptionally amenable to hybrid and remote working practices, saw some of the biggest gains of U.S. employees returning in September.
Read the full report by Robin.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
