Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages 40% of SaaS data access is unmanaged and publicly exposed Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Composable data and analytics Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Up to 40% of SaaS data access is unmanaged, which means that anyone with a private or public link can expose the data to thousands of external collaborators whose relevancy is unknown, according to a new report by DoControl.
The report serves as a wake up call for CISOs, CTOs, and CIOs who are currently unaware of the internal and external threats facing their unmanaged data in SaaS applications. Clearly, this poses a significant risk to the organizations that house this data and exponentially increases the likelihood of a data breach. The most surprising takeaway from the report, which is based on aggregated, anonymized US customer data, is that companies are unaware of how much data access is still afforded to former employees, former vendors, and former partners.
On average, a 1,000-person company stores between 500,000 to 10 million assets in SaaS applications, and companies with unmanaged data may be allowing up to 200,000 of these assets to be shared publicly. DoControl aggregated and analyzed the data from the report and sorted the findings into internal and external threats.
In terms of insider threats, an average of 400 encryption keys and 20% of SaaS assets are shared internally to anyone with a link, exposing many employees to data points that they are not authorized to view. In regards to external threats, between 1,000-15,000 external collaborators and 200-3000 third-party companies have access to company assets, and 18% of SaaS application assets that are shared externally remain accessible even after deleting users.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Read the full report by DoControl.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
