Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages 89% of tech execs see synthetic data as a key to staying ahead Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Nearly nine in ten (89%) technology decision makers who use vision data agree synthetic data is a new and innovative technology and believe that organizations that fail to adopt synthetic data are at risk of falling behind the curve, according to new research by Synthesis AI in conjunction with Vanson Bourne.
 Technology leaders agree that synthetic data will be an essential enabling technology and key to staying ahead.
Above: Synthetic Data could be a solution to the time consuming and cost prohibitive nature of supervised learning.
AI is driven by the speed, diversity, and quality of data. However, supervised learning approaches commonly used to train AI systems today are fundamentally limited, as humans do not scale and, more importantly, cannot label key attributes necessary to enable emerging industries such as AR/VR, autonomous vehicles, robotics, and more.
The survey revealed that synthetic data, or computer-generated image data that models the real world, could be a solution to the time consuming and cost prohibitive nature of supervised learning.
 Out of the respondents knowledgeable of synthetic data technologies, 50% believe a benefit of synthetic data is overcoming limited labels provided through supervised learning/human annotation, and 82% recognize their organization is at risk when they collect ‘real world’ data.
Further, the report identified a lack of organizational knowledge (67%) and slow buy-in from colleagues (67%) as the most prominent entry barriers when using synthetic data. Synthetic data is just beginning its cycle of adoption and value to the enterprise, and many industries are beginning to experiment with the technology. Buy-in from colleagues and decision makers will be critical for synthetic data to be accepted.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Despite the identified barriers, more than half (59%) of decisionmakers believe their industry will utilize synthetic data either independently or in combination with ‘real world’ data in the next five years.
The report presents findings and takeaways from a survey of 100 senior executives with decision making power across functions such as IT, financial services, retail, business and professional services, construction, technology, energy, manufacturing, automotive, consumer services, and media. Participants were primarily from organizations with 500-999 employees (30%) and 1,000-2,999 employees (31%).
Read the full report by Synthesis.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
