Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Researchers find evidence of bias in recommender systems Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Movies - Film -- Projector Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
In a new preprint study , researchers at the Eindhoven University of Technology, DePaul University, and the University of Colorado Boulder find evidence of bias in recommender systems like those surfacing movies on streaming websites. They say that as users act on recommendations and their actions are added to the systems (a process known as a feedback loop), biases become amplified, leading to other problems like declines in aggregate diversity, shifts in representations of taste, and homogenization of the user experience.
Collaborative filtering is a technique that leverages historical data about interactions between users and items — for example, TV show user ratings — to generate personalized recommendations. But recommendations provided by CF generally suffer from bias against certain user or item groups, usually arising from biases in the input data and algorithmic bias.
It’s the researchers’ assertion that bias could be intensified over time when users interact with the recommendations. To test this theory, they simulated the recommendation process by iteratively generating recommendation lists and updating users’ profiles by adding items from those lists based on an acceptance probability. Bias was modeled with a function that took into account the percent increase of the popularity of recommendations compared with that of ratings provided by users on different items.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! In experiments, the researchers analyzed the performance of recommender systems on the MovieLens data set, a corpus of over 1 million movie ratings collected by the GroupLens research group. Even in the case of an algorithm that recommended the most popular movies to everyone, accounting for movies already seen, amplified bias caused it to deviate from users’ preferences over time. The recommendations tended to be either more diverse than what users were interested in or over-concentrated on a few items. More problematically, the recommendations showed evidence of “strong” homogenization. Over time, because the MovieLens data set contains more ratings from male than female users, the algorithms caused female user profiles to edge closer to the male-dominated population, resulting in recommendations that deviated from female users’ preferences.
Like the coauthors of another study on biased recommender systems, the researchers suggest potential solutions to the problem. They suggest using strategies for user grouping based on average profile size and popularity of rated items and different algorithms that control for popularity bias. They also advocate not restricting the regrading of items already in users’ profiles, instead updating them in each iteration.
“The impact of feedback loop is generally stronger for the users who belong to the minority group,” the researchers wrote. “These results emphasize the importance of the algorithmic solutions to tackle popularity bias and increasing diversity in the recommendations since even a small bias in the current state of a recommender system could be greatly amplified over time if it is not addressed properly.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
