Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Synthetic data platform Mostly AI lands $25M Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Austria-based Mostly AI , a startup that simulates synthetic data for AI model training and testing, today announced it has raised $25 million in a series B round from Molten Ventures. The company plans to use the investment to accelerate its work in setting the groundwork for responsible and unbiased AI, hiring fresh talent, and strengthening its presence across Europe and North America.
For any modern-day enterprise, the biggest challenge associated with leveraging data for AI/ML is ensuring the privacy of its consumers — the original source of the data — and eliminating the possibility of any sort of bias due to historical or social inequities in that data. Organizations often find a hard time dealing with the two problems and either end up facing fines for privacy violations (under regulations such as GDPR) or train a model which is unfair on one or more parameters.
Mostly AI synthetic data generator To tackle challenges, data scientists Michael Platzer, Klaudius Kalcher, and Roland Boubela started Mostly AI in 2017. The startup uses AI to create a realistic & representative synthetic dataset, one that retains the information required for the data value chain – from AI model training and advanced analytics to software testing – but no original personal data points.
This gives data scientists and engineers as-good-as-real, yet fully anonymous, data in their hands to work with.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The solution works by leveraging a state-of-the-art generative deep neural network with an in-built privacy mechanism. It learns valuable statistical patterns, structures, and variations from the original data and recreates these patterns using a population of fictional characters to give out a synthetic copy that is privacy compliant, de-biased, and just as useful as the original dataset – reflecting behaviors and patterns with up to 99% accuracy.
Additional benefits In addition to ensuring privacy-safe and fair AI/ML projects, Mostly AI’s platform also accelerates enterprises’ overall time to data. This is because, unlike original datasets, synthetic data can be generated quickly in abundance. The company claims its technology has already been proven to reduce time-to-data by 90%, saving larger companies more than $10 million annually on data provisioning and internal overhead and boosting available data by 85%.
With the latest funding, which saw the participation of Earlybird, 42CAP, and Citi Ventures, Mostly AI plans to expand its footprint in the U.S. and Europe and build out its customer base in the banking and insurance sector. The company has already roped in multiple Fortune 100 banks and insurers.
However, it is not the only player in this space.
Tonic.ai , Synthesis AI, Hazy , and Gretel are a few other startups that are working to create fake datasets to help enterprises accelerate their AI projects.
Demand for synthetic AI Given the growing concerns and regulations around data privacy and the surging need for data-driven solutions, synthetic data is expected to be a major driver for enterprises in the near future. According to Gartner , by 2024, 60% of the data used for the de­vel­op­ment of AI and an­a­lyt­ics projects will be syn­thet­i­cally gen­er­ated. In a separate study , nine out of ten technical decision-makers using vision data said synthetic data is a new and innovative technology and critical to staying ahead of the curve.
“2022 will be the year of synthetic data. Synthetic data helps solve some of the industry’s most vexing issues when it comes to AI. It eliminates concerns about data privacy, it can be freely shaped and formed in order to accelerate AI initiatives, and it enables enterprises to augment and de-bias their data sets,” Tobias Hann, CEO of Mostly AI, said in a statement. “We’re extremely excited about the future of synthetic data, and to partner with Molten Ventures, which shares our vision for fundamentally changing how companies work with data.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
