Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Facebook launches PyTorch Mobile for edge ML on Android and iOS devices Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Facebook engineering director Lin Qiao onstage at PyTorch Developer Conference at The Midway held October 10, 2019 in San Francisco Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Facebook is planing to release PyTorch Mobile for deploying machine learning models on Android and iOS devices.
PyTorch Mobile was released today alongside PyTorch 1.3, the latest version of Facebook’s open source deep learning library with quantization and support for use of Google Cloud TPUs, and tools like Captum, which supplies explainability for machine learning models.
PyTorch Mobile launches in experimental mode, like a public beta still in development that may change APIs or evolve in different ways before a general availability release.
“We fully expect this to be extended to support kind of generic Linux embedded platforms like Raspberry Pi that people are already deploying on today, but support [at launch] will be focused mainly on iOS and Android,” PyTorch product manager Joe Spisak told VentureBeat in a phone interview.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The release of PyTorch Mobile, which follows the earlier release of Caffe2go , will compete with offerings from other tech giants like Apple’s Core ML 3 and Google’s TensorFLow Lite 1.0.
A key difference between PyTorch Mobile and others, including Caffe2go, is that it can launch with its own runtime and was created with the assumption that anything you want to do on a mobile or edge device you may also want to do on a server, Spisak said.
PyTorch Mobile was one of several newsworthy upgrades announced today for Facebook’s popular deep learning library. Also new today: PyTorch version 1.3 with quantization, named tensors for cleaner code, and the ability to use Google Cloud TPUs.
The Captum tool for explaining machine learning models and CrypTen for privacy-focused machine learning were also introduced today.
PyTorch 1.3 launches with quantization support, a feature key to mobile deployments. Google also brought quantization to TensorFlow Lite earlier this year.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
