Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google AI’s ALBERT claims top spot in multiple NLP performance benchmarks Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Researchers from Google AI (formerly Google Research) and Toyota Technological Institute of Chicago have created ALBERT, an AI model that achieves state-of-the-art results that exceed human performance. ALBERT now claims first place on major NLP performance leaderboards for benchmarks like GLUE and SQuAD 2.0 , and high RACE performance score.
On the Stanford Question Answering Dataset benchmark ( SQUAD ), ALBERT achieves a score of 92.2, on General Language Understanding Evaluation ( GLUE ) benchmark, ALBERT achieves a score of 89.4, and on ReAding Comprehension from English Examinations (RACE) benchmark, ALBERT gets a score of 89.4%.
ALBERT is a version of Transformer-based BERT that “uses parameter reduction techniques to lower memory consumption and increase the training speed of BERT,” according to a paper published on OpenReview.net Wednesday and on arXiv on Thursday.
 The paper was published alongside other papers being considered for publication as part of the International Conference of Learning Representations, which will take place in April 2020 in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. ICLR will be the first international AI community conference held in Africa.
“Our proposed methods lead to models that scale much better compared to the original BERT. We also use a self-supervised loss that focuses on modeling inter-sentence coherence, and show it consistently helps downstream tasks with multi-sentence inputs,” the paper reads.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! ALBERT is the latest derivative of BERT to claim a top spot in major benchmark tests. In late July, Facebook AI Research introduced RoBERTa , a model that achieved state-of-the-art results, and in May, Microsoft AI researchers introduced Multi-Task Deep Neural Network (MT-DNN), a model that achieved top marks in 7 of 9 GLUE benchmarks.
Each of the models achieves performance that outpaces average human performance.
In other Transformer-related news, Hugging Face, a startup whose PyTorch library for easy use of major Transformer models like BERT, Open AI’s GPT-2 and Google’s XLNet today made that library available for TensorFlow.
 PyTorch-Transformers has seen more than 500,000 Pip installs since the start of year, Hugging Face CEO Clément Delangue told VentureBeat.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
