Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages OpenAI launches Gym, a toolkit for testing and comparing reinforcement learning algorithms Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn OpenAI's Gym.
OpenAI, the nonprofit artificial intelligence research company established last year with backing from several Silicon Valley figures, today announced its first product: a proving ground for algorithms for reinforcement learning, which involves training machines to do things based on trial and error.
OpenAI is releasing tools you can run locally to test out algorithms in various “environments” — including Atari games like Air Raid, Breakout, and Ms. Pacman — and a Web service for sharing test results. The system automatically scores evaluations and also seeks to have results reviewed and reproduced by other people.
“We originally built OpenAI Gym as a tool to accelerate our own RL research. We hope it will be just as useful for the broader community,” OpenAI’s Greg Brockman and John Schulman wrote in a blog post.
To be sure, there are other online places for showing off algorithms, including Algorithmia.
 But that’s a more general purpose repository. OpenAI’s Gym, which is launching today in public beta, is more targeted to a long-studied but increasingly popular domain, one that recently got a lot of attention because it’s part of what Google’s DeepMind research group used in its AlphaGo program that managed to defeat top-ranked Go player Lee Sedol earlier this year.
But there are not very good benchmarks in this area and environments are not standardized, Brockman and Schulman wrote.
“OpenAI Gym is an attempt to fix both problems,” they wrote.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
