Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages AT&T teams with Microsoft on 5G, AI, cloud, and edge innovations Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella and AT&T CEO John Donovan announced a strategic collaboration around 5G, AI, the cloud, and edge computing.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
AT&T’s mobile 5G network isn’t actually attracting consumers yet , but businesses are interested in the transformational improvements 5G can bring — and Microsoft is getting out in front of the impending wave of change. The carrier and enterprise-focused software maker announced today that they’re “joining forces to innovate around 5G, AI, cloud, and edge computing,” a development that could have wide-ranging implications for both companies and their customers.
Initially, the deal is about pairing AT&T’s network with Microsoft’s Azure cloud capabilities, with the potential to leverage 5G’s dramatic increases in bandwidth and reductions in latency to deliver faster cloud services. AT&T says that it’s making Microsoft its preferred cloud provider for non-network applications, and will move “most” non-network workloads to the public cloud by 2024, consolidating datacenters in the process. Additionally, AT&T plans to provide “ much of its workforce ” with Microsoft 365 cloud-based tools.
Microsoft will gain access to AT&T’s 5G network, which will be expanding from millimeter wave-exclusive dots of coverage for business users to nationwide coverage for consumers by the “first half of 2020.” The companies will collaborate to create edge computing solutions, with 5G serving as the enabler of moving processing power from devices and centralized datacenters to the network’s edge.
While today’s announcement is largely focused on the business benefits of the tie-up, the companies suggest that consumers will see “game-changing” benefits in AR, VR, video streaming , and autonomous vehicles thanks to the deal. They’ll also collaborate on public safety and industrial initiatives, including integrated internet of things devices and cybersecurity solutions.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! A spokesperson notes that new services based on the collaboration will be announced later this year. The companies have previously worked together on consumer ventures, as well as networking, blockchain, and internet of things offerings for enterprise customers.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
