Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Facebook is building chips to analyze and filter live video Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg at F8 developer conference in San Jose, California on May 1, 2018 Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Facebook is in the process of making its own chips for filtering video content, chief AI scientist Yann LeCun revealed today in a talk at the Viva Technology industry conference in Paris.
Conventional methods are no longer sufficient as they require too much energy and compute power, LeCun said, according to Bloomberg.
 Last month, Bloomberg reported that Facebook is building its own semiprocessor.
Facebook currently uses Intel CPUs for many of its AI services, engineering manager Kim Hazelwood recently told attendees at Intel AI DevCon this week. A transition to a specialized chip could help the company more quickly filter video content for violations of its terms of service, like if a person commits suicide in a livestream or performs another act of violence. Facebook currently uses various forms of computer vision to do things like remove content by terrorist organizations like ISIS.
Graphics processing units (GPU) from companies like AMD and Nvidia assist with the rapidly increasing amount of unlabeled data like images and videos in the world. Google continues to accelerate AI training and deployment with its tensor processing unit (TPU), and Intel’s Stratix 10, a field programmable gate array (FPGA) chip, is being used for Microsoft’s Project Brainwave.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Apple, Google, and Amazon are also reportedly planning to make specialized chips to speed up AI services for their hardware products.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
