Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google Cloud makes pods with 1,000 TPU chips available in public beta Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Google Cloud Platform today introduced a public beta for Cloud TPU v2 and Cloud TPU v3 pods. Connected by a toroidal mesh network across multiple racks, a TPU pod can contain more than 1,000 tensor processing units.
TPU Pod Slices are also available for as little as 16 TPU chips at once.
Liquid-cooled Cloud TPU v3 pods can deliver more than 100 petaflops of computing power. Conversely, Cloud TPU v2 pods released in alpha last year can achieve 11.5 petaflops.
For extreme machine learning tasks, Google began to develop its tensor processing units (TPU) years ago. The programmable custom chips for machine learning have been used for AI workloads at Google since 2015, and in recent years have increasingly been made available to researchers and developers in need of high-speed training of AI models.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The news was announced today at Google’s annual I/O developer conference in Mountain View, California.
The second-generation TPU made its debut in 2017 , and the liquid-cooled TPU v3 was teased at I/O last year.
Other news announced today includes the debut of the Nest Hub Max , Google Assistant upgrades, the Pixel 3a smartphone , and the launch of Android Q beta 3.
Also new today for developers: ML Kit to bring AI to Android and iOS apps got object detection and language translation for 59 languages, the same models that power the Google Translate app.
AutoML Video Intelligence and Vision Edge were also introduced today, and add to the launch of Anthos for hybrid computing last month , as well as the launch of TensorFlow 2.0 and TensorFlow Lite 1.0 in March.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
