Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos Speaks at WIRED25 About Released on 10/15/2018 (upbeat music) (applause) I wrote about Blue Origin.
Yeah It's one of the company's you're involved with.
Yes And so that's what we're gonna talk about today.
Great, good.
Blue Origin.
It'll be fun.
So before I did this story, you told me you wanted me to watch something, you know like an old TV show.
Can we get the slides? Yeah I gave him homework.
Yes I had some home work.
Well you see this, it was a, tell me about this.
Why did you ask me to watch this TV show? Okay, this is an incredible short video that I would recommend all of you go, you know find on the internet and watch.
This was recently rediscovered.
It is a guy named Jerry O'Neill, who is a Princeton physicist who promoted this idea of giant space colonies as a place for humans to settle into the solar system as opposed to settling on the surfaces of other planets.
And the guy sitting next to Jerry O'Neill there is Issac Asimov, the famous science fiction author.
And for me, Jerry was very formative in my high school years.
I read his book called The High Frontier and it resonated with me, it made a lot of sense to me.
And he was the first person to ask this very fundamental question: If we are to expand into the solar system, is a planetary surface the right place to do so? And did a lot of research with his grad students and so on and concluded the answer's somewhat surprisingly to him was no, that there would be better ways.
And in this interview one of the delightful little moments in it is the interviewer asks Issac Asimov why he thinks it is that nobody had come up with this idea before.
Cause there had been lots of science fiction stories about settling other planets, but never these giant space colonies.
By the way, don't think International Space Station, these space colonies would hold a million plus people.
They're very large, they have rivers and farmland and so on.
And Issac Asimov answers, he says, yeah I know I think I know why nobody has thought of this before, it's because were planetary chauvinists.
And I believe we are.
It makes sense, we grew up on one.
So, you mentioned high school.
And this has been something you've been, I think it's fair to say obsessed with since high school.
Can we see a picture, you know at one point you went to space camp.
Yep.
And can you find Jeff in here? Let's watch the circle here Look for hair.
There he is (audience laughs) And that's my physics teacher, Deanna Ruel, just beneath me and a little to the right.
So yeah your physics teacher who you're company This one was not really space camp, this was the Space Shuttle Student Involvement Project.
And we created experiments.
That was the finalists in that was a nationwide competition and this is at Marshall Space Flight Center.
I wanted to send common household flies into space and see what affect it had on their little tiny fly muscles.
(audience chuckles) But anyway, I was a finalist but not a winner so my experiment never flew.
But now with Blue Origin, you don't wanna send only flies to space, you wanna send many humans into space. Yes You're building an infrastructure where the bulk of humanity and actually a larger population of humanity that the earth could possibly sustain, will be in outer space, that's your mission, isn't it? That's the mission.
I won't be alive to see the fulfillment of that long-term mission.
What we have to do is we have to decide, are we willing to live in a world of stasis, or do we wanna continue to increase the amount of energy that we use per capita, continue to increase the population of humanity And I like the non-stasis view of the future.
I think it's way better for our grandchildren's grandchildren if they can continue to use more energy than we do.
If you take current baseline energy usage on earth and compound it at just a few percent a year for just a few hundred years, you have to cover the entire surface of the earth in solar cells.
Such is the power of compounding.
Now of course, that won't happen.
Other things will happen and you know, we are starting to bump up against the absolute true fact that earth is finite.
And the earth is so small.
If you look at the output from the sun and think about what a tiny fraction of the solar energy that the earth intercepts, it's this tiny little piece.
And so what's gonna happen over the long-term? We'll have a trillion humans in the solar system and then you'll have a thousand Einsteins and a thousand Mozarts, it'll be a much better civilization for your grandchildren's grandchildren.
And will continue to increase energy usage per capita, which is so fundamental that is brings us so many things.
At the same time, we'll continue to be more energy efficient in how we use energy improve also always been getting better at.
So we have to do that and Blue's role in this, Blue Origin, what we do is lower the cost of access to space.
So the analogy I use is the dynamism that I have seen over that last 20 years in the internet where incredible things have happened in really short periods of time.
Amazon was a garage start-up, now it's a very large company.
Two kids in a dorm room built Facebook you know, in less than two decades.
It's a half trillion dollar market cap company.
Two kids in a dorm room cannot build an important space company today.
The price of admission is too high.
So what Blue Origin is working on doing is lowering the price admission so that the next generation, there can be some you know, Mark Zuckerberg's of space.
Where some kid in their dorm room comes up with a brilliant idea and actually does that.
Cause that's the only we get to the future that I'm talking about, is we need thousands of companies.
We need the same dynamism in space that we've seen online over the last 20 years.
And we can do that.
We need reusable space vehicles.
So you're spending about a billion dollars of your money every year.
Yes To put into Blue Origin And I know that-- Next year it'll be a little more.
I just got that news from the team.
Oh really? (audience laughs) Yeah, recently.
I always say yes, I'm like the worst.
Well, you're doing pretty well at Amazon, very well, I think you're the richest guy on the planet, this planet.
(audience laughs) And some people say, well maybe it shouldn't be the richest people to take their visions even if sometimes they're peculiar.
And be able to spend the money there, instead of the pressing problems that we have here on earth.
Now I know you just announced 2 billion dollars for the day one fund.
You're gonna put it to education and address the homelessness problem there.
But still, address that bigger issue of should it be individuals who were lucky enough and you know, have worked hard to come up with innovative ideas like you have with Amazon, to be able to take on the giant problems of humanity and decide, hey space rather than poverty? We want both and so what you want is you want individuals to be able to pursue things that they think are important and you want governments to pursue things that are important.
Cause they optimize for different things.
Governments have to, they tend to have to be quite conservative.
They aren't, you know, when you're playing with tax payer money governments have to optimize.
They're often optimizing for not being embarrassed instead of for some kind of other outcome that you might think in a particular situation is better.
And then there are things that only governments can do.
Just because of the scale of things, I mean my Amazon stock is tiny compared to the resources of the US federal government, tiny.
You know, I was talking to Mike Bloomberg not too long ago and he said that some hedge fund guys came to him and said, Good news we're gonna fix the public school system for you.
We've come together and we've raised a billion dollars.
And he said, do you know what the annual budget of the New York City school public system is? He said it's 22 billion dollars a year.
And that's just New York City.
So some of these things people don't have, sometimes they don't have the scale of things right.
The federal government is gigantic and deploys enormous resources.
And there's certain things that can only be done in that model.
And those things should be done in that model.
I wanna do things, I'm in a great very luxurious position where I will not spend one minute of my life on anything I don't think is contributing to society and civilization.
There're lots of ways to do that.
I'm very proud of the work that the Washington Post is doing.
I think they're contributing to society.
I'm very proud of the work that Amazon is doing, in empowering people within AWS and a bunch of other tools and in retail saving people time and money.
That is contributing to society.
Blue Origin is the most important thing I'm working on.
But I won't live to see the it all rolled out.
But you want people to be doing things.
You want risk taking.
You want people to have vision that most people don't agree with.
If you have a vision and you're gonna pursue something that everybody agrees with, probably you shouldn't do it cause somebody else is gonna do it.
So you have to find something that's non-redundant.
You have to find something where your particular life path has led you to be something in a particular way.
That you can pursue it, contribute to society, but in a unique way.
All of the real needle movers are driven by being right when most of the world is wrong.
Now part of my research here, I went to Texas, to West Texas.
Yep, that was a fun trip.
It was a fun trip and you know I watched a rocket launch.
And maybe that's a good way to talk about what Blue Origin is doing.
Can we queue up the first video? This is the launch that I was able to witness.
Why don't you tell us a little bit of what's going on here when we get this rolling.
Okay this is the most recent flight of Blue Origin.
This is a very important test because the vehicle has an escape motor in the crew capsule in case something with the booster.
And we have been testing that escape system in different flight regimes.
And try to, make sure that it works.
And this was a high altitude escape which is one of the more stressing cases and it went beautifully.
It's the last of the important escape tests.
It looks like CGI but that's a real video of the vehicle landing on its' tail under rocket power.
That is mind blowing to see a rocket come down to earth.
Yes.
And you figure, it's got to be going flipping sideways and things like that but it's actually flying like a self-driving car or That's right An airplane under control.
It's an inverted pendulum problem that you're solving when you land under rocket power.
It's like you're balancing a broomstick on the tip of your finger.
And one of the reasons that we chose vertical landing as our architecture, is that it scales really well.
Just like with an inverted pendulum, it gets easier the bigger the pendulum gets.
So you can't really balance a pencil on the tip of your finger.
It's actually very difficult to do, cause you need such high response time.
But as you get to a broomstick, it's actually pretty easy to balance a broomstick on the end of your finger.
So the bigger the vehicle gets, the easier the vertical landing gets.
It scales very nicely.
Now when we saw the capsule land, what wasn't shown in that video was what the capsule landed on.
The horned toad.
Yes.
Yeah, I know that was remarkable and he hopped away.
Yeah, yeah.
That's like a very lucky toad.
(audience laughs) Yeah, it's just some toad sitting there basking in the desert and you know the whoop-- We lifted the capsule up with a crane and there was this toad right under it.
Now that spaceship, New Shepherd, is going to take humans into space and they're not gonna be professionals, but paid customers.
That's right, It's a tourism mission.
And when is that gonna happen? I'm hopeful that that will happen in 2019.
I was hopeful it would happen in 2018.
You run outta time.
I keep telling the team it's not a race.
We're, you know, I want this to be the safest space vehicle in the history of space vehicles.
And so in 2019, what struck me, and you know I got to tour the capsule, was that people are going to up, there are six people and they're lined up around the periphery of the capsule.
But there's no Blue Origin employees in there.
There's no flight attendants. No.
I'm gonna go out into space without anyone to tell me maybe it's time to sit down in your chair and stop bouncing around.
That's right.
No and there's seats and they're all gonna be for paying astronauts and there will be no Blue Origin employee on the flight.
I love that you call them astronauts.
Because you say they're gonna have maybe like a day or two of training? Yeah, they'll have a day or two of training.
I'm pushing for a day, I don't think you need two days of training for this.
But maybe two days of training.
And people say they were arched, they will be astronauts, so if you get above the Karman line, which is 100 kilometers above the surface of the earth, you do earn you astronaut wings.
You know Alan Shepard was the first American to do that.
He went on a suborbital flight many many decades ago now.
And that's the offer we're gonna make to people.
And they say that seeing the thin limb of the earth's atmosphere and seeing the earth from that perspective really changes you.
They call it the overview effect.
And of course you can also do somersaults and giant windows.
It's gonna be very pretty.
Now, you know, I compared it to saying well, they're astronauts in the sense that when you join the universal life ministry to do a wedding, you're a cleric.
You know because Yeah it seems a shortcut.
(audience laughs) That's step one is New Shepard Yep.
And step two is New Glenn and we have a video of that too.
Yep.
Tell me about this [Jeff] Yeah, I'll tell you about this.
This is CGI, we're building New Glenn right now.
It'll fly in 2021.
It's a very large vehicle.
From a thrust point of view it's about half the size of the Saturn Five.
It has six landing gears, so we have landing gear out capability that's little built-in tests.
Fins to fly itself back to the landing ship.
It's powered by liquified natural gas, as the fuel, and liquid oxygen as the oxidizers.
That's why the flame is a little bit, blue.
And the booster stage 3.85 million pounds of thrust is completely reusable and designed to be reusable in an operable way.
Very little downtime between flights, very little refurbishment.
Reputability is the absolute key.
It has to be operational reusable.
Not the way the space shuttle was.
They brought the space shuttle back and it was only reusable in the narrowest of senses.
Here it comes under, this is about to land on the landing ship.
And the landing ship is stabilized and underway while this landing occurs.
So that it can use fin stabilizers to stablize the deck.
We wanna be able to operate in heavy sea states to increase reliability.
And then this is the paled deployment, second stage.
This first version, the second stage will be expendable.
[Stephen] So this is the work worse of going to be Yeah for over decades to come. Yeah this is about a two and a half billion dollar development project and it's gonna be used for all missions you can imagine.
Right, including the moon.
Including the moon.
We're in the process of building a lunar lander right now that will land more than five metric tons of cargo on the surface of the moon.
Now you just got a big government contract.
Yeah, with the Air Force And the Air Force, and that includes defense work.
Yep.
And that's been a controversial area.
Some companies Google, you know has, had under pressure from its own employees, decided not to go into that kind of work and they even gave up a contract, the AWS is competing with he Jedi contract there.
So, tell me about your philosophy of there.
What do you think about high tech companies using the most advanced private technology to do work for the DOD? We are going to continue to support the DOD.
And I think we should, you know, it doesn't make any sense to me.
Sometimes, one of the jobs of a senior leadership team is to make the right decision even when it's unpopular.
And if big tech companies are gonna turn their back on the US Department of Defense, this country is gonna be in trouble.
So you know, it's full speed ahead. I like this country Even your own impressive employees This country is, I know everybody's very conflicted about the current politics in this country and so on.
This country is a gem.
And it does (audience applauds) It is amazing, it's still the best place in the world.
It's the place where people wanna come.
There aren't other countries where everybody's trying to get in.
I'd let 'em in if it were up to me.
I like 'em, I want all of them in.
But this is a great country and it does need to be defended.
Now you're not the only private space company, there's another one and we took the launch pad there and I know you wanted, you know I think you're first choice of a launch pad in Florida was the one where the Apollo Yeah actually went to the moon there.
You didn't get that, there was another company by another billionaire which got up there. (audience laughs) What's the relationship between Blue Origin and Space X and some of these other private companies? Yeah Well there, really isn't much of a relationship between the two companies, I mean we're competitors.
My view on this is this is a big industry with room for lots of winners.
And if we're going to achieve, for humanity, what I want to achieve, it is gonna be thousands of companies.
Just like what you see on the internet.
And so we need lots of successful companies helping out with this.
Sports is a bad analogy for business and so I encourage everybody, I know a lot of the people in this room are entrepreneurs and venture capitalists and so on.
Sports is a very damaging metaphor for business cause when you enter a sports arena, there's always a winner and a loser.
But in business, usually industries rise and fall.
And so it's just not the same.
There really can be multiple winners and there often are.
The number of, I don't like winner take all industries because your odds of winning in a winner take all industry is low.
You want an industry where there can be a number of winners.
Also, when we went to Texas there, you showed me something else you're building.
Not too far The clock From the launch sight.
The 10 thousand year clock, which I've been following for a long time.
I wrote a story about it in Newsweek almost 20 years ago.
And people mocked me saying that thing will never be built and you've embraced the project You're welcome.
and built it.
(audiences laughs) Now, why that? Why invest in something that lasts for 10 thousand years? You say you're not gonna be around for space to live in one of those million person colonies. Even the United States won't be around for 10 thousand years.
No nation state has ever lasted.
You know, civilizations will rise and fall.
There's no, 10 thousand years is such a long period of time.
The point of the 10 thousand year clock, it's invented by this brilliant guy named Danny Hillis, who I know you know.
He invented this idea way back in the 1980's and you know, had to wait for somebody to be crazy enough to build it.
But I believe powerfully in symbols and they do change thinking and the simple fact of the matter is that we have become so powerful as a species, that we can no longer afford to think short term and we do.
There's never been, we have never needed to think long term as a species and we finally do.
And so we need more symbols for long term thinking.
And I believe the clock will accomplish nothing for a few hundred years.
So we'll build it and then people will make fun of it for a long time and then once it's old people will be like, cause we honor old things and so it'll be like, wow that's a weird old thing and it'll still be ticking and they'll be like, why did they build this thing, and they'll, oh cause they wanted us to think about the long term future, maybe we should do that.
So it's got a very slow burn.
(audience laughs) Well lemme ask you something about what's burning now.
You come down from space a little and you ask a question about big tech and the problems it's having right now.
When Wired started 25 years ago we were super optimistic about what technology would do and it happened.
It changed the world and from small coming it was at the periphery it's at the center.
But now, we're finding that there's a lot of consequences that aren't so great and companies like yours are getting more scrutiny.
You talk about how you love competition but some people feel it's not competitive enough.
And you know if they need regulation.
Tell me how you're viewing this.
How you're viewing this difficult moment for technology as running one of the major, most powerful companies? Not Blue Origin yet, but Amazon in negotiating this time period.
Well, I guess first of all, I remain incredibly optimistic about technology.
The reason that we have pulled ourselves up as a species by our bootstraps is because we have continued to make technological progress And technologies always are 2 sided.
There are ways they can be misused as well as used and this isn't new.
The book was invented and people could write really evil books and lead bad revolutions with them and create fascist empires with books and so on and so on.
It doesn't mean the book is bad.
So I feel that society develops an immune response eventually to the bad uses of new technology but it takes time.
I see that right now.
I think social media is increasing unfortunately identity political, tribalism.
I think the internet in its current incarnation is a confirmation bias machine.
If you have a going in point of view and you go do some searches you find confirmation of your point of view.
If your newsfeed is showing you things, it's showing you things that confirm your point of view, by in large.
And so, having a technology that increases confirmation bias probably isn't good.
It is gonna lead to more tribalism.
And so we don't know these solutions to these problems yet, but we'll figure them out.
I worry that some of these technologies will be very useful for bureaucratic regimes to enforce their will.
And there, bunch of things are gonna happen that we aren't gonna like that come out of technology.
But that's not new, that's always been the case.
And we will figure it out.
The last thing we'd ever wanna do is stop the progress of new technologies.
Even when they are duel use.
Biotech is gonna be amazing and it's gonna save your children and its gonna cure your cancer and many other things, but it's gonna have duel use too and all of that is gonna happen.
As far as the other question about tech companies including Amazon, I think all large institutions should be scrutinized, it makes sense to me.
I think governments should be scrutinized.
Government agencies should be scrutinized.
Big non-profits should be scrutinized.
Large companies should be inspected and examined and scrutinized, it's normal.
I've been at Amazon the whole time.
I was there when it was just me.
(audience laughs) And it was a garage start-up.
I love garage start-ups, I was one.
But there are certain things that only large companies can do.
You know, you're not gonna build a Boeing 787 in your garage.
You're not gonna build an iPhone in your garage.
And so we want large companies, but we do also wanna scrutinize them.
And I preach inside Amazon with this is going to happen.
It's normal, don't take it personally.
It should happen, you wanna live in a society where that happens.
And what should you do about it? Just make sure that you're conducting yourself in such a way that when you're scrutinized, you pass with flying colors.
Thanks a lot Jeff, it was great.
(audience applauds) Thank you guys.
The Clothing of the Future Could Shift Shape With Just a Glance Body Language Expert Breaks Down How Appearance Affects Success How to Prototype a Giant Robot Mech (3/7) Exoskeletons Will Make Work Weightless Why Your Brain Confuses Colors Ewan McGregor & Hayley Atwell Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The DIY Space Suit Eve Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Silicon Valley's Favorite Shoe Company Has Some New Kicks A Look at Evernote’s Triangle Commuter Bag Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
