Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons WIRED Staff Culture Steaming Video Save this story Save Save this story Save Jupiter Communications and pseudo.com founder Josh Harris is pretty sure you want to watch him having sex. He's outfitting a semi-X-rated SoHo warehouse with webcams to prove it.
It was Manhattan's most outrageous bohemian-chic blowout, a booze-saturated salon that ran nonstop for the entire month of December 1999. SoHo painters and poseurs, gallery owners, the Silicon Alley set, media hounds and media whores, Eurotrash, rappers, ravers, and even a smattering of local politicians converged at a huge, defunct textile factory near City Hall. The building's brickwork was impregnated with a century of grime; its steel doors were layered with graffiti. Inside, though, the four-story space was modern in the extreme, freshly renovated and fitted out with a bizarre smorgasbord of exhibits and X-rated diversions. It was as if a carnival midway had been reconceived by radically libidinous techno-artists.
Guests blundered about among inflatable sculptures, blinked at flickering abstract videos, gorged themselves on free food and drink, played chess with the reigning US grand master, and test-fired machine guns under the watchful eye of a weapons specialist. A giant game of Risk was staged between artists and a team of politicians that included Bronx borough president Fernando Ferrer, Manhattan borough president C. Virginia Fields, and city councilperson Kathryn Freed. (The pols came out ahead—they were better at forming alliances and making deals.) As days turned into weeks, hardcore freeloaders started living in a Tokyo-style "pod hotel" installed in the basement by artist Jeff Gompertz. Each pod was equipped with its own video camera and monitor, so that anyone could observe anyone else at any time. Privacy was eradicated, even for personal hygiene and ablutions. The walls around the toilets were removed, and an illuminated sign blared a warning to guests: WE LIVE IN PUBLIC. The only shower stood inside a transparent geodesic dome, centrally located so everyone else could watch.
"I remember that some exhibitionistic fat guy with a really tiny penis started taking a shower while dinner was going on," says Paula Froelich, a gossip writer for the New York Post who attended the party. "The food was quite good, but I couldn't really enjoy it because some half-naked people who seemed to think they were very important kept dancing on the table." " Survivor is just a managed game show on an island," says Harris. "I'll make Warhol's Factory happen so you can get in and be there." Certainly, the party atmosphere trivialized the no-privacy theme. Still, for Josh Harris, the 39-year-old ebiz-millionaire extraordinaire who conceived, developed, and funded the monthlong extravaganza, WE LIVE IN PUBLIC was a serious experiment.
Harris does not cut an impressive figure. Slightly below average height and slightly above average weight, with a deadpan face, a generic haircut, and studious black-framed glasses, he looks like an overgrown kid who probably watches too much TV. This turns out to be close to the truth, but Harris isn't just some sitcom-addled burnout. He has carved out a place at the crossroads of ebiz and the avant-garde that is by turns irreverent, wildly eccentric, and freakishly ambitious.
Back in 1986, Harris founded Jupiter Communications, a high tech consulting company that eventually netted him more than $10 million in stock from its 1999 IPO. Meanwhile, Harris quit the straight business world to explore his real fascination: the power of new media to mold society and change the way we interact.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Harris had sampled the possibilities on a limited scale when he was running chat rooms for Prodigy, from 1994 to 1996. In rooms like Big Beautiful Women and Vampire Pub, he used the seductive powers of anonymous online text to tempt users to be far more raunchy and reckless than in everyday life. He subsequently founded pseudo.com, the first Web "TV station," which broadcasts shows with a downtown-urban flavor and themes like deviant sex, rap music, videogaming, and modern art. Pseudo also enabled feedback from viewers, once again fostering a virtual society whose mores were very different from those of meatspace.
At Harris' 1999 premillennial party, the pod hotel was another riff on the same theme: an experiment in building a new kind of community, one that was structured by electronic communication. More to the point, it previewed a future that Harris thinks is inevitable, in which high-speed Internet access and ubiquitous webcams will shatter social and physical barriers, tempting us to watch one another and to enjoy this strange new form of intimacy.
"It's already happening," Harris points out, "because people want to turn the camera on themselves. There is a pent-up desire for personal celebrity." This desire seems obvious enough, as spectacles like Survivor and Big Brother make clear. A flood of reality programming is being considered by networks and cable channels, including The Mole (in which a spy would be planted among members of a group house), Love Test (men and women in a relationship would be sent to separate resorts, where other men and women would try to seduce them), and Boot Camp (drill instructor-style abuse would be unleashed on a group of hard-hided contestants). According to a Time/CNN poll, a significant number of Americans are already primed for self-exposure: 31 percent claim they would allow a reality program to televise them in their pajamas, and 8 percent say they would show themselves naked.
Harris is unimpressed with reality programs, which strike him as a square, simplistic version of what he has in mind. "Those shows are managed," he complains. " Survivor was just a game show on an island. What I'm interested in is reality on television." Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight The premillennial pod hotel was a modest venture compared with Harris' current ambitions. By the time you read this, he will have moved on to the next phase of his experiment in privacy reduction. Staking a claim to new media territory beyond amateur webcams and professionally managed TV shows, he's planning to stage the most outrageous exercise in public living that anyone has yet conceived.
Like Marshall McLuhan, Josh Harris sees the medium, rather than its content, as the message. "When TV first came out, it had an impact like a social atomic bomb," he says. "But the mode of intimacy that I'm presenting, which we'll experience via the Net, is going to be bigger." Starting October 10, Harris is making his own life totally accessible at www.weliveinpublic.com , in collaboration with his 29-year-old girlfriend, Tanya Corrin—who demonstrated her own predilection for self-exposure when she posed naked on the cover of Nerve magazine last summer.
Harris has been fantasizing for a long time about living totally in public (most recently, he mentioned it to Inside.com). The reality, though, turns out to be more ambitious than anyone expected. Instead of just dumping a few webcams in arbitrary locations, he's having his apartment restyled by a professional set designer, and special heat-seeking cameras will track his most intimate moments with Corrin, from bathroom to bedroom. Streaming video will go out around the clock via a network of regional servers, and Harris wants the process to be interactive. He'll talk to viewers, and their responses will appear as text on monitors scattered around his living space.
"No one has done this on such an ambitious scale," he says, noting that the total cost will exceed half a million dollars. Access will be free, and although he talks vaguely about selling tapes later, he doesn't expect to make any money doing this. His ostensible motive is to learn firsthand exactly how total exposure and interactivity will change daily life.
He'll also stage oddball special events, largely for his own entertainment. For Halloween, on 154 acres he's buying in upstate New York, he'll run a "reality" version of a horror movie, which will be available online at www.luvvy.com.
 Guests will be housed in ancient huts originally used by migrant apple pickers, while professional mediums will summon spirits to haunt a nearby farmhouse. "I want people to be out in the middle of nowhere," Harris says. "Urban people, who are clueless and terrified of the country. They'll have no deli next door, and no way to escape. I may add a few parlor tricks, such as creaking noises, but basically I'll just be letting everyone's imaginations work, to create true fear in real life for three or four nights." "I could have gone into anything after Jupiter. I could have been an industrial titan!" Harris laughs. "But I didn't want to be like those guys." Meanwhile, in Manhattan, a third webcast project, cosponsored by Gleason's Gym, will involve a series of boxing matches featuring white-collar amateurs from his entourage. He has held such bouts already, starring quasi-celebrities like Anthony Haden-Guest and "my own ensemble of artists who are defining themselves as celebrities." This rouses memories of Andy Warhol, but Harris maintains that he's going one step further. "You know Warhol's famous fight poster, depicting him with Jean-Michel Basquiat? Warhol did the poster, but I'm doing the actual fight. Warhol had his Factory with people hanging around; I'll make it happen so you can get in and be there." Just point your browser to www.boxopera.com.
Later—probably in 2001—Harris plans to remake his former textile factory as a do-it-yourself video studio in which anyone can satisfy their desire for celebrity by recording tapes of themselves that will be archived online. "My current idea is to have 10 permanent sets," he says. "Very elaborate, each with its own deck recording everything. When people walk in, you give them a tape. When they leave, I'm thinking we either buy the tape back or sell it to them, depending on their rating on the social scale." Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Finally, Harris is planning to extend his living-in-public experiment by installing cameras in the homes of his friends. "Imagine: I'm lying in bed, and they can all see me, and at the same time I can see them. At that point, we will be reweaving social communication, and I will be immersed in it. If it's as successful as I hope, I'll continue the experiment indefinitely. It won't be like those people on Survivor, who have regular lives to go back to after the series ends. This will be my life." Harris is convinced that when broadband Net access becomes ubiquitous, millions of consumers will end up doing exactly what he's about to do. "Of course they're going to be watching each other," he says. "It's inevitable. Everything I'm doing will be considered commonplace, just 10 years from now. It'll be no more unusual than listening to a stereo or watching TV." We'll have to wait and see about that, but Harris is definitely turning heads, even in we've-seen-it-all Manhattan. "The Warhol comparison is probably out of line, in that I don't think Josh has created a paradigm shift in art,"says Jason McCabe Calacanis, editor of the Silicon Alley Reporter.
"But Josh has acted as a catalyst for art by injecting it with new technology. I think Josh has played everybody and goes to sleep with a very big smile on his face. In the world filled with boring technologists, he was the first avant-garde—if not insane—visionary." Harris says most of his ideas evolved in the early 1980s, when he was an undergrad at UC San Diego, majoring in communications. "I thought about it while walking up and down La Jolla beach," he says. "I couldn't explain it in so many words, but I did see intuitively how to get from there to here." He grew up in Ventura, California, the seventh child of a mother who counseled juvenile criminals and a father who was seldom at home and died during heart surgery when Harris was 15. Television was young Josh's baby-sitter, and he spent hours watching Gilligan's Island, Hogan's Heroes, and Get Smart.
He praises and blames those trashy sitcoms for molding his worldview, his personality, and his understanding of the media-driven future.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight In 1984 he was a graduate student at USC's Annenberg School for Communication. The next summer he worked as an intern for Gary Arlen, who ran a small business publishing newsletters in the emerging field of online information services. After this experience, Harris left grad school, relocated to a low-rent Manhattan apartment, and became a media/technical consultant. "I worked for IDG, the GartnerGroup—everyone in that field," he says. "Then I ripped off their best ideas and founded my own business, Jupiter Communications." To some extent he started competing with Arlen, which Arlen didn't appreciate. "Jupiter was an aggressive young company with forecasts that were way optimistic and way wrong," Arlen says, still sounding pissed about it. "Josh was flaky and dysfunctional, totally wacky and unable to sustain personal relationships. He just happened to head in the right direction and occasionally picked up on some trends." Harris also had a sharp business sense, implacable determination, and a rare talent for discovering coworkers who could realize his ambitions. In 1989, through an ad in a local newspaper, he found Gene DeRose, a 26-year-old former freelance writer. Harris bailed out as CEO in 1995, DeRose took over in '96, and, by the time Jupiter went public three years later with a valuation of $550 million, it had expanded from 12 to 260 employees.
"I could have gone into anything when I left Jupiter," he says. "I mean, Steve Case was a contemporary. I spoke to him often. I could have started my own online service! I could have been an industrial titan!" He laughs. "But I didn't want to be like those guys." "No one else on the planet masturbates in the exact way I do," Corrin says. Upping the webcam ante, she and Harris will attempt to conceive.
During his stint at Prodigy, Harris was in charge of helping the company make money from old-fashioned text-based chat rooms. On the corner of Houston Street and Broadway, in a neighborhood where garment workers toiled in Manhattan's last surviving sweatshops, Harris rented the top floor of an ancient, six-story factory building for $1,500 a month. In casual defiance of building codes and health department regulations, he started living in one corner of the cavernous loft space, with its creaky wooden floors, grime-coated windows, and tinplate ceilings. He brought in salvaged furniture and multiple phone lines, and hired a staff of misfits who had the bad attitude necessary to goose the ambience of Prodigy chat.
Among the core group was a hyperactive twentysomething cyberpunk who, online and off, called himself =JUDGECAL= (Cal for short), and sported a bleached-blond crew cut, sleeveless T-shirts, tattoos, and Rollerblades. "I had been a proud member of the food-service industries," recalls Cal, who still works with Harris. "Yes, I was a waiter. But when I got my first computer in 1993, I fell in love with the technology. I visited Josh's loft and found a lot of 386s lying around, and 2,400-bps modems. It was like, holy shit—I've arrived!" Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Harris' loft became a refuge for a decadent cadre of mooching artists. "Josh has a very eccentric passion for the arts," says Jacques Tégé, who worked with Harris at Prodigy. "He kept hosting parties, and they grew, becoming more and more bizarre. He brought in a group that did installations—environments within environments—made from inflated plastic bubbles. One bubble would focus on interactive-video mixing, another on urban fashion, another on raves. All these bubbles were connected with plastic tubes." "At first I made it a pure art house," Harris says. "I mean, why not? How often do you get the chance to do that kind of thing? The price I paid was that I had to deal with the corporate people at Prodigy." Executives at the ISP understood that they were dealing with a loose cannon who had little respect for their corporate culture. "But they didn't want to fuck with me," Harris claims, "because I was accounting for 25 percent of the total hourly traffic on their service." Harris' next project was to run a weekly talk show on WEVD, an obscure New York radio station. By this time, Cal was a fixture in the Harris entourage, helping to run the radio programs. "We would roll in an hour before the show with six-packs and bottles of wine, and we'd get trashed," he says. "We had guests like Jaron Lanier, who came on and played his oboe and smelled bad. We interviewed the digerati—people from Silicon Alley who are now millionaires. It cost us, like, $1,500 a show, and we didn't have a lot of dough; so we decided to make our own radio station with the Net as our transmitter." Harris saw that, instead of using his modems to swap text with Prodigy users, he could do live broadcasts via the embryonic technology of streaming audio. He did so, then upgraded to video, thanks to an infusion of capital—most of it from the Tribune Company in Chicago.
Today Pseudo broadcasts about 80 hours a week and has ventured into serious programming, such as nightly tech-stock wrap-ups and full coverage of both of the major-party national conventions. This appears to be a bid to transcend the downtown-radical image and attract new sponsors to help pay for overhead—which shot up when Pseudo went on a hiring spree last year and expanded into elegant new office space. Meanwhile, the production staff still works at the original loft, where the bohemian ambience lingers. Harris' chic personal assistant, Antonia Tamplin, works in an open-plan office that looks like it was furnished by hyperactive children turned loose in a thrift store. Miscellaneous desks and tables are crammed together. An antique chaise with gold-leaf paint and scarlet velvet upholstery stands beneath an Arabian tent, which hangs beside a retrofitted galvanized air duct. "Josh is totally disorganized," says Tamplin. "But he chooses to be disorganized, to free his creative mind. Underneath, there is a solid core of business sense." Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight JOSH HARRIS/CHAIRMAN/MAC DADDY/CZAR is laser-printed on a page taped to Harris' office door. Inside are signed photographs of Gilligan's Island actors and a giant glass tank for his pet tortoise, Myrtle. There are books piled on top of a file cabinet, among them Benoit Mandelbrot's The Fractal Geometry of Nature, Lizards as a New Pet, Don DeLillo's White Noise, and The Family Affair Coloring Book.
The feel is homey, though the place is usually empty, since Harris once again has become bored with the grind of managing a company. While Pseudo struggles to find more sponsors, slow its burn rate, build an audience, and turn a profit, Harris has surrendered his position as CEO, preferring to be a solo gadfly as he pursues his living-in-public experiment. He retains the title of chair at Pseudo, but receives a mere $1,000 annually, with health benefits.
To which he says, so what? Making money is not Harris' primary goal these days. He's too busy spending it.
In 1997, Harris bought a huge apartment a couple of blocks from Pseudo, renovating the space with the intention of using it as a TV studio. Halfway between the enormous living room and the huge bedroom, he installed a professional-quality control room with a mixing console that can access cameras in every conceivable location, from the street-level entrance to the bathroom. "Everything here is oversize so I can get good camera angles," Harris explains. "We'll have bedroom cams, bathroom cams ..." He pauses to rub the head of one of his cats, a calico named Neuffy. "Maybe a litter-box cam? Yeah, Neuffy says that works for her." But will it work for Harris' girlfriend, Tanya Corrin? Probably, though at first glance you wouldn't think so: She projects an image of demure, wholesome, youthful innocence that turns out to be very deceptive. "Three years ago," she says, "I was teaching myself HTML and designing Web sites. I was timid and shy, grew up in a small town, and had a baggage of inhibitions to get rid of." Apparently, she's managed that.
TanyaTV, a show she produces for Pseudo, covers topics such as multiple orgasms and foot fetishes. Corrin participated in a naked street event for an art photographer and she once videotaped her own attempt to have sex in an airplane toilet.
Harris' quest: the party's sweet spot, the "boing." "It's like, the great surfers are always seeking the perfect wave. We're seeking the perfect groove." She's quick to insist, though, that self-exposure does not equal promiscuity. "Having sex with someone other than Josh wouldn't feel right," she says, sounding prim about it. Thus, when Harris hosted an aphrodisiac party at his apartment last spring, and Corrin and crew videotaped it, neither of them plunged into the writhing mass of naked human flesh that accumulated in the gigantic sauna. "I was hosting the party," Harris points out.
In October, the voyeuristic odd couple will become the focus of their own action—which Harris views with anticipation. "I believe it will make my sex life with Tanya more exciting," he says. "Think about it: Wouldn't you enjoy sex more if you knew you were being televised?" Plenty of webcams already allow intimate glimpses into the bedroom. But Harris is upping the ante: He pledges that he and Corrin will attempt to conceive their first child on camera.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Corrin's only remaining hang-up is the prospect of being seen masturbating. "No one else on the planet masturbates in the exact way I do," she says. "It must be really weird." For a moment she looks worried; then her bouncy positivity returns. "If I go public with it," she says, "maybe other women will suggest alternatives." On a typical business day, Harris prepares for his autumn happenings in a style that seems relaxed only because it's so erratic. Having slept four hours after a poker game that lasted till dawn, he rolls out of bed around 10 am. With tousled black hair, rumpled pants, a three-day beard, and bare feet, he looks like a bum who has somehow wandered into his 5,000 square feet of maple-floored opulence.
The apartment is, of course, flamboyant. Vast canvases in the white-walled living room depict a cartoon character kneeling between the thighs of a naked woman whose body merges into a landscape. The kitchen area is paneled in stainless steel. A $12,000 ceiling-mounted TV-projection system creates a 10-foot picture on one wall, and a second projector duplicates the picture on the adjacent wall. "I like the feeling of immersion," Harris explains. "I have the same relationship with TV that a heroin addict has with his fix. They don't call it 'TV programming' for nothing." The sitcoms he watched as a kid are still an obsession. He pulls out reproductions of paintings he commissioned from an artist he met in Ethiopia. "See, this picture is of Gilligan as the Ethiopian version of Christ, with angels around him. And this one shows scenes from Gilligan's Island, rendered in that third-world religious style. I'm going to make silk-screen prints of individual frames from Gilligan episodes that I bought on 16-millimeter film from eBay." A few minutes later, Harris ventures out of his apartment. The neighborhood has gone upscale since he started Jupiter Communications almost 15 years ago. Huge billboards on Houston Street advertise Calvin Klein, Yahoo!, and Evian. Buildings that once housed garment factories now rent space to edgy dotcom startups run by ebusiness hipsters. Lower Broadway has turned into Silicon Alley South.
Harris stops in at a new art publication that needs a bridging loan to pay its printing bill. The magazine's money guy wears a neat suit and sits behind a fake antique desk, while Harris faces him wearing a ratty-looking Arafat-style cotton headband and cheap running shoes with no socks. Still, there's no question who's running this meeting. When the money guy tries a hard sell, Harris interrupts him. "I'm just a phone call away from getting you the money you need," he says gruffly. "Now let me tell you what the deal has to be." Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight After an hour of negotiations, he prevails. "This is the third art magazine I've put money into," he says, walking out $40,000 poorer. "The other two failed. Maybe this one will work." He sounds unconvinced. "If the money buys me a seat on an advisory board with the gallery owners I want to meet, that alone will be worth it." Even this has a hollow ring. The real problem seems to be that Harris can't resist putting money into art.
He continues down Broadway, past Chinese stores selling pirated videos and hot dog vendors whose carts are parked on rusty subway gratings. An ambulance sounds its siren helplessly in the honking jam of trucks, cabs, and tour buses. Harris ignores it all. He treats the big-city neighborhood like a village. On Broadway between Houston and Canal, he has everything he needs: Pseudo, his apartment, gourmet coffee stores, the SoHo art scene, Web businesses, video businesses, and pizza parlors. He accesses it all on foot.
Harris arrives at a newly renovated loft on the corner of Broadway and Canal Street, the office of Matt E. Silver, his party cohost in the early days of Pseudo. Like Harris, Silver remains addicted to staging big, potentially money-losing events, although he specializes in raves rather than inter-active video.
As the two men chat, it gradually becomes clear that the intellectual rationale for creating experimental communities isn't the whole story. Like Silver, Harris simply gets a thrill from hosting a big show. "It's like, the great surfers are always seeking the perfect wave," he says. "But for me and Matt E., we're seeking the perfect groove." "The vibe!" Silver puts in. "It's very exciting to see people gathered together. It's very inspirational." Harris nods. "You get to a party, and there's a moment in time that's a sweet spot. It's like you're ghosting through the crowd, and it just feels right. It's better than sex. At the premillennial event in December, it went on so long, I got to the point where it was like dripping morphine, the longest groove-orgasm I ever had." "Josh is eccentric. But I've watched him make money with no money. And out of 20 stupid things he might do, one great thing will happen." If that isn't clear enough, he describes another event he managed. Artist friends from Europe, who rented space in the World Trade Center, decided one day that they simply had to remove one of the huge plate-glass windows, hang a temporary balcony outside, and stand on it naked.
"It made sense to me," says Harris. "So I rented the biggest suite I could get at the Hilton, directly opposite. I invited people to show up at 11. By about 4:30 am, we're all in a zone: We're drinking a little bit, a little pot maybe, we had movies, music—one room was dark, with a bed. Around 5:30, four of us went to the heliport on the West Side. We chartered a helicopter, flew down at dawn, and circled the World Trade Center with video cameras. The artists put out their balcony, stood on it, and we got the whole thing. Then we all came back together at the Hilton. We were happy because no one had gotten caught, and we had a huge breakfast. And that breakfast was the groove. From seven till ten in the morning, we sat there, and realized, 'This is it! This is the thing!'" Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Silver nods and smiles. He's one of the few people who doesn't think there's anything crazy about Harris. "There's nobody like him," he says. "He's eccentric, but I've watched him make money with no money. And out of 20 stupid things he might do, one great thing will happen. That makes it all worthwhile." Finally, we reach Harris' former textile factory, a building on lower Broadway that he calls the Luvvyplex. The name refers to a performance-art routine in which he wears red lipstick and whiteface pancake makeup while referring to himself as "Luvvy," in honor of Mrs. Thurston Howell III, the dotty rich lady on Gilligan's Island.
Harris claims to be "fairly serious" about his Luvvy persona, which he sometimes adopts while staging happenings. Supposedly, it dramatizes the power of a sitcom character to manipulate human feelings and actions. But Luvvy also functions as that most time-honored tool of a showman, the publicity stunt. Since very few multimillionaires dress in drag and even fewer organize X-rated group entertainment, Luvvy is a way for Josh Harris to be noticed.
He opens the street door of the Luvvyplex, steps over a heap of black garbage bags that smell of stale beer, and enters an enormous white-walled space whose floors have been refinished with a weird, black, rubbery, industrial-grade coating. On New Year's Eve, when this space was packed with a sweaty throng, Harris staged one of his most extreme Luvvy routines. Five couples on mattresses attempted to reach orgasm in public, while Harris, in his Luvvy get-up, roamed around like a circus ringmaster, supervising the show.
"Boing!" he announced into a handheld microphone wired to a repeat-echo box.
"Boing-oing-oing-oing," the loudspeakers shot back.
"It was very simple," Harris explains now. "I was looking for the universal cosmic vibration, the 'boing' of psychosexual energy that we know and feel but can never touch. The same as in an online chat room, where you can never quite get off." He leads the way downstairs to a basement, then to a subbasement, where he is subsidizing a handful of European artists who sleep and work in claustrophobic cubicles fashioned from bare Sheetrock.
In a back room that looks like an abandoned garbage-collection area, German artist Nico Haupt lurks in the dimness. A cheap electric fan wafts air from a defunct freight-elevator shaft to the desk where Haupt creates computer videos.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Haupt ran the first RealAudio server in Germany, and staged the kind of publicity-seeking art events that Harris finds irresistible: a stunt, for instance, that called for 6 million unemployed people to jump in the ocean simultaneously, causing it to flood the home of former chancellor Helmut Kohl. "Only 200 people came," Haupt says. "But there were thousands from the press!" Hoping to work at Pseudo, Haupt flew to New York and met Harris at one of his many parties. "He talked to me only one sentence," says Haupt. "He said, 'Move in.'" To Haupt, this seemed normal enough. "My profession is always to work with eccentric people, because I myself am also eccentric." He collaborated on the premillennial event, and hopes to help develop the Luvvyplex. "For me it is a mixture of Brave New World, Big Brother, and Lord of the Flies.
Sometimes fascistic—that is always the danger of the Internet, because there are people who want to control everything, and it provides an opportunity for them." "People in the art world all understand what I'm doing," says Harris as he climbs the stairs to return to the basement, where the massive silk-screen printing press is housed. Beside it, a movie projector is being used by some of his employees to transfer old Felix the Cat cartoons to video.
OK, but are Nico Haupt and the other eacute;migré artists doing usable work? Harris pauses. "This is a very inefficient organization," he says, in a rare attempt to be diplomatic.
Some large paintings have been moved in on the top floor, but the boxing ring hasn't been installed yet, and there's no hint of how the place will eventually look. "I'm as curious to see it as you are," Harris says.
This may sound evasive, but it reflects Harris' method of working—throwing ideas at people around him, then choosing from among their responses, relying mainly on intuition. "Karma," he says, "is knowing you're on the right track, and doing it. Everyone has a path they're supposed to be on. If it doesn't feel right, I just stop." "Karma is knowing you're on the right track. I'm trying to get my seedling into a bigger pot. After that, it's leverage, leverage, leverage." Does he believe he's planting a seed? "I did that last December. Now I'm trying to get my seedling into a bigger pot. After that, it's leverage, leverage, leverage." Since the Luvvyplex will tend to attract an art-scene crowd, there's an obvious comparison with New York clubs like Area and Limelight, which became socially exclusive and hugely popular in the 1980s. Harris acknowledges the similarity, but claims to abhor it. "I know people who run clubs in New York," he says. "They can sense something developing here, and they want in on it. But it's so far from their business model of luring people to go to a through and drink alcohol, I can't bring myself to talk to them. I mean, clubs are stupid. There's a lot of loud music—it's just not elegant." Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Harris' payroll, rent, taxes, and other expenses at the Luvvyplex currently add up to more than $600,000 a year. The silk-screen press, which has already cost $220,000, isn't getting much use. He expects that setting up the boxing ring will cost him at least $225,000.
"Most wealthy people just waste their time making more and more money," he says. "I'm one of the few who really understands how to spend it." Even so, the mounting costs are a cause for concern, since Harris has no source of income other than his $1,000-a-year salary from Pseudo, plus stock options and dividends. "After I started Jupiter and it was a huge success, my banker friends decided that I must be crazy like a fox. Now," he says, smiling ruefully, "they think I'm just plain crazy." He surveys the vast, empty space, and for a moment he seems weary. "I come in here, and it's like, 'Oh, fuck, I feel too old for this.'" Then the moment of doubt passes. He believes his new ventures will be a success. Some, he says, may even turn a profit. "I'm sure that people will pay to use the services that this puts out, because I know that I am giving people something they want." Perhaps more important, he's giving himself what he needs. As he paces the empty space, he mentions that an artist typically wants not just to be appreciated, but to be remembered. This may be the most profound of Harris' many motives: He would like a place in posterity.
"Six hundred years ago," he says, "during the Renaissance, if you wanted to make a painting, you had to mix your own paint. Well, now we're entering a new renaissance, in interactive video, and I'm taking the first steps, performing the first experiments. The tapes I make will be the first of their kind." If this sounds a bit grandiose, it's still not Harris' ultimate dream. Having read Hans Moravec's seminal book Mind Children, Harris believes that the human race will, within the next century, begin to replace itself with intelligent machines or human-electronic hybrids. "We're in the midst of an evolutionary shift," he says, "creating our own demise. I'm recognizing this on a personal level. By living in public, I may be achieving a kind of personal immortality. Two hundred years from now, if they want to re-create a human being from the year 2000, there'll be so much material about my life, they could make a virtual replica of me, indistinguishable from the real thing." Harris doesn't celebrate this imminent transition he foresees, nor does he want to hasten it. "I want to guide it," he says, after a long moment of thought. "I want to leave artifacts, reflections, and beauty to our inhuman descendants. The idea is to be conscious that we're doing it, make it beautiful, and deliver it in machine-readable code to the next guys." Beauty, he says, is key.
That, and the groove.
Topics magazine-8.11 Jason Parham Steven Levy Amanda Hoover Jennifer M. Wood Jason Parham Angela Watercutter Jason Parham Elizabeth Minkel Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
