Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Po Bronson Business Gen Equity Save this story Save Save this story Save Descend into the valley of riches. Feast on the nourishment of hope. Start up a tech company and sell it.
By car, by plane, they come. They're just showing up. They're giving up their lives elsewhere to come here. They come for the tremendous opportunity, believing that in no other place in the world right now can one person accomplish so much with talent, initiative, and a good idea. It's a region where who-you-know and how-much-money-you-have have never been less relevant to success. They come because it doesn't matter that they're young, or left college without a degree, or have dark skin, or speak with an accent. They come even if it's illegal to come. They come because they feel they'll regret it the rest of their lives if they don't at least give it a try. They come to be a part of history, to build the technology that will reshape how people live 5 or 10 years from now. They come for the excitement, just to be a part of it. They come to make money, to score big. They come to make enough money so they will never have to think about money again.
They come too because what they see ahead of them, if they stay behind instead, is a working life that seems fundamentally and unavoidably boring. Nothing seems worse than the fate of boringness. They keep finding themselves saying, "What the hell am I doing with my life?" Every generation before this one has had to make a choice in life between pursuing a steady career and pursuing wild adventures. In Silicon Valley, that trade-off has been recircuited. Injecting mind-boggling amounts of risk into the once stodgy domain of gray-suited business, young people no longer have to choose. They've turned life into a two-for-one deal: the career path as roller-coaster adventure. Working has become nothing less than a sport. Here in superachieverland, people are motivated by the thrill of the competition and the danger of losing, and every year the rules evolve to make it all happen quicker, on higher margins, to reach more amazing sums.
It is a mad, fertile time.
Let's up the bet, they're saying. Let's make it exciting. Let's put it all on black. Let 'em roll.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight On a Friday afternoon in January, Thierry Levy is standing in the aisle at Internet Showcase in San Diego, a smorgasbord of startup concepts pirouetting and curtsying to a crowd of trigger-happy investors. He is one of only two foreigners to have been invited, but this morning Thierry had totally botched his presentation—his business model was not yet glued together; his pitch, unhoned. He had no idea what he was doing up there. But now he knows this: An edgy attitude is an insufficient substitute for professional expertise. His plane home to Paris is scheduled for a 6:20 p.m. departure.
His mind is seized. He can't stop thinking that this very moment his fate will forever be decided. I can stay here and I may or may not make it, or I can go back and I surely will never make it, and I will regret it the rest of my life. His gut boils with panic. Nobody likes having to choose on the spot, but in the land he comes from, the phrase French entrepreneur is considered an oxymoron—and he wants to be one. Thierry tells me about a poll he remembers reading in a Paris newspaper: What is the most moral way to achieve wealth? Inheritance walloped entrepreneurship, 70 percent to 20 percent.
Thierry thinks of what his father used to tell him, "In America, if you grew up poor, it's something to be proud of. It is a badge of honor. You say, 'Hey! I started from scratch!'" Thierry grew up poor. His father had been in the French Resistance, his hometown liberated by American soldiers. He had always said of America, It's the Place Where Heroes Are From.
Thierry borrows someone's cell phone to call the airline and trades his return ticket for one to SFO, where he arrives at Gate 22 of the South Terminal at 11:10 in the evening, one suitcase in hand. He is wearing blue jeans and a green polo shirt. He's done it. Now what? His first instinct: to see Silicon Valley. To feast his eyes on this golden land of opportunity.
From Thrifty he rents a Geo subcompact and motors south on Highway 101. Burlingame. San Mateo. Redwood City. Atherton. Menlo Park. Then just before Palo Alto, the Santa Clara county line. It's raining. He is expecting something like the Great Wall of China, some demarcation line indicating that he is here. He gets off the freeway but finds only suburbs and low-slung office parks, occasional fluorescent lights still illuminating some workers' windows. So he gets back on the freeway. At the next exit, it's the same thing. No place to celebrate, nothing to toast to, no sense of arrival.
It is dark and wet and too flat to offer a sense of place or direction: Hey, I am HERE! I, Thierry Levy, am HERE! The Valley takes no notice.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Eventually, he finds himself on a road called the Great America Parkway. He's excited to be on such a road but confused by the grammar—Great American Parkway, yes? There is nothing particularly great or particularly American about the parkway. He doesn't know where it's taking him, maybe Sunnyvale.
A Silicon Valley manifesto: Get lean, get stripped down. Focus. One Snickers bar daily, one jackoff, one Dilbert cartoon.
At 1:30 a.m. he checks in to a Days Inn, taking the last room for $79. The TV doesn't work. He has two glasses of water before he climbs under the bedspread and attempts sleep.
Thierry has 70 more days before the tourist stamp on his passport expires.
On the other end of the line there's a voice, and a chummy talker I'll call Michael Zilly tells me that yo, he'll be moving on out from Massachusetts next week. He says Silicon Valley is "phat" and "quite excellent," and he calls me "homeboy." He wants to do Silicon Valley, all of it. He wants to soak it up. This includes (along with snowboarding and meeting mall girls) being a kick-ass entrepreneur. He has hammered together a cardboard-thin featherlight "keyboard" that uses touchscreen technology rather than plastic keys, a superportable typing accessory designed to be plugged in to Palms and other PDAs. He calls it the SupraNova, a cryptic reference to Naked Lunch.
His hobbies are running up hills and smoking dope. He listens to Ice-T, Body Count, and Parliament. He says we'll hang. We'll check it out. "Where's the party? Where's the girls? Where's the fish?" We trade some emails, which he signs, "Keep on rockin' in the free world." He needs to raise $80,000 in the next three months.
A hub for the newly arrived, the Café Bean is on the respectable fringe of the Tenderloin District in San Francisco. Its clientele: primarily internazionale slacker-tourists staying at nearby residential hotels, where $297 a week buys a bed, a shower, and a hot breakfast. If they show up at the Café Bean more than a couple of times, or if they have a particularly sweet smile, or if they offer a bit of conversation in an English that is comprehensible, the counter girl will snap their Polaroid and staple it to the photomosaic that climbs the walls, documenting the revolving Café Bean family. The place is every bit as friendly as a communal hot tub, and not much bigger. It spills onto the sidewalk, a river of youth and hope and anticipation.
Interspersed with the coffee mugs and ashtrays on the small round tabletops are clues to the travelers' lives: maps of the city, Amtrak passes, money belts, joint papers, BIC lighters, stash tins, language dictionaries, and, on one tabletop, in front of a young man with men's-mag style and buzz-short hair dyed brassy blond, an Apple Newton with its snub-nosed antenna pointed to the sky. The man says his name is John Foster but I should call him David. There were too many Johns at his last job, he tells me, but in my mind John's alias becomes another indication that he is starting a new life.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight He introduces me to Nora, Kiersten, Michele, and a few other nymphs whose names I don't get. They call him David, so from here on, I will too. As he and I talk, the girls one by one take their leave, each one planting a parting kiss somewhere on David's face.
His face is pale, providing high contrast to his buggy blue eyes and deep red lips. He's a bit of a lounge lizard, a hip-hop fop. He's swaddled in a heavy black wool overcoat and his shoes are silver buckled, with cap toes, the black leather well cared for. "I trust anyone until they give me a reason not to," he says, as if in response to a question, but not one I asked. He's in sales.
David jumped ship on a 40-person ecommerce software company in Salt Lake City when it wasn't fun to be a part of anymore. He got here four days ago. This is the place to be. He has a job with an ecommerce software firm with about 15 employees. His starting salary is a mere $21,000, plus options and a highly leveraged incentive clause. A few minutes later he says that in order to make the company more profitable and attract investors, he is forgoing his salary entirely, and the company will just be paying for his living expenses, primarily the $1,475 a month for his studio apartment across the street. He's eaten pancakes for dinner four nights straight.
I ask why he doesn't go get a job at Netscape that might pay better.
"Look, for programmers, OK, being a college dropout, that's a badge of honor. But not for sales, OK? A college degree is proxy variable number one, OK? So if a firm is big enough to have a human resources department, they won't hire me, OK?" OK.
David lasted only two weeks at college. In high school, he was so depressed over his mother having died of cancer that a psychiatrist prescribed drugs for him. The drugs, David says, shot his pulse rate up to 220 and induced a mild heart attack. Afterward, he would sit dumb in class, looking conscious but mentally blacked out. He was rescued by computerized music—MIDI boards and mixing software. But the only way to get the high-end computers he needed cheap was to become an authorized reseller himself. His life as a wheeler-dealer had begun.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight David cherishes being the battle-worn salesguy nurturing undiscovered programming talents. He is 27. His new boss is 23. It's a romantic role to play. All his fast talk is an act; underneath, he's a sweetie. He's got a know-it-all's tongue but an idealist's heart. In my notebook, I give him the nickname The Man Who Trusts Too Much.
David's incentive clause: If he brings his boss $500,000 or more of investment capital or revenue, he tells me, he gets a $100,000 salary. Anything less and he gets only his expenses paid for.
I'm on my way out of a party on a Saturday night when I glance up and see a face that is vaguely familiar, plastered with a merry whiskey grin, perched on a high stool that is tipped back against the wall. I had met this guy three years ago when he was in town for a convention. Back then he was based in Knoxville, Tennessee, and he had loudly trumpeted the notion that in the telecommuting age one could work anywhere.
"Another convention in town?" I ask.
"Nope. Moved. Been here a week already." Already.
This guy's first week's experience has given him plenty of meat to satiate his hunger for broad social observations. He's flip-flopped on the telecommute theory because there's no substitute for the cultural immersion that occurs off the job. He's torn between whether the appropriate über-metaphor for Silicon Valley is the gold rush or Florence during the Renaissance; in other words, does the enthusiasm come from all the new money or all the new media? Money or art? And then, if it's the gold rush, he self-debates whether it's the Sierra Nevada rush of 1849 or the Alaskan Klondike rush 50 years later. In the midst of all this, I ask him if he happens to have a job.
He says sure but he doesn't think he'll last there, it's just a gig, and he's looking for something that takes more brainpower. He started looking the morning of his second day on the job.
A few days later this guys put me in touch with a friend from his Tennessee days named Scott Krause. Scott and I go for some lunch at the Slanted Door in the Mission District. Scott is a human resource manager's wet dream. He's a modern-day Hardy Boy; he wears jungle pants cut off at the knees and a yellow plaid Bermuda shirt, untucked. He's 27 and has an MBA from the University of Tennessee and says right out that he wants to build the technology that changes how the world lives and works. I don't hear this kind of idealism very often anymore; it's like Scott has time-traveled here from 1994. It's a plain-vanilla idealism, perhaps the sort of earnest viewpoint that can develop only in the heartland of the country—where they know absolutely nothing about what it's really like in the Valley. I give it three months, and then, like an accent, it'll disappear.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight "If I'm going to work 70-hour weeks, I might as well do something purposeful," he says buoyantly. In the meantime he lives kitty-corner from here in a top-floor one-bedroom apartment that he shares with a roommate. When he first got here he had the impression a great job would fall into his lap. After six weeks of looking the first time, he got impatient and took a job with Intershop Communications, supposedly, he said, to do "business development." But that turned out to mean cold-calling for the telesales division. After a while, he couldn't convince himself anymore that this had anything to do with changing the world.
What matters to Scott is finding work he can love.
"Look, For programmers, OK, being a college dropout is a badge of honor. but not for sales, OK?" At 10 o'clock Michael Zilly is supposed to hook up with a man named Henry Silva Jr. who might invest that 80 "G-large" Zilly needs. They are supposed to meet at the Big Brother & the Holding Company poster in the front lobby, which is where we're standing.
"There's no turning back," says Zilly.
It is another one of those many nights in San Francisco where the late 1990s wants to see itself through the Day-Glo Technicolor prism of the late 1960s. The party is at the legendary music hall the Fillmore; under framed posters memorializing the great performances here of Hendrix and Morrison, today's new media elite (and the men who fund them) have packed the joint elbow to elbow to see, well, each other. There goes Tony Perkins—oops, you missed him, now he's behind that pillar. And over by the bar, isn't that Jerry Kaplan? The '60s/'90s thing is working fine with Michael Zilly, who is buzzed on Mary Jane's reverie. He hit town yesterday and is "happy campered" on his homeboy buddy's couch in Fremont. Zilly's clothes make the statement: catalog shopper. Boat shoes with raw leather laces, a coarsely stitched button-down, and pleated wrinkle-free khakis. He's 5' 10", with blunt milk-chocolate hair, brown freckles, and stone-gray eyes so deeply set that his brows cast his eyes in shadow. Though he's only 29, he has a white skunk stripe sprouting from his temples. He talks in an incomprehensible dialect, a chunky gumbo of snowboarder reggae mumble and high tech's pissing-contest dot-com jargon.
"New business is pop culture, is it not?" he says, soaking in the scene.
I'm getting a floating-in-space sensation. This grab bag of cultural references has overloaded my brain. Nothing here seems to have made up its mind what it is.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight We mingle. I pick up on a pattern with Zilly. He's shy around women, unless the woman is shy too, and then he's suddenly a fast talker. Zilly heads up to the balcony, where some Web sites are showcasing their latest features. One of the girls working the Match.Com dating-service booth is plain looking and, like a deer in headlights, particularly shy. She arrived only last weekend on a bus from New Hampshire.
She's 22, just graduated from Plymouth State College, and she's here to see, "you know ..." Zilly: "Hey, it's the place to be, is it not?" "Yeah ..." "Yeah for me too." She's been staying at her aunt's house in Santa Rosa, which is an hour north of San Francisco and a longer way still from the heart of Silicon Valley, but she can't afford the deposit on an apartment. She got tonight's gig through a temp agency, for which she will net only $10 an hour, but she's hoping to meet someone who might hire her.
Henry Silva Jr. never shows, but Zilly does meet a middle-aged woman who is so sucked into new media's whirlpool that she doesn't know whether Rolling Stone magazine still exists in print form. She invites Zilly to a salon in the East Bay that Saturday to discuss why new money doesn't give to charity. There will be nine new-moneyed men sitting around her living room, Zilly speculates, trying to tell her that they'd rather invest in startups than donate to modern art museums or Unicef. Technology is modern art. Technology will save the world.
"And I'll be the tenth man, sitting there ready to accept their money," he says. "Mission Impossible continues." Mission Impossible refers to the extreme nature of Zilly's venture. For the last two years, Zilly funded his startup by growing ganja in the swamps of western Massachusetts and selling it wholesale. He didn't deal. In ROTC at UConn he had learned about night vision, camouflage, and concealing his tracks, all quite handy skills for this ambitious entrepreneur. On Memorial Day weekend, he slushed into the marsh at night carrying highly evolved organic sinsemilla seedlings and 80-pound sacks of peat moss. The terrain was so wet that there was little foliage to block the sun. He built a little peat island, planted his 10-inch seedlings, and erected camouflage netting. Ninety-six nights later, on Labor Day weekend, he harvested 40 pounds (at $4,000 a pound) of God's gift to man, the healer of all aches, the drowner-out of voices, the key to living in the moment. All of that profit (except what he needed for mandatory twice-daily "quality control") has been invested in two part-time engineers, who built the SupraNova prototype.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Giving up that life and coming out here is not a sellout. It is not like giving up one's noble ideals and deciding to make a killing in real estate. Here he's continuing the adventure, maybe even ratcheting it up a notch. Having a BS, an MBA, and part of an MS prepares a guy for an exotic career track.
But Zilly came here because he'd like to wipe his darker past from his résumé. And the experience may be invaluable. If the metric of success in Silicon Valley is one's willingness to throw oneself into situations most people would feel are out of control, then Michael Zilly should be a paper millionaire within 12 months. This is his strength: risk taking.
"Are you lost?" asks the postman, seeing me unable to decide whether to get into the elevator.
"I'm looking for Quiz Studio," I say.
"Haven't heard of that one," he says, going up.
Backtracking, I believe, along the labyrinth of hall-ways, I find the suite number.
"Hello?" I try, tentatively, opening the suite door.
The walls smell of the new coat of paint, white. The carpet, chemically refreshed. The six empty beige cubicles purchased from the previous tenant have been stripped of any decorations that made them personal, and the whiteboard in the conference room has yet to see ink. A jungle of unspliced white phone lines drapes from cubicle to cubicle.
The only office occupied so far belongs to the founder, Thierry Levy. He moved in this morning. It's been four months since he arrived from San Diego that rainy night. On his desk rests a laptop, beside it a cellular phone, and stored on the cubicle shelf are a tub of protein powder, a carton of Ultra Slim-Fast packets, and a half-case of bottled water.
I imagine a manifesto for Silicon Valley today: Get lean, get stripped down, live on nothing. Bare bones. Focus. Be a fighter. Ration yourself daily one Snickers, one jackoff, and one Dilbert cartoon. Forget about love that nourishes. Forget about food that satiates. Forget about long conversations that only get good in the middle of the night, when that third bottle of wine gets uncorked. Forget about poetry: the whisper, the leaf, the tuck of hair. Forget about politics: the bilingual-ed revolt, the dams diverting more water south.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Get ready for ultracapitalism.
"No, when I make my first 20 million, forget about it," says Thierry.
"Forget about it?" I ask.
"Forget about it." "You won't be here?" "No, I'll go home. Maybe here in small doses only. Those people you write about—they make 20 million, and it is not enough for them. I am not greedy like them." Thierry has obtained a visa, under which he can stay for 10 months as a "visiting executive" as long as he's officially employed back home in France. (His official employer in France is also himself.) Without an American credit record, he had to pay three months' rent in advance for this meager office. His software, Quiz Studio, is a drag-and-drop tool for Web developers to add interactive quizzes, surveys, and questionnaires to Web pages, or to build Web tests. It has broad uses in worker training and in education. If he can get certified 100 percent Java by Sun Microsystems, he figures Sun will plug him in to the venture capitalists. Ten months to prove himself, and the change will either happen or it won't. This is his strength: perspective.
When Thierry was 22, he spent a year in East Berlin managing the construction of a factory. That wasn't long enough to get anything done. In East Berlin at the time, it took 14 years of waiting to purchase a car. It took 15 years just to get a phone line. That was the old adventure—go abroad, help the needy. This is the new adventure.
"Here is the opposite," says Thierry. "The only value system is money." I hear a note of defensiveness. I hear fear in his bravado.
This is what particularly scares him: Thierry went to a crash course recently on starting a business. They told him that perception is everything. They gave him three principles to live by: marketing, marketing, and marketing. Thierry can't afford a VP of marketing until he gets venture money, but he also hears that VCs will never give him money without a VP of marketing.
Thierry's paying $1,050 a month to rent a room in a woman's house in Menlo Park. Though he lived in motels until he found a room, it did not take him long to get his bearings here. He has found the all-night gym, the 24 Hour Fitness in Mountain View. He stays buff. His blue jeans can't disguise the muscles in his legs, and his forearms show a pulse. Thierry's not just a pecs-and-quads guy; you can see the muscular balance in his physique. He's one of those guys who separately works out the anterior, medial, and posterior heads of his deltoids. He has less fat than an unflavored rice cake. He's ready for the ultracapitalist fight. He is armed with an undergraduate degree in engineering and an MBA from one of the most prestigious business schools in France. His most valuable possessions—practically his only possessions—are his Rollerblades and his road bike. He doesn't mention friends.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Such spartan indulgences. At Safeway, he can buy Barilla spaghetti, the same brand he would buy in Paris, in the same blue-and-red box, $1.25 for 16 ounces. It makes him feel at home. "I fit right in," he says, and I think he's right, but I don't know whether that's swell or sad. He says that when he gets venture capital financing—when he gets rich—he's going to move up to the real stuff, DeCecco brand pasta, twice as expensive at a bank-account-draining $2.50 per box.
"Three months, come see me maybe," he says. "I'll be boiling DeCecco." Money here is puppylike, untrained. it's greedy, sure, but people give money just to be a part of the excitement of the deal.
At night, after another 14-hour day, Thierry hits the weights. The strong will survive.
At the bar in the Stanford Park Hotel, I strike up a conversation with a Taiwanese-American accountant who tells me about a guy he knows. The guy started a karaoke club in Taiwan, but didn't want to do what he'd have to do to succeed, and has come to try life in the Valley. I'm instantly interested in the question of which is a more ruthless place to do business. The accountant promises to put me in touch with the guy.
Now, I'm trying to get the guy, Ben Chiu, to tell me about what he got into in Taiwan. The information's not going to come without a certain level of trust, so I ask a lot of questions about his background. Ben is wearing the exact same thing as his three employees: brown leather saddle shoes, dark hard jeans with the ankles cuffed, black belt with silver buckle, and a short-sleeved black polo shirt. He's 27. He has the slightest of freckles along his broad cheekbones. His forearms are scarred with faint horizontal slashes, like ladder steps, running from his wrists to his elbows.
It takes a while for Ben to understand that I'm interested in him, not in his technology. He's not used to anybody caring about his life story, and when he finally gets it, he goes "Ohhh," and walks out of the room. We're on the second floor of a tilt-up hidden amid a few monkey-tail pines in the marshlands of Fremont. (Tilt-ups are ugly buildings constructed in the Valley in the '60s; rather than being poured into vertical frames around windows and details, cement was poured out in flat slabs and then "tilted up" to make the vertical walls of the building.) The bay is two miles west of here, but at low tides you can smell the stagnant mud.
Ben comes back with an artist's portfolio. I open the pages.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Inside the book are photos of his wild-animal paintings—rams and bald eagles—done in painstaking detail. Every feather or hair is rendered. The paintings are stunning, near photo quality. Each one, hours of work. Ben's strength: attention to detail. "Anal, huh?" he says, a little embarrassed.
"You do these recently?" "Not since I moved here." "How about dancing; you go dancing?" "I used to go every night. In Taiwan. But not here." "How about karaoke?" "Oh, sure. I still do that." "When?" He can't remember when.
Is he sapped, is he worn out? He'd prefer to think his "creative energy is now channeled into his company." Ben was born in Taiwan but grew up in Toronto. When you graduate from college, you're supposed to spend a lot of time thinking about who you really are so that you can answer the question of what you want to be. Ben didn't know who he was, so he went back to Taiwan to find out. There he started some clubs. One would get hot for a while; then he'd start a new one at the first sign that the old one wasn't the scene anymore. Always one step ahead of the hipness.
It sounds a lot like the Internet business. But in Taiwan, all business is based on guanxi —relationships. Having great ability, a great club, great style, wasn't enough to make it big. Ben worried that in the end the only way to get ahead was to know the right people. The "right people" would instruct you on how to make the right payoffs at the right times to "the black and the white"—the organized element and the cops. If you didn't know the right people, you didn't even know who you were supposed to pay off, or when.
Ben came here hoping to get away from that. He arrived without any friends or contacts, but has gone back to Taiwanese companies for investment capital, and he believes the Internet will be a level playing field. His KillerApp is a price-comparison shopping engine—if you want to buy a new computer you can go to his site and find out whose price is cheapest. Ben built the code himself. His days are 18 hours long. He still doesn't have any friends, not really—only business acquaintances.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight He walks me out to my car. It's hot enough to melt the asphalt into that freshly-laid-tar smell. We rehash what we've already said. I get the feeling Ben doesn't want me to leave.
Julie Blaustein became obsessed with getting out here before it was too late. At one point back in Boston, her job was to organize medical conferences, but she wanted to get into high tech sales. She met a doctor who put her in touch with a friend at a startup in Redwood City. She accepted a job offer sight unseen and moved west.
"My mom says instead of going to Hollywood to become an actress, I've come to Silicon Valley to be a ... a ... well, whatever grandiose term we might call it." "A salesperson," I respond.
"Yeah. I guess." We are drinking in a microbrewery in Redwood City.
"Sales is the way to go for a nontechnical person," she adds.
If you want to get to know people, Julie is a shortcut on two or three degrees of separation all by herself. She doesn't just knock on doors, she knocks them down. Through the friend of the husband of a woman she worked with two years ago, she got an interview at Yahoo! with a guy who introduced her to Netscape programmers she plays ultimate Frisbee with. She's also interviewed at Infoseek, Sun, and Ziff-Davis, and as a temp she's worked at Oracle, E*Trade, and Cisco. She has a great feel for the Valley after just four months. "I'll interview for anything," she says, figuring it's good practice. Of all those places she's seen, where she'd really like to work is Yahoo! But no job offers. Headhunters look at her résumé and tell her she looks like a job-hopper. They ask if she lacks stick-to-it-ness. Most headhunters and recruiters earn their fee only if the candidate hired stays on the job for a specified period. They won't even look at the résumés of job-hoppers. Julie says she's a prisoner of her ambition. She's thinking of creatively editing her résumé, but she knows she really should just sell herself for what she is and be proud of it.
"When I find a job that's right, I'll have plenty of stick-to-it-ness, I think." Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Julie has a buxom bombshell figure, big auburn hair, high cheekbones, and almond hooded eyes, though she is a sort of Cubist rendering of herself. One eye is higher than the other; a tooth is gray. Julie's not quite what you think she is when you first see her. This is because what you first get is her voice: Bostonian vowel sounds remixed and digitally remastered by an early '80s Valley Girl. Lispy and sweet toothed. In those interviews, I'm sure it's a deal killer. Julie is a lot sharper than her accent conveys.
Silicon Valley is not quite what you think it is when you first see it, either: You can have skin of any color and be from any country and have any disability or sexual orientation, et cetera, but if you're white and educated, it's fair to hold all sorts of prejudices against you.
Julie is at the bottom of this food chain, and she treats others in similar spots kindly. Several nights a week, she goes to the public library in Redwood City to mentor a kid who needs help reading and writing. Her dream is sung in a minor key, but she's pursuing it every bit as fiercely as an entrepreneur. She dreams of moving to the City.
John/David Foster wanted me to meet his 23-year-old boss, Kevin North, who also brought along his wife. They're sitting on a couch in the lobby of the St. James Hotel, near Café Bean, and John/David is playing the butler/host, making sure our beer glasses are full. Kevin left college after a year and a half to start this ecommerce company, eFree. Aside from offering Web design and hosting, the company provides ecommerce capabilities like shopping-cart software. Like Kevin, his father was an inventor, with 28 patents, including one for a motorized toilet-paper dispenser. Kevin gets most of his "idears" squatting on the can. His wife nods enthusiastically: "I'm always having to go off and get a pen and paper for him." That he has a big brain hasn't kept Kevin from being a hick.
"It's a natural thing to be bought. Every entrepreneur knows when it's the right time." David interrupts. He's selling, now. The audience for this pitch may be as much himself as me. He's watching his boss tell a journalist about his crapping routine, and David needs to remind himself why this isn't silly. "You know what's different about eFree? It's real. Real people, and real money. So much of business here is vapor. You get a concept, you run some ads, you score easy money. It's all show. Our company isn't bleeding. We have $3 million in revenues. We're profitable. How many 20-employee companies in this industry can say that?" Of the 1,000-plus companies that run their Web sites using eFree's software and services, a large number are overseas. Because foreign banks are wary of offering merchant accounts to Web ventures, eFree has a division, eFree/Global, that works with clients to set up transaction capabilities and takes a cut of the action. Global takes the online shopper's credit card, gives the 3 percent cut to Visa, takes a 5 to 10 percent cut for itself, and wires the rest overseas. The profits from Global flow into eFree. That's how eFree is profitable. The business has a rock-solid base, since so many overseas companies are porn sites and porn is not going away.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight I ask David how the $500,000 is coming. He's negotiating with a bank in Los Angeles. He says adamantly, "It's going to happen." I'm worried about Michael Zilly. He blew off the salon, because that seemed so ephemeral. Now he's smelling out the wrong kind of money.
Here's what he doesn't understand about this place: Nobody has gotten used to their money yet. It's as if everyone's wearing an overly fashionable new five-button jacket, and they all feel awkward and uncertain. So they're prepared, at the slightest self-consciousness, to take the jacket off.
Valley money, particularly angel money, doesn't always seek out the highest return. Money here is puppylike, untrained. It's greedy, sure, but it has all sorts of peripheral motives. People give money out here just to be a part of the excitement of the deal. They're in because their friend is in. They're in because they think your product is important. They're in because it's spicy to have something at risk. They're in because you asked and they like you and they don't know how to say no. People here will invest in your startup simply because watching you struggle is more entertaining than going to the symphony.
Zilly and I confer briefly by email and phone, and one day he gives me a full update. Since I last saw him, he hooked up with the Fillmore-party no-show, Henry Silva Jr., who turned out to be not an investor but rather an investment scout who takes a finder's fee. The rest unfolded like dime-store noir. Silva Jr. put Zilly on a plane to Washington to meet a man named Mark Conegan, who turned out to be what is called a "Beltway bandit," lending money at short-term high (but legal) rates to government contractors low on cash who are awaiting congressional appropriation funding.
Conegan proposed to give Zilly the up-front money Zilly needed to manufacture the SupraNova if—and only if—Conegan could manage simultaneously to prearrange a bulk buy of SupraNovas on the back end. This was money Zilly trusted—when everyone was in for a cut.
Zilly and Conegan shook hands on a number: $500,000. But Conegan didn't come through with the advance sale, and so his cash never showed.
Zilly had trouble on the manufacturing end too. The SupraNova's magnesium keypad material created magnetic interference with the touchscreen overlay, and the microcontroller chip's customization was kept on hold for a long-delayed chip upgrade. The project was derailed. Zilly wouldn't talk much about how this made him feel. I just didn't hear from him for a while.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight A little later, when his mood has recovered, he can say, "What's up? I had an excellent winter licking my (psychic/financial) wounds, chasing chicks, and snowboarding. I had a monumental season (40 days) and picked up some decent moves." One catalyst for his recovery of mood is a job offer from a man named Paul Jain to join his startup. Paul Jain, I happen to know, has been indicted on 27 counts of violations of financial fraud with his last company, Media Vision Technology. The Media Vision fiasco was the big event campaigners used to push California's Proposition 211, making it easier for stockholders to sue.
I can't help but warn Michael Zilly that his old dope-growing hobby and his startup flameout were, on the grand scale of things, merely cute adventures that he could put behind him, chalk up to youth. But to get in deep with Paul Jain was, in my opinion, to risk not being able to turn back.
All of this makes it just that much more edgy for Zilly. He takes the job.
Just like in LA, where everyone has a screenplay, in Silicon Valley everyone has a business idea. Or a business proposition. Or a "value proposition." It's their little secret. "Something with intelligent agents" is about all they'll say, which usually means they haven't thought it through, or they have the idea but don't know how to make money off it and don't need you to scoff at them. Or they'll be name-droppingly cryptic: "It's WebTV meets RealNetworks." And they're always this close to a $20 million payday.
John/David has two ideas this week. They are X and Y. X is a 10-cent-per-lead shopping referral service. Y is a chat-based live online help service. Next week X and Y will be something else. We are at the Café Bean, which is the only place I could find David, because when I dial his cell phone, it's not in service.
"You've got to learn to roll with the punches," he says. "Yesterday, I had one day to rewrite our entire business model. But I did it. Hey, that's what it's like here." What happened yesterday? "ICentral got bought by Open Market for $10 million." I remember that ICentral is the ecommerce company in Utah that David left a few months ago when he stopped having fun. In leaving, he abandoned his stock options. He won't tell me how much money he would have today if he'd stayed in Utah. I'm confident it's a smallish figure that wouldn't strike anyone down with envy, but David is 27 years old, forgoing all salary, and he can't even use his cell phone.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Nevertheless David is psyching himself up. His strength is optimism. "You know," he says, "if ICentral was just valued at $10 million, that's great for eFree—we're worth at least twice that." In the next few months, this wishful thinking proves to be a reasonable prediction. Intershop is already listed to go public in Germany and now ICentral has been bought, and suddenly the crowd mentality sweeps the market. This is how it happens. Suddenly every search engine thinks it needs to incorporate electronic shopping into its site, or at least that it needs to send a message to the stock market that this is what it intends to do, and the best way to send a crystal-clear message is to acquire an ecommerce software firm. Everyone and their best friend suddenly get rich.
The other catalyst for the buying spree is that search-engine stock prices have risen to stratospheric highs. All these acquisitions are stock-swap deals. It's sort of like when the currency-exchange rate of the US dollar to the Mexican peso suddenly shifts from 1:3 to 1:8, and the San Diegans zip down to Tijuana to get drunk on mescal for next to nothing. One month it would have taken Yahoo! 800,000 shares to buy a company it thinks is worth $50 million. The next month it can get the same company for 450,000 shares, and it can't afford not to save that kind of money.
David's voicemail messages are punchy with euphoria: "Yahoo! just bought Viaweb for $49 million! Excite will be the next to move!" I almost missed it: nobody gave up. no one went home. their appetites had only been whetted.
"The big lions are out hunting. They're buying up the gray area. I've got a meeting with LookSmart tomorrow." Now, confident, he'll tell me what he missed out on at ICentral. He had 300,000 options, which would have been worth about a hundred grand. "But I'm going to blow that figure away," he says. "That will be peanuts." He's on his way to Manhattan to meet with the vice president of Prudential Securities' investment arm. They are discussing a possible acquisition at a valuation of $25 million. Some real money is about to get shaken loose.
"Not just any old VP I'm talking to. This is the guy, the VP of the whole VP department." The next month, when Intershop goes public riding this ecommerce craze, I have lunch again with Hardy Boy Scott Krause. Intershop was the company he quit after a couple months because it wasn't challenging enough.
I ask Scott about this near miss with sudden wealth.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight "I don't think about it," he says.
"As in, 'I avoid thinking about it,' or as in, 'It's just not on my mind'?" "I've got the best job now I've ever had," he asserts.
He's been working at the search directory Infoseek for the past couple months.
His project is "a side-bet venture, with the potential to fundamentally change the way that search engines interact with people," and then, in case that's not emphatic enough, he adds, "I'm contributing to something that has historical implications." Oh, come on. He's the human press release. Do they put Prozac in the pizza at Infoseek? I suspect a psychological adjustment going on—nobody wants to admit they made a mistake, so they find a compensating factor, such as "historical implications." But Scott is so earnest. Maybe I just don't want to admit I was wrong in predicting the demise of his idealism. Maybe my perspective is off. He remains a mystery to me.
I ask him what his project is.
"I can't tell you. It's a secret even within Infoseek." It's a gorgeous summer day in the Inner Sunset District of San Francisco, and we are eating lunch at P.J.'s Oyster Bed on Irving Street. Julie Blaustein is telling me about her friend who made it big in the radio business. In order to be a success, this friend had to network so furiously—it was hard to get to know the right people—that she became very shallow.
Julie doesn't want that to happen to her when she succeeds, though it's my impression that it might be a while before Julie has to worry about success going to her head.
In the meantime, Julie got a job selling Web sites for CitySearch. Her area is the Sunset, which means that Julie, who has big hair and that lispy voice, has to cold-call all day long on Chinese laundries and Chinese construction-material suppliers, trying to convince them that they need a "Web presence" or they will be left behind in the 20th century. A previous rep had already worked the territory over and picked the low-hanging fruit. Every day she checks in at the CitySearch headquarters, and there is a freshly updated chart pinned to the corkboard showing each rep's results. Julie's made only three sales.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Meanwhile, though, CitySearch filed to go public in the summer. An online hodgepodge of laundry addresses and restaurant menus is not quite the same as ecommerce, but it's close enough for Wall Street. "It'll be exciting just to go through the process," Julie says in the same way that famous baseball pitchers say, upon signing their new free-agency contract, "I'm just in it for the love of the game." OK, now I finally understand why she's talking about how she will handle success.
I'm having drinks at the Stanford Park with a group of all-around guys in the 25-to-35 demographic. This is an organization called Round Zero, its name a euphemism for the mill grist and sweat equity that goes on before venture capitalists swoop in with rounds one, two, and three of financing. The group's members are still young enough to regularly pull all-nighters. There's a drinking hour before the dinner, but most attendees are holding Diet Cokes, served in highball glasses and dolloped with a maraschino cherry. Dinners are semistructured debates. The main point of the monthly salon is to tone your postcollege intellectual muscle.
Over by the bar I see Ben Chiu.
"You're out making friends," I say.
He has a big, happy grin on his lightly freckled face, a sparkle in his eye, a boldness in his posture. There's more to this than finally making friends.
"I can't talk about it," he says, which is by now a term of art, nondisclosure-agreement code for "I'm in negotiations." In saying it, he gives me the hint I need.
I crunch on recent news and put it together. Last month there was a buying spree for ecommerce software companies. This month there is a buying spree for the next piece of the portal puzzle, comparison-shopping engines, such as Ben Chiu's KillerApp. Amazon.com bought Junglee for a reported $180 million. Infoseek bought Quando for $17 million. Inktomi spent $90 million on C2B, which won't even have its beta ready until January. KillerApp is in their league, easily.
Internet World magazine ranks KillerApp the most efficient Internet site for shopping.
Ben is sanguine. Tactfully, he negotiates the words: "It's a natural thing to be bought. It's not selling out, really. I've had this vision for a few years, and slowly the rest of the market has begun to value what I've done at the same level that I value it. When that happens, when you get offered what you know you're worth, then every entrepreneur knows it's the right time." Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight He's 27 years old. I ask him what might be next. Next, meaning his next project—does he have an idea? "A whole queue of them," he says.
"The Cellular One number you have called is no longer in service. If you feel you have reached this recording in error, please check the number and dial again" is what I hear when I dial the mobile telephone number for John/David Foster, just a few weeks after he was expecting to sell eFree.
"You have reached a number that has been disconnected or is no longer in service. If you feel you have reached this recording in error, please check the number and try your call again" is what I hear when I dial what was the West Coast office of eFree.
Two days later I get email: "I met you through John at Chalker's a few months ago. You may know him as David. The reason I'm writing is to inquire about John's well-being. I've tried reaching him by email a couple of times since—to no avail. Is he OK? Thanks—Mark" Michael Zilly sends me email: "It seems premature to write about my adventures in California, because nothing has come to fruition." It is the first email he has ever sent me that is not signed, "Keep on rockin' in the free world." We talk on the phone and make arrangements to go see the granddaddy of reggae, Bunny Wailer, at the Maritime Hall, another San Francisco rock-and-roll landmark.
This revisiting of the '60s trip feels even more forced than it did the night I first met Zilly at the Fillmore, mostly because I know Zilly's trip has been a bummer. He left Paul Jain's company after a couple weeks, but now he's out of a job, and though he's plenty talented, he can't put down on his résumé either that his startup fizzed out before round one or that he worked for Paul Jain. There's a big hole in his story. He doesn't know what he will say when recruiters ask him, "So what have you been doing the last year?" Zilly's thinking of taking a class to be able to pass a Cobol certification exam, which will qualify him to be hired on as a $35-an-hour "implementation consultant" with one of the many Y2K-conversion firms.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight He's down to his last month's rent.
"I had a most excellent winter, licking my financial wounds and snowboarding." On a Thursday night in August, I bump into Julie reading Business Week at a bookstore on Van Ness Avenue. She's wearing a checked sport coat. Her voice is different, more sultry; she's ironed out the accent. Then she says it's just because of her sinus cold. I ask her how events at CitySearch have played out for her. When the market tanked recently, the company canceled its IPO and instead merged with Ticketmaster Online. There's no jackpot, Julie explains, just more pressure to come through with revenue.
"What a rat race!" she says. She complains about cold-calling and what she sees as bad management. She says her job "isn't feeling like a good fit." She's looking for "a window out." These are phrases she learns in Business Week.
What she means is she's unhappy.
More specifically, she says, she got a new sales manager. He used to be a knife salesman. Some of the tactics he's using to light a fire under her include threatening to put her on probation for not making what she argues is an unrealistic quota, even though she has milked several $2,400 deals out of tiny shops in a poor neighborhood.
"Because of the job-hopper image," she reminds me, when I ask why she doesn't take a new job. Julie's been at CitySearch for only five months. She has to give it a little longer.
"I'm all confused now and really don't know anymore." I decide it's about time to go have some pasta with Thierry Levy, but it turns out he's off food entirely. He's switched over to the Apex nutritional system, powdered substances laced with amino acids. Unlike Ben Chiu, who seemed to be making a go of it last time I saw him, Thierry still has no friends, no social life. He's bored, bored out of his wits, so bored that he cannot even work very hard anymore—too distracted. "It's a very lonely society here," he says. He calls America the Country of the Clean Cars, which is a far cry from what his father called America, the Place Where Heroes Are From.
When he came here, he got the impression that everyone was successful. Now he quotes statistics: Of every thousand business plans sent to venture capitalists, six are accepted. Of the six companies based on those plans, four will go bankrupt. Only one will go public. Among those 9,994 rejected business plans is the plan for his Web-quiz software. He made a strategic mistake. He sent it out asking for $2.5 million, and was told by the venture capitalists that they only want to fund projects at the $5 million level. They didn't look twice at his business plan. He's rewritten it now, but he's used up his "eyeball time." "I shopped the deal," he admits. "I sent out too many of the first business plan." Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Once a month, he goes to an informal meeting of French executives. This is his only hope. At one meeting he even met Jean-Louis Gassée, one of the early Macintosh visionaries.
Thierry says he's realizing he doesn't have the practicality of Americans, their marketing savvy. Americans go to college, take out a student loan—that's training for the Darwinian world. "As an entrepreneur, you experience a lot of rejection. Ninety-five percent of the time is rejection. You must be able to take a lot of beating. The French do not have that much guts. They give up too easy." He knows that there are angel investors who are willing to fund startups his size, but he has no idea how to find them. "There's a knife at my throat. Sometimes I get really, really scared." He has four more months of cash left before he is broke.
I need some good news, so I call Ben Chiu. He doesn't have any. He says, "The window is still open," but "we're missing windows too." Sometimes, when you're young and it's the first time some big company comes knocking on your door to talk about an acquisition, you can't tell if it's for real. Maybe they were just there to size you up before bidding on your competitor.
Ben has corresponded with Broadview and with a stock analyst at Morgan Stanley. But he says that in order to be acquired, you need "name-brand VCs." You need to have well-connected investors like Kleiner Perkins or Draper Fisher Jurvetson. It's guanxi all over again. Connections.
Originally, Ben felt his story would be inspirational for other young entrepreneurs. Now he says, "Maybe I'll be the first founder to drop dead of exhaustion. That should make a great motivational piece, huh?" John/David has turned up. On his way East to meet with Prudential, he stopped at eFree's offices, where he discovered the company was in crisis. By the time he returned, his phone was cut off, his rent hadn't been paid, and his possessions were in the hands of his landlord. John says his boss, Kevin North, the 23-year-old kid who comes up with his "idears" on the toilet, hadn't paid the rent. Kevin says John just disappeared on him.
As it turned out, eFree had bit the bullet and stopped doing business with porn sites. Unfortunately, with the big sale of the company in sight, they were running out of money. Kevin urged his employees to hang in there, but they blew up when they discovered their health insurance had been canceled. He was fending off creditors and begging friends for money. If he had lasted another month, he might have sailed through the eye of the needle, selling out to Prudential and paying back his creditors. Instead, Kevin had to let go of most of his employees.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight David says several things.
"I'm not only unemployed, I'm out millions of dollars." "That little fucker." "I'm thinking of writing a book about how not to get screwed." I take heart that David is still a big talker, still prone to sweeping generalizations. He hasn't lost his attitude. I think of one of the first things that David ever told me: "I trust anyone until they give me a reason not to." David doesn't have the two grand in back rent he needs to get his stuff out of his old apartment. If it gets any worse, he'll have to sell his Newton.
I've lost contact with all the newcomers—all but Ben Chiu. It's been so much easier to hear about how Ben was on the verge of millions than to hear the others' struggles. Ben has stayed his course, adding consumer-electronics purchasing and considering bringing music sales to KillerApp. His company has doubled in size to nine employees. He talks about how "going public might still be the best option" and says, "Look for me on Nasdaq in 18 months." His attorneys recommend he get a personal financial adviser, and they refer him to a man who by chance also advises Jerry Yang of Yahoo! and Marc Andreessen of Netscape/AOL. This guy is Ben's ticket to guanxi. The adviser introduces Ben to the mergers-and-acquisitions bankers at BT Alex. Brown, who are able to revive the interest in his company, KillerApp, when the stock market rebounds. I am privileged to the negotiations that follow, but under the condition that I not reveal the various parties until an outcome is finalized.
The negotiations feel as hectic as a sports-tournament ladder with home and away matches. Ben receives a soft offer from a television/Internet media company, which Alex. Brown parlays into a second soft offer from that company's even larger competitor. Alex. Brown then parlays this interest into informal negotiating sessions with 3 of the top 10 Web portals, and Ben is flying off to Seattle and Boston. Within a month, Ben has five major companies poking him with a stick and has conducted a technical due-diligence session, while another spate of mergers takes the industry by storm, which continues to alter the playing field.
Success is so seductive! I had set out on this journalistic expedition to remind the world of the other five pilgrims you never hear about, to record the cold truth of fate. But I was swept along, needing good news, wanting to believe that it was possible to come here and make good.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight But in falling out of contact with the others, I almost missed it: Nobody gave up. Nobody went home. Everyone's appetite had been only whetted.
In the fall, Julie Blaustein was thinking of getting out of sales, saying, "I don't function by number." Then she was called in for an interview by one of CitySearch's competitors, GeoCities. She suspected the interview was just a ruse to glean information about how CitySearch's sales effort was organized, so she gave very hesitant answers to the questions about territories and quotas. Her distrust was unfounded; their interest was real. Someone finally recognized her go-get-it-ness. After three interviews she was given a job earning a higher commission than she'd earned at CitySearch.
Then, they held a sales conference in Vegas. She'd always wanted to work at Yahoo!, and while she was in Vegas she got her wish: Yahoo! announced it was buying GeoCities.
Now Julie is talking about buying a place to live in the City. Maybe I've just gotten used to her intonation, but when she calls, I take in what she says without noticing how her voice sounds. For me, the accent is gone.
"Maybe i'll be the first founder to drop dead of exhaustion." John/David Foster was so low he called me to say he sold his Newton, his last prized possession. "I can't even buy groceries," he told me. "For once in my life I have no answers." But David didn't know how to be a quitter. He didn't know how to be pessimistic. He couldn't help himself.
Two days later he called again. He'd formed a new consulting business called Empatheia, offering business development to small startups and established companies. Rather than charging hourly fees, he would take a retainer and a cut of the deal.
"It comes from my distaste for what I saw. I'm tired of the guys who make it on the backs of other people. Everybody deserves their shot, and that's what I want to make possible. I don't want other entrepreneurs to have to go through what I've been through. I want them to have an advocate they can trust." Now he shows me the business plan, and when I wonder if he can survive long enough to sign up clients, it turns out he has already signed three—InterClient, Brooklyn North, and Deskgate. This last company already has a meeting scheduled with Excite, through an acquaintance of David's who returns his phone calls. All this, in 30 days! When you hit a big creative vein, it happens remarkably fast.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight I think John/David has found his purpose. He wants to plug the small entrepreneurs in to the deal flow. He wants to be a connector. Within a week, he has ramped his staff up to eight. He is his old self, gung ho, brazenly confident. "Since I take a cut of the revenue, all it would take is one deal and I could be at retirement level." Scott Krause always seemed to me to be the most representative of the conventional pilgrim experience: Have an MBA from a good school, get a good manager-level job at one of the big Web portals, make a bundle on your options, and have the privilege of saying that money is not the motivation.
I kept waiting for the wrinkle in that best-laid plan, but it never came.
I bump into Scott on the street outside my gym, and he invites me upstairs to Infoseek's San Francisco satellite office, located on the third floor of the old Hamm's brewery. He can tell me at last what his secret project was—it had been killed at beta phase, just before launch.
Here is my chance to hear about his defeat and aggravation, but no. He is unshakable. I probe for signs of glumness, but Scott is still frustratingly buoyant. He's been reassigned to a new product that won't go online for another six months to a year. I'm confused by how he can suffer a failed launch without a scar. But Scott's father is a steamfitter, repairing boilers for a public school district. Coming from that kind of background, just to be in Silicon Valley working in the Internet space is insanely heady stuff.
"I tell my dad how much money I'm making and it's just unbelievable to him." (During Scott's first year there, Infoseek stock climbed from 16 to a high of 90.) "I remember when I was back in Tennessee. Just over a year ago. I was so ready to come out here. I dreamed of it, but I never thought that dream would actually come true." He is awed. "I got to work at one of the most prominent companies, on one of the most cutting-edge products." Thierry Levy had gone to a resource center for software developers in San Jose and met two business consultants who have advised him to sell his Quiz Studio technology. A company that has some market muscle, they argue, will have a much easier time introducing his new product. It makes more sense to sell the business than to grow it himself.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight I have to ask: Thierry used to say he would leave the Valley once he'd made his $20 million; if he sold his company, would he stay? It is a philosophical question, but he answers it literally: "If I sell the company, it is customary for me to be asked to stay on for two years." "There's a knife at my throat. Sometimes I get really, really scared." Thierry shares his diary with me. In his impressionistic prose poems, the sky is gray, bridges are gaunt silhouettes, office buildings are marble bunkers. His eye notices earthquake ruts and derelict gas stations. He longs for a road on which he can drive that is at a high-enough elevation to give him the perspective he fears he has lost. He does not understand how Americans retain such unshaken confidence in the face of the chaos. To him, we are slightly robotic in our relentlessness.
"Californian secretaries drive their spotless Hondas to work with the utmost application. Their business letters are as flawless and predictable as an IRS form." Thierry told me he had 30 days before he would be selling his clothes, but 30 days later he is still answering his phone. He can't make Friday's payroll, and office rent is due Monday. The same day, as CEO of his French company, he will have to file as insolvent under French bankruptcy code, he tells me, even though he doesn't have any creditors hounding Quiz Studio.
But in the meantime, he has also managed to keep his coders forging ahead, completing a new version of Quiz Studio, which he has announced via press release and posted on the company Web site. This new rev solves the incompatibility problems between Sun's Java and Microsoft's Java, and it has been featured in several trade magazines. The press attention helped one of the consultants arrange meetings with Macromedia, Isometric Technologies, Oracle, and Knowledge Universe.
Thierry has also been introduced to Mario Rosati of the law firm Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, a preeminent law firm in the Valley. Rosati is in a position to play a role much as the financial adviser—his ticket to guanxi—has done for Ben Chiu. Thierry is now connected.
These prospects for a sale, Thierry says, are bright enough that one of his original French funders has invested another $150,000 in expectation they'd make it back in the sale.
He has another six months to pull it off.
Michael Zilly invites me to meet him on a certain bench beside a certain fountain on the Peninsula at 4 o'clock on a Friday afternoon. The fountain is a water-driven sculpture, a 25-foot-tall bronze man slowly hammering the air.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight When Zilly arrives, he has a much hipper look about him. His hair is brush cut, his jeans jet black, his shoes boxy black leather loafers with chunky heels. He's got a chinburn ear to ear. He still has a bit of a stoner's hush to his voice, but his eyes are clear.
Zilly passed the Cobol certification exam. Properly credentialed, he became a contract worker, a full-time temp, on call for a Y2K-service firm. After two months at one location, he was moved to one of the most respectable and professional firms in the entire Valley, where we're meeting today. The fountain feeds into an artificial lake, big enough to froth up in whitecaps on windy days. The campus's 12 glass-and-brick buildings that surround the hammering-man fountain are beautiful monuments, particularly so in a valley of ugly tilt-ups.
A couple weeks ago, the company decided to end the service firm's contract and handle the Y2K conversion internally. They asked the five existing implementation consultants for their résumés. Zilly had a moment of panic. Then he fudged it. It worked. The company hired him as employee number umpteen thousand, with full bennies. The badge he shows Security as he enters each building is now laminated plastic, rather than flimsy card stock.
He's found that he really likes working here, in the warm corporate bosom of a treacherous industry. "The people here are whip-smart. They get the job done. The company has its act together." As a Y2K implementer, he gets to wander around rather than be stuck on one floor in one building. Even here at a computer firm, everyone has computer problems, and he says, "I've met maybe half the people who work in buildings 1 through 8." He is still taking risks where he can. Last week he took his accumulated life savings, $4,000, and bought stock in a company whose share price was at 2, meaning it was on the verge of being delisted. He believes it will go up, but in the meantime it's somewhere less than 2.
Despite the apparent bedrock stability of the company he now works for, management still creates an atmosphere of transience. To have lasted here three years is a long time. If you last five years, you're awarded a six-month sabbatical. Few come back after that. Workers come here to get the seal of approval on their résumé, to be properly trained in sales or in management.
To last three years is a long time. After five, you're awarded a six-month sabbatical.
That's what Zilly wants. The way the Mafia launders money, Zilly will use this company to launder his résumé. Once he's worked here it doesn't matter where he worked before, sort of like getting your Stanford MBA after doing your undergrad at Foothill College. "After a year or two here, I can get hired anywhere. Anywhere in the world." In the three hours he and I roamed the campus buildings delivering laptops to distressed workers, Zilly fixed himself no less than four gourmet espressos. He was becoming a connoisseur, able to discern small qualitative differences between the espresso machines on every floor in every building. There is a dark-bottomed outdoor pool overlooking the Dumbarton Bridge, and Zilly swims in it every single evening. Zilly riffs on the quality of the water: not too much chlorine, not too bracing when he first jumps in.
The grand mystery for cubicle dwellers here is what life is like in the new buildings, 11 and 12. Though 11 and 12 look exactly the same to me as 1 through 10, there is this grass-is-greener envy sustained by the security badges—you can't get in without the correct one. Employees project onto 11 and 12 like they're some Oz, assuming that since they're new, they must be better. A friend of Zilly's just moved her office up to the third floor of 12. She's been brushing him off ever since.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight We go see her. She brushes us off.
"Let's check out their refrigerator," Zilly says. We go to the third-floor kitchen and rifle through the cabinets. "Look at all that Diet Coke," Zilly says. "It's not even cold." He opens the refrigerator. "Look, no Dannon yogurt. Not even any malted milk balls. They're hosed here." Zilly wants to try out their espresso machine, but he can't find it. He spends several minutes searching, then concludes it just hasn't arrived yet. "That's inhumane to make people work without an espresso machine on their floor." In mid-March, I go to see Ben. I catch him at a moment when the negotiations are complete and the merger documents halfway signed. He has sold KillerApp to CNET for "somewhere north of 50." As in $50 million. And the portion of the company he owned prior to the sale—that is, how much of the payday was his? Also somewhere north of 50. As in 50 percent. He is stressed and giddy at the same time, goofy, apologetic, sweet, buying me a Pepsi from the vending machine.
Four nights later, the official announcement is made. The worth of Ben's cut of the half-million shares of CNET is more than $23 million.
The next day, I call him one last time. "I didn't know what hit me," Ben says. He was walking on air. Yet the day he found out about the merger, he didn't do anything special to celebrate. He didn't have anybody to celebrate with.
"There was nobody waiting in the wings for me, to give me congratulations," he tells me. His parents were more relieved than overjoyed.
But Ben, he's overjoyed. His thoughts jump from memory to observation to not-fully-considered conclusion. He is trying to get used to his new situation. "When I got here," he tells me, "I didn't know a soul. Every venture capitalist on Sand Hill Road turned me down when I went for money." He tries again. "It's so easy to lose faith," he says. Nothing he says seems enough. This is the closest he gets: "The entrepreneur's life is not balanced." PLUS Up with the Valley Topics magazine-7.07 Steven Levy Steven Levy Peter Guest David Gilbert Aarian Marshall Brandi Collins-Dexter Will Knight Matt Burgess Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
