Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Marah Eakin Culture Mission: Impossible—Dead Reckoning Is the Perfect AI Panic Movie Mission: Impossible—Dead Reckoning Part One 's main foe is an all-powerful, all-seeing sentient AI that must be stopped by Tom Cruise's Ethan Hunt.
Courtesy of Paramount Pictures Save this story Save Save this story Save American action movie villains have always acted as a sort of paranoia litmus test, capturing a snapshot of the particular anxieties plaguing the country and its citizens at any given time. During the Cold War, movies like From Russia with Love , Rocky IV , and Red Dawn nodded at the public’s fear of wily Soviets, ostensibly hell-bent on ruining the capitalist way of life. In the 1990s and ’00s, with the Red Menace long forgotten, movies leaned heavily on the awful “bad Arab” trope , pulling their villains from the Middle East. Other recent smash-’em-ups have made bad guys out of rogue spies , shadowy cyber terrorists , and self-interested arms dealers , all common players in the global news landscape.
Stage Left Will Bedingfield 46 of the Best Films on Netflix This Week Reboot This Will Bedingfield But for Mission: Impossible—Dead Reckoning Part One , out this week, writers Erik Jendresen and Christopher McQuarrie (who also directed the movie) made their big bad—known as The Entity—out of a slightly more amorphous fear: that of an all-powerful, all-seeing, sentient AI. It has access to anything with an online network and can use those evil techno powers to manipulate everything from global military superpowers to a grandma with a gun. It’s everywhere and nowhere at once, and although the movie uses Esai Morales’ Gabriel as The Entity’s henchman, he’s a mere mortal—albeit one with access to all the information and decision-making logic the world’s strongest supercomputer has to offer.
While the “man vs. machine” trope is nothing new, the idea of a sentient AI coming to take over humanity feels especially prescient and pressing in 2023, when ChatGPT is writing term papers and companies are tasking AI-imbued bots with everything from listicles to tech support.
 The looming threat of AI-generated content is a big sticking point for the striking members of the Writers Guild of America too, with many wanting to ensure that any new contract they sign includes provisions for how—or whether—studios can use the technology to create scripts.
Of course, Dead Reckoning was written years ago.
Part One was originally scheduled for release in the summer of 2021, before Covid-19 threw a wrench in the movie’s production calendar. McQuarrie and company simply stumbled into great timing with the movie’s current release date, which comes about six months into America’s newfound obsession with generative AI’s perks and perils and just weeks after Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer announced a major congressional push toward AI regulation.
 Fears of AI’s inevitable takeover are hot right now, even if (or because) the vast majority of Americans don’t know the first thing about how it could actually happen.
Perhaps that’s why The Entity works as a villain, even if the way the movie personifies it with swooshing graphics and eye-like optics is a little hokey. Most moviegoers have only had brief dalliances with AI, perhaps through a few minutes spent probing ChatGPT or some backyard BBQ conversation about how Bing’s chatbot went rogue and encouraged a New York Times reporter to leave his wife.
 There are gaps and technological leaps in how The Entity operates—and a convenient-ish kill switch in a sunken submarine buried under Arctic ice—but none of that really matters if you’re just a schmo looking for something new and mysterious to fear.
What’s more, AI is a fairly innocuous foe. In an era when action movies can’t just craft a villain from some othered nationality, ethnic group, or fringe political organization, a sentient and speciously evil computer will likely only offend the most adamant of AI defenders, a significant portion of whom already concede that the technology could cause humanity’s extinction.
Dead Reckoning—Part One has to become a global box office smash to make its $290 million budget back, and having a faceless foe that basically the whole world can spit at is certainly a step in the right direction.
Maybe Mission: Impossible ’s Entity is just the harbinger of the future for action movie baddies.
Both Heart of Stone and The Creator —which drop in August and September, respectively—feature AI foes hell-bent on global destruction. Humanity will no doubt prevail and endure in both those and Dead Reckoning —at their core, action movies are feel-good romps, after all—but in the meantime, millions of moviegoers can come together, bonded by their fear of what’s to come.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight You Might Also Like … 📨 Make the most of chatbots with our AI Unlocked newsletter Taylor Swift, Star Wars, Stranger Things , and Deadpool have one man in common Generative AI is playing a surprising role in Israel-Hamas disinformation The new era of social media looks as bad for privacy as the last one Johnny Cash’s Taylor Swift cover predicts the boring future of AI music Your internet browser does not belong to you 🔌 Charge right into summer with the best travel adapters , power banks , and USB hubs Topics Movies mission impossible hollywood artificial intelligence Kate Knibbs Gabrielle Niola Angela Watercutter Amanda Hoover Angela Watercutter Amit Katwala Angela Watercutter Elana Levin Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
