Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Don’t Freak Out Over Google’s AI Beating a Go Grandmaster. It’s a Good Thing About Released on 03/10/2016 Computers have beaten us at our own games.
Checkers, Scrabble, Jeopardy.
But there is one game that a computer could never beat.
Go.
Inside the Four Seasons hotel in downtown Seoul, Google is trying to change that, by challenging one of the world's top Go players, Lee Sedol.
Go is simply put, complex.
In chess, there are twenty possible moves per turn.
For Go, it's about 200.
Go players base moves on what the board looks like, how it feels.
To win, a machine must reproduce the magic of human intuition.
AlphaGo's system uses deep neural networks, which approximate the web of neurons in the human brain.
Basically, if you feed it enough Go moves from the world's Grandmasters, it can learn to play Go, and play it well.
This contest tests the progress of modern AI, and measures its potential to rapidly reinvent everything from internet search engines and digital assistance, to robotics and scientific research.
No matter whether the machine or the human prevails, it's still a win for Google, and the future of Artificial Intelligence.
A future where machines can truly teach themselves to improve.
CES HQ 2021: Artificial Intelligence in American Defense SB 100 - Coming Soon for Artificial Intelligence? Coaching Football President Barack Obama on How Artificial Intelligence Will Affect Jobs WIRED25: Ethical AI: Intel's Genevieve Bell On Living with Artificial Intelligence WIRED25: Sebastian Thrun & Sam Altman Talk Flying Vehicles and Artificial Intelligence WIRED25: Kai-Fu Lee and Fei Fei Li On What's Next for Artificial Intelligence What the AI Behind AlphaGo Teaches Us About Humanity Google Chromebook Pixel First Look: Google Reveals New Version of Google Lens Review: Google Pixel 4A Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
