Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts The owner of WeChat thinks deepfakes could actually be good By Karen Hao archive page Ms Tech | Artbreeder, Pixabay The news: In a new white paper about its plans for AI, translated by China scholars Jeffrey Ding and Caroline Meinhardt, Tencent, the owner of WeChat and one of China’s three largest tech giants, emphasizes that deepfake technology is “not just about ‘faking’ and ‘deceiving,’ but a highly creative and groundbreaking technology.” It urges regulators to “be prudent” and to avoid clamping down on its potential benefits to society.
The examples: Tencent listed five examples of what it perceives as beneficial applications of deepfake technology that already exist or could soon exist today: For enhancing TV and film production.
 The technology has already been used to let deceased actors appear in new movies, such as Fast and Furious 7 , and could be further developed to create body doubles for stunts and other purposes. It could also be used to automatically generate voice-overs in different languages to increase the global distribution of movies.
For personalizing entertainment.
 As the viral app Zao showed last year, deepfake technology can be used to face-swap users into movies or video games. It could create a new genre of hyper-personalized entertainment.
For improving e-commerce.
The technology is already being used to generate virtual models of different body types and ethnicities, as well as to let users digitally try on clothes for a more interactive online shopping experience.
For creating realistic virtual avatars.
It has already been used to generate three-dimensional digital humans to perform as virtual pop stars and TV anchors , and to bring historical figures into virtual reality. It could also be combined with computer vision and natural-language understanding to create smart digital assistants capable of natural interactions.
For helping patients.
Finally, the technology has shown potential for helping those affected by chronic illness. For example, it has allowed people who have lost their voice to ALS to communicate by using a deepfake of it.
Why it matters: Tencent says it’s already working to advance some of these applications. This will likely spur its competitors to do the same if they haven’t yet, and influence the direction of Chinese startups eager to be acquired. As a member of China’s “AI national team,” which the government created as part of its overall AI strategy, the company also has significant sway among regulators who want to help foster the industry’s growth.
Any concerns? Tencent acknowledges that deepfake technology can cause harm, particularly in its use for face-swapping people into pornography.
 But the company is forcefully optimistic that it “will not topple society’s truths, much less pose a threat to the world order.” Of course, that’s easy to say for a company that stands to benefit significantly from the technology’s commercialization.
hide by Karen Hao Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 Zeyi Yang How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Deep Dive Artificial intelligence This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI The tool, called Nightshade, messes up training data in ways that could cause serious damage to image-generating AI models.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 With just a few minutes of sample video and $1,000, brands never have to stop selling their products.
By Zeyi Yang archive page Driving companywide efficiencies with AI Advanced AI and ML capabilities revolutionize how administrative and operations tasks are done.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page Rogue superintelligence and merging with machines: Inside the mind of OpenAI’s chief scientist An exclusive conversation with Ilya Sutskever on his fears for the future of AI and why they’ve made him change the focus of his life’s work.
By Will Douglas Heaven archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
