As "http://www.theguardian.com/technology/2014/feb/22/robots-google-ray-kurzweil-terminator-singularity-artificial-intelligence\">Ray Kurzweil speaks to the Observer New Review about the impending advances in artificial intelligence , it seems a good time to heed the warning of such screen classics as Alien, The Terminator and Blade Runner and look back at the rogue computers, robots and replicants that have brought death, disquiet and destruction to humankind. Enjoy, before it’s too late The Guardian - Back to home News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show More News US news World news Environment US politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA NHL F1 Golf Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money What term do you want to search? Search with google Support us Print subscriptions US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Facebook Twitter Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing Killer robots in film – in pictures Killer robots in film – in pictures Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share via Email As Ray Kurzweil speaks to the Observer New Review about the impending advances in artificial intelligence , it seems a good time to heed the warning of such screen classics as Alien, The Terminator and Blade Runner and look back at the rogue computers, robots and replicants that have brought death, disquiet and destruction to humankind. Enjoy, before it’s too late Greg Whitmore Sat 22 Feb 2014 14.04 EST First published on Sat 22 Feb 2014 14.04 EST Metropolis, 1927 In Fritz Lang's German expressionist sci-fi epic, a robot is created as the double of the film's heroine, Maria. The robot spurs the inhabitants of the city to murder and destruction Photograph: Ronald Grant Archive Share on Facebook Share on Twitter 2001: A Space Odyssey, 1968 In Stanley Kubrick's film, HAL 9000 controls the spacecraft Discovery One, which is bound for Jupiter. The crew suspect HAL of making a mistake and secretly talk about disconnection. HAL lip-reads their conversation and then kills most of the crew in an attempt to survive: 'I'm sorry, Dave, I'm afraid I can't do that' Photograph: Ronald Grant Archive Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Westworld, 1973 'Have we got a vacation for you!' In Michael Crichton's future amusement park, the robots malfunction. Yul Brynner's Gunslinger is the coldest human-killer of all Photograph: MGM/Allstar Share on Facebook Share on Twitter The Stepford Wives, 1975 If you an independently minded female and move to the Connecticut suburb of Stepford, beware. You will be murdered by your robot double Photograph: Alamy Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Logan's Run, 1976 In 2274, when you hit 30 years of age, you are vaporised. Michael York and Jenny Agutter take umbrage and become fugitives, known as Runners. They come across the robot Box in an ice cave. He likes to capture and freeze Runners for all eternity Photograph: Everett Collection/Rex Features Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Demon Seed, 1977 Computer Proteus IV has artificial intelligence. Proteus wants to procreate with Julie Christie's Susan. It threatens to kill a child; she complies. It doesn't end well Photograph: MGM/Allstar Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Alien, 1979 Ian Holm played science officer Ash in Ridley Scott's movie. He wasn't helping the crew of the Nostromo. He was, in fact, a Hyperdyne Systems android intent only on bringing back an alien alive, even if the crew had to die Photograph: Corbis Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Blade Runner, 1982 Replicants, Tyrell Corporation Nexus-6 synthetic humanoids, only have a four-year life span. A gang led by Rutger Hauer's Roy Batty return to Earth looking for answers. Here Batty confronts his 'maker', Dr Eldon Tyrell, prior to killing him in a powerful scene Photograph: Ronald Grant Archive Share on Facebook Share on Twitter The Terminator, 1984 Man creates artificial defence computer system Skynet. Skynet self-develops and thinks autonomously. Skynet creates Terminators. Terminators kill humans. We have been warned Photograph: MGM/Allstar Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Hardware, 1990 Based on a short story from 2000AD , this post-apocalypse-set movie about a self-regenerating, murderous M.A.R.K. 13 cyborg was shot in Camden's famous Roundhouse and featured Iggy Pop as one Angry Bob Photograph: Ronald Grant Archive Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Wallace & Gromit: A Close Shave, 1995 Wallace's love interest Wendolene Ramsbottom is the daughter of a late inventor and owns a dog called Preston. Trouble is, Preston is an evil robot dog who wants to feed everyone into a giant Knit-o-Matic machine – alive Photograph: Aardman/Allstar Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Austin Powers: International Man Of Mystery, 1997 There are two fembot costumes in Austin Powers, the metallic silver bra that shoots bullets at the guards, and the pink nightie that sprays sleeping gas. Austin is only able to defeat them by 'outsexing' them Photograph: PR Share on Facebook Share on Twitter The Matrix Reloaded, 2003 The Sentinels that feature throughout the trilogy are autonomous killing machines that patrol the ancient sewers of the dead human cities Photograph: Warner Bros/Allstar Share on Facebook Share on Twitter I, Robot, 2004 It's 2020 and United States Robotics have a supercomputer Viki (Virtual Interactive Kinetic Intelligence). Viki has been gaining intelligence and interprets Isaac Asimov's first law of robotics (a robot must never harm a human being or, through inaction, allow any human to come to harm) as meaning she must kill humans, including Will Smith's Detective Spooner, to save them from themselves. She employs the NS-5 bots, pictured Photograph: 20 Century Fox/Allstar Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Moon, 2009 In Duncan Jones's brilliant sci-fi film, another seemingly benign space-station controlling AI computer, Gerty, complete with smiley emoticons, turns out to be a sinister clone-controlling minion of the evil Lunar Industries corporation Photograph: PR Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Abe, 2013 'Are you comfortable?' This cracking seven-minute film about a robot serial killer looking for love, written and directed by Rob McLellan, is rumoured to be being picked up by a major.
Hunt down the original online Photograph: PR Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Topics Science fiction and fantasy films Robots Horror films The Terminator Blade Runner Ian Holm More galleries Most popular Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top Close
