Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Ubisoft’s Rainbow Six: Siege SWAT team shooter gets its third Pro League season Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Ubisoft is still going after the esports scene.
The French publisher launched the third season of the Rainbow Six: Siege Pro League today with preliminary rounds starting for Xbox One players today, Monday August 29, and for PC players on Thursday. This will pit the best teams in the world against one another in the SWAT-team simulator while giving up-and-coming squads a chance to get into the Pro League through weekly tournaments. A $150,000 prize pool is up for grabs this season, and teams can register with ESL , the organizer that is managing the Pro League.
Esports is a growing market that is worth $892 million.
That money primarily comes from sponsorships and ticket sales, but Ubisoft is not pursuing competitive gaming as a primary source of revenue. Instead, the company is using this as a marketing strategy to promote Siege. Ubisoft is hoping this ongoing competition will keep Siege players engaged in the game and spending money on in-game content like new golden weapons that sell for $8 each.
Season Three of the Rainbow Six Pro League will continue through the next seven weeks. Xbox One competition is happening today on the Rainbow Six livestreaming Twitch channel, and you can catch it below: Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Ubisoft is not new to esports — although the company has had a lot of false starts in the space. Most notably, the company announced that it was starting its own esport with the fast-paced shooter ShootMania: Storm. That game was an offshoot of the TrackMania racer, and it featured in-depth map-creation tools. But despite Ubisoft’s insistence that ShootMania was the next big esport (or potentially because of it), the game never found a pro-gaming audience.
The French publisher is taking a much more low-key approach with Rainbow Six: Siege. Instead of hyping up the game as an esport from the beginning, Ubisoft has invested in supporting the community that has arisen naturally. That has enabled it to get to season three of the Pro League, and it is possible that these events will continue for many more seasons to come.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
