Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts WhatsApp is suing the world’s top hacking company By Patrick Howell O'Neill archive page Whatsapp Photo: Tim Reckmann/Flickr CC BY 2.0 WhatsApp is suing the Israeli hacking company NSO Group in US federal court, the head of WhatsApp, Will Cathcart, announced in the Washington Post today.
WhatsApp accuses NSO Group of exploiting a vulnerability to target approximately 1,400 phones and devices with “malware designed to infect with the purpose of conducting surveillance on specific WhatsApp users.” You can read the complaint here from WhatsApp, which is owned by Facebook.
The hack allowed NSO Group and its customers to spy on messages, emails, and phone calls, as well as the cameras and microphones of the devices in question.
“There was another disturbing pattern to the attack, as our lawsuit explains,” Cathcart wrote. “It targeted at least 100 human-rights defenders , journalists and other members of civil society across the world.” NSO Group, owned by the parent company Q Cyber Technologies, is an Israeli firm that’s become a world leader in building malware that targets mobile phones and devices. It operates around the world and with a wide variety of governments.
The list of publicly known customers and victims has made NSO infamous: Ahmed Mansoor, a human rights activist in the United Arab Emirates, is serving a 10-year prison sentence after NSO malware was reportedly used to repeatedly spy on him.
“NSO has previously denied any involvement in the [WhatsApp] attack,” Cathcart wrote. “But our investigation found otherwise.” The complaint centers on what WhatsApp lawyers say is NSO Group’s unauthorized access and use of WhatsApp servers in order to emulate legitimate network traffic and WhatsApp calls as part of the operations to infect targeted devices. Malicious code concealed within the calls was the infection.
Researchers at the University of Toronto’s Citizen Lab have investigated and reported on the “ journalists , human rights activists and defenders , lawyers , international investigators , political opposition groups , and other members of civil society” they say have been targeted by NSO Group malware.
The company was recently sold to Novalpina Capital and has since publicly stated it would adhere to United Nations principles, but Citizen Lab says the abuses have continued.
A tech giant suing NSO Group is a virtually unprecedented step, which will test a hacking industry that has been expanding in recent years.
NSO Group did not respond to a request for comment.
Cathcart added that tech giants should join UN Special Rapporteur David Kaye’s recent call for an immediate moratorium on the sale, transfer, and use of surveillance tools like NSO Group malware.
hide by Patrick Howell O'Neill Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos New approaches to the tech talent shortage MIT Technology Review Insights Deep Dive Computing What’s next for the world’s fastest supercomputers Scientists have begun running experiments on Frontier, the world’s first official exascale machine, while facilities worldwide build other machines to join the ranks.
By Sophia Chen archive page AI-powered 6G networks will reshape digital interactions The convergence of AI and communication technologies will create 6G networks that make hyperconnectivity and immersive experiences an everyday reality for consumers.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page The power of green computing Sustainable computing practices have the power to both infuse operational efficiencies and greatly reduce energy consumption, says Jen Huffstetler, chief product sustainability officer at Intel.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page How this Turing Award–winning researcher became a legendary academic advisor Theoretical computer scientist Manuel Blum has guided generations of graduate students into fruitful careers in the field.
By Sheon Han archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
