Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Tom Simonite Business Report: The Government and Tech Need to Cooperate on AI “AI adoption for national security is imperative,” said Eric Schmidt, chair of the National Security Commission on Artificial Intelligence and formerly CEO of Google. “The private sector and government officials need to build a shared sense of responsibility.” Photograph: Winni Wintermeyer/Redux Save this story Save Save this story Save Application Regulation Company Alphabet Amazon Google Microsoft End User Government Sector Defense Research Public safety America’s national security depends on the government getting access to the artificial intelligence breakthroughs made by the technology industry.
So says a report submitted to Congress on Monday by the National Security Commission on Artificial Intelligence. The group, which includes executives from Google, Microsoft, Oracle, and Amazon, says the Pentagon and intelligence agencies need a better relationship with Silicon Valley to stay ahead of China.
“AI adoption for national security is imperative,” said Eric Schmidt, chair of the commission and formerly CEO of Google, at a news briefing Monday. “The private sector and government officials need to build a shared sense of responsibility.” Monday’s report says the US leads the world in both military might and AI technology. It predicts that AI can enhance US national security in numerous ways, for example by making cybersecurity systems, aerial surveillance, and submarine warfare less constrained by human labor and reaction times.
But the commission also unspools a litany of reasons that US dominance on the world stage and in AI may not last, noting that China is projected to overtake the US in R&D spending within 10 years, while US federal research spending as a percentage of GDP “has returned to pre-Sputnik levels” and should be increased significantly.
Robert Work, vice chair of the commission and previously deputy secretary of defense under Obama and Trump, continued the Cold War comparisons in Monday’s news briefing. “We've never faced a high-tech authoritarian competitor before,” he said. “The Soviet Union could compete with us in niche capabilities like nuclear weapons and space, but in the broad sense they were a technological inferior.” Created by Congress in August 2018 to offer recommendations on how the US should use AI in national security and defense, the NSCAI has strong tech industry representation. In addition to Schmidt, the 15-member commission includes Safra Katz, CEO of Oracle, Andy Jassy, the head of Amazon’s cloud business, and top AI executives from Microsoft and Google. Other members are from NASA, academia, the US Army, and the CIA's tech investment fund.
Monday’s report says staying ahead of China depends in part on the US government getting more access to AI advances taking place inside tech companies—like those several of the commissioners work for. The document describes the Pentagon as “struggling to access the best AI technology on the commercial market.” The Department of Defense has in recent years set up a series of programs aimed at forging closer relationships with Silicon Valley companies large and small.
 Monday’s report suggests that pressure to find new ways to deepen relations will continue to grow, says William Carter, deputy director of the technology policy program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. “The report clearly articulates that DOD continuing to do business the way it always has and expecting the world to go along with it is not going to work,” he says.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight The commission won’t send its final recommendations to Congress until late next year, but Monday's interim report says the US government should invest more in AI research and training, curtail inappropriate Chinese access to US exports and university research, and mull the ethical implications of AI-enhanced national security apparatus.
So far, attempts to draw tech companies into more national security contracts have had mixed results.
Employee protests forced Google to promise not to renew its piece of a Pentagon program, Project Maven, created to show how tech companies could help military AI projects. Microsoft has also faced internal protests over contracts with the Army and Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
Yet Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella and his Amazon counterpart Jeff Bezos have issued full-throated statements in support of the idea of taking national security contracts. Last month, Microsoft won a $10 billion Pentagon cloud-computing contract motivated in part by a desire to improve the department’s AI capabilities. Deals like that could become more common if the commission proves to be influential.
Work said at Monday’s briefing that the fallout from Google’s high-profile Maven reversal had been minor. “The department was a little worried that when Google removed itself from Project Maven, that would start a stampede with other high-tech firms,” he said. “That did not happen.” Google’s response to the Maven protests included releasing a set of ethical guidelines for future AI projects that explicitly allow military projects but forbid work on weapons. Monday’s report warns that national security AI projects will raise their own ethical questions for the US government. The report doesn't set out firm limits or guidelines but says US agencies should take time to think about how AI national security tools can be made reliable and used in ways that respect human rights. This comes a few days after a Pentagon advisory board proposed ethics guidelines for military AI projects.
Although the ethics discussion is light on detail, it is notable that the report includes it at all, says Heather Roff, a senior research analyst at Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory and an adviser to the commission.
Ethical questions raised by new national security technologies such as nuclear weapons, blinding lasers, or wide-scale surveillance have usually not received much acknowledgement until after they were used or developed, she says. “If there was a discussion about ethics, it didn't really happen until after the fact,” Roff says. “This is much more proactive.” The super-optimized dirt that helps keep racehorses safe What's blockchain actually good for, anyway? For now, not much How to free up space in Gmail Trying to plant a trillion trees won't solve anything The untold story of Olympic Destroyer, the most deceptive hack in history 👁 Prepare for the deepfake era of video ; plus, check out the latest news on AI 🏃🏽‍♀️ Want the best tools to get healthy? Check out our Gear team’s picks for the best fitness trackers , running gear (including shoes and socks ), and best headphones.
Senior Editor X Topics artificial intelligence Khari Johnson Khari Johnson Khari Johnson Will Knight Will Knight Will Knight Matt Laslo Will Knight Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
