Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Khari Johnson Business The Curious Case of the Missing Google Assistant Photograph: R.Tsubin/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Google executives hosted the company’s I/O developer conference this week, an annual ritual that has in recent years centered on artificial intelligence. With OpenAI’s ChatGPT and Microsoft’s Bing chatbot seen as challenging Google’s search domination, Google CEO Sundar Pichai seemed intent on projecting the message that his company is still the leader in AI—and is speeding up deployment of the technology.
Google’s own chatty large language model, Bard , was the headliner, and it is now publicly available in 180 countries. Following along behind came about a dozen generative AI product features and experiments that can do things like help programmers write code, draft emails, or generate speaker notes for Google Slides presentations.
But hardly a word was said about Google Assistant, the clunkily named and voice-centric AI assistant that was the company’s previous AI champion. That was a noticeable omission, because Google Assistant took center stage at I/O on numerous occasions in years past, championed by Pichai as an all-purpose AI helper growing smarter by the year, and integrated into products like search and the Android operating system.
For the better part of the past decade, Google Assistant was a star of I/O, starting with the introduction of the Home smart speaker in 2016.
 Later editions of the event saw the launch of a program that let outside developers tap into voice commands called actions. Then there were Google Assistant-powered products like the Nest Hub Max smart display, introduced in 2019, and a startling demo of a feature called Duplex that makes phone calls to local businesses on a user's behalf.
Google was also testing a new chatbot, LaMDA , powered by text-generation technology. But then last fall OpenAI introduced ChatGPT, its answer to LaMDA, and everything changed. The bot was fluent ( if flawed ) and quickly drew millions of users, prompting internal strife at Google about the speed of its large language model deployment. Google released Bard in February.
 By April, CEO Sundar Pichai began referring to generative AI as a “super-powered assistant”—leaving Google Assistant in the shade.
The case of the missing Google Assistant at the AI jamboree this week raises questions about the company’s AI strategy. Why would one of the largest AI projects at Google be left out of its generative AI push ? Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight One possible answer is that Google is scrambling to catch up after getting caught flat-footed by ChatGPT, and simply hasn’t had time to properly integrate Bard-style fluency into the older Google Assistant.
In response to questions about Google Assistant’s absence from the I/O keynote, company spokesperson Katie Hutchison said that Google Assistant will power some exclusive features in Google’s new foldable smartphone , such as responding to the command “Hey Google, take a selfie.” It will also be available in the new Pixel Tablet.
Google Assistant has 700 million monthly users today, Hutchison says, while Bard is “an early experiment.” Experiments and user testing to inform how to apply Bard across Google products are ongoing.
The debut of ChatGPT, Bard, and similar bots has shone new light on the shortcomings of older AI helpers such as Google Assistant and Amazon’s Alexa, which still struggle with conversational skills that come naturally to people, like being able to engage in ongoing back-and-forth dialog.
Alexa and Google Assistant didn’t take off as their creators thought they would, says Arte Merritt, who is currently working on a generative AI startup but was previously global partnership leader for conversational AI at Amazon. He points to layoffs at Amazon’s Alexa team in 2022 and the Google Assistant team being reassigned to focus on Bard this year as acknowledgements of the ceiling on the capability of those so-called smart assistants, which are incapable of many things Bard or ChatGPT can do, like draft an email.
Merritt says that surveys he performed of smart speaker users for three years found that people stuck to core use cases such as answering factual questions, checking the weather, playing music, and setting timers.
However, upgrading Google Assistant or another more established voice assistant with generative AI is not straightforward. Since people can type questions or prompts for Bard or ChatGPT, they don’t have to clear the hurdles of voice interaction, such as recognizing different accents. And because answers must also be spoken, the verbose answers provided by the likes of Bard could be a problem.
“People don’t want to hear their assistant read out a long answer to a question,” Merritt says. He believes generative AI can make Google Assistant better and more insightful, but working through the significant differences between the two conversational AI models means it can’t be done overnight—or in a panic.
You Might Also Like … 📧 Find the best bargains on quality gear with our Deals newsletter “ Someone is using photos of me to talk to men” First-gen social media users have nowhere to go The truth behind the biggest (and dumbest) battery myths We asked a Savile Row tailor to test all the “best” T-shirts you see in social media ads My kid wants to be an influencer.
 Is that bad? 🌞 See if you take a shine to our picks for the best sunglasses and sun protection Senior Writer X Topics voice assistants artificial intelligence Google machine learning ChatGPT OpenAI Microsoft Bing Joel Khalili Steven Levy Steven Levy Will Knight Vittoria Elliott Steven Levy Steven Levy Joel Khalili Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
