Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Robbie Gonzalez Science How Eliud Kipchoge Pulled Off His Epic, Sub-2-Hour Marathon Save this story Save Save this story Save On Saturday morning in Vienna, Austria, Eliud Kipchoge, the world's finest marathoner , became the first person in history to run 26.2 miles in under two hours.
 His time of 1:59:40 required him to maintain an average pace of just under 4:35 per mile. That is, to put it mildly, soul-searing speed. Even a supremely fit person would struggle to run at so aggressive a clip for more than five or six minutes in a row. On Saturday, Kipchoge held it for just shy of 120.
But Kipchoge's performance will not be recognized as an official world record. The event was not an open competition; it was held for Kipchoge and Kipchoge alone. What's more, a rotating cast of pacers shielded him from wind throughout the run, and a bicycle-riding support team was on hand at all times to deliver him water and fuel. It was not so much a race, in other words, as an exhibition event designed for speed. A one-man, all-or-nothing time trial.
In addition to his pacers and support crew, Kipchoge had the advantages of running on a fast course and wearing a pair of controversial shoes purported to shave minutes off a marathoner's overall time.
 All of which raises an important question: How much of Saturday's performance was down to Kipchoge—by most accounts the best marathoner of this generation, and perhaps of all time—and how much of it was down to everything else? In the video above, we put that question to physiologist Michael Joyner, a renowned expert in human performance who in 1991 hypothesized that a two-hour marathon was possible. In our interview, we discuss all the factors that came together to produce Kipchoge's historic time—and what it might take to see the two-hour barrier fall in open competition.
The first smartphone war 7 cybersecurity threats that can sneak up on you “Forever chemicals” are in your popcorn— and your blood EVs fire up pyroswitches to cut risk of shock after a crash The spellbinding allure of Seoul's fake urban mountains 👁 Prepare for the deepfake era of video ; plus, check out the latest news on AI ✨ Optimize your home life with our Gear team’s best picks, from robot vacuums to affordable mattresses to smart speakers.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Senior Writer X Topics Sports running marathon Kate Yoder Tristan Kennedy Maryn McKenna Matt Simon Erica Kasper Ramin Skibba Emily Mullin Ben Brubaker Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
