Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts MIT News Magazine View previous issues MIT Technology Review Magazine A look inside MIT.nano With research now under way in a grand new facility, MIT is poised to build on its impressive legacy of studying— and building—at the smallest scale.
MIT Class notes View previous issue View next issue Features Categorized in MIT News feature A look inside MIT.nano With research now under way in a grand new facility, MIT is poised to build on its impressive legacy of studying— and building—at the smallest scale.
Categorized in MIT News feature Giving medicine a dose of AI MIT’s J-Clinic and an alum’s nonprofit are working to help machine learning realize its promise in health care.
Categorized in MIT News feature The geek Chris Schmandt ’73, SM ’80, spent four decades “playing around” at the Media Lab, inventing interactive speech interfaces for computers and the first in-car navigation system that told drivers where to go.
Categorized in MIT Index Tech Reunions Facts and figures about the annual pilgrimage to campus Categorized in Rising to the AI challenge MIT must prepare students for a world in which computation is as fundamental as math—and make sure AI is developed responsibly, for the good of society.
Categorized in 77 Mass Ave Democracy dividend Researchers find vast gains in economic growth after countries reject authoritarianism.
Have an idea for a great MIT story? If you know of any MIT alumni making a difference in their corner of the planet, let us know. We always welcome your ideas for interesting stories about the MIT community.
Share your stories Also in this issue Itsy bitsy twist A surprising property of spider silk could lead to artificial muscles.
Categorized in 77 Mass Ave Bacteria help lung tumors grow An immune response creates a hospitable environment for cancer.
Categorized in 77 Mass Ave Setting their sights Six Turing laureates who pushed for a college of computing wrestle with the future of their field.
Categorized in 77 Mass Ave Rock lobster The microstructure of the crustacean’s underbelly makes it as tough as industrial rubber.
Categorized in 77 Mass Ave Personal data control A new platform lets people manage how companies can use their data.
Categorized in 77 Mass Ave Internet evolution and a uniquely American lab A deep look at the internet’s design, and a behind-the-scenes tour of Lawrence Livermore National Lab Categorized in Meet the author Democracy endangered How the internet became a threat to democracy—and how MIT’s new College of Computing can help.
Categorized in Under the dome Predicting Three Mile Island A controversial report, an MIT professor, and the most publicized nuclear disaster in US history Categorized in 1865 At MIT, space is in the atmosphere Above and beyond with the Institute’s more than 40 alumni astronauts Categorized in Alumni connection Five decades at the green edge of architecture Jeffrey Heller ’64, MArch ’68 Categorized in Alumni profile A network that empowers kids to dream big Frances Pinedo ’94 Categorized in Alumni profile Rapper flips the script on music and coding L. Dolio Durant ’99 Categorized in Alumni profile A robotic microscope brings pathology up to speed Cody Daniel ’11 Categorized in Alumni profile Licensing tribal art globally, to support creativity close to home Rebecca Hui, MCP ’17 Categorized in Alumni profile Heather ’89 and Maurice Cogdell Oakton, Virginia Categorized in Profiles in generosity Past issues Updated The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
