Tech Money Home Wellness Energy Home Internet Deals & Reviews New! Price Finder More Close Join/Login Tech Home Entertainment Mobile Computing Services & Software Gaming Money Credit Cards Mortgages Insurance Loans Cryptocurrency Banking Investing Taxes Home Home Internet Home Security Kitchen & Household Smart Home Energy & Utilities Yard & Outdoors Wellness Sleep Nutrition Fitness Personal Care Parenting Medical Mental Health News & Culture Politics Social Media Privacy Misinformation Culture Internet Culture Entertainment Sports Videos Science Climate Space Biology Deals & Reviews Reviews Best Products Versus Gift Guide Shopping Extension Cars Best Cars Car Accessories Car Reviews Car News Car Prices Coupons Vistaprint Coupons StubHub Discount Codes H&M Coupons ExpressVPN Coupons Home Depot Coupons Office Depot Coupons Ashley Furniture Coupons Samsung Promo Codes NordVPN Coupons Surfshark Coupons Shutterfly Promo Codes Zenni Optical Promo Codes Hotels.com Coupons Walmart Promo Codes Booking.com Promo Codes Hotwire Promo Codes Want CNET to notify you of price drops and the latest stories? No, thank you Accept CNET Tags Artificial intelligence (AI) Artificial intelligence (AI) Latest News AI and You: OpenAI CEO Sam Altman Is Fired, the Rise of Synthetic Performers Get up to speed on the rapidly evolving world of AI with our roundup of the week's developments.
Article by Connie Guglielmo How Close Is That Photo to the Truth? What to Know in the Age of AI AI can let you lie with photos. But you don't want a photo untouched by digital processing.
Article by Stephen Shankland Google Opens Up Its Bard AI Tool to Teenagers Around the World The company wants you to know that it's "continuing to be responsible" as it brings its generative AI tools to more people.
Article by Gael Fashingbauer Cooper Qualcomm's Next Chip Brings ChatGPT-Like AI to More Affordable Phones The Snapdragon 7 Gen 3 brings performance upgrades and on-device AI to phones just below the top tier.
Article by David Lumb Travel Planning With AI: I Tested It for a City I Know Inside and Out Thinking of asking AI to plan your next trip? Read this first.
Article by Katie Collins AI or Not AI: Can You Spot the Real Photos? Take a look at these images and see if you can tell which are "fake." Gallery by James Martin CNET's Pro Photographers React to AI Photos Just as photography changed drawings and paintings, AI will forever change our photos.
Video by Patrick Holland AI Assistants Need to Know a Lot About You to Work Best. Is That OK? To get the best of new generative AI assistants, you'll need to contend with these chatbots learning more about you.
Article by Lisa Eadicicco How Qualcomm Plans to Bring Apple's Ecosystem Perks to Windows and Android Snapdragon Seamless could ease connectivity between devices from different companies for better functionality if brands get onboard.
Article by David Lumb AI and You: ChatGPT Lets You Roll Your Own 'GPTs,' Wearable AI May Be the Next Big Thing Get up to speed on the rapidly evolving world of AI with our roundup of the past week's developments.
Article by Connie Guglielmo The New Beatles Video: How AI Is Helping and Hindering the Music Industry A new Beatles song and video, released 50 years after the band broke up, is just one note in a crescendo of AI and music. Here's the latest on how AI's push into the industry is turning up the volume on the debate.
Article by Gael Fashingbauer Cooper Qualcomm's PC Chip Could Mean Windows PCs as Good as Apple MacBooks Apple's M3-based MacBooks have launched, but Windows users still want their own efficient yet powerful laptops.
Article by David Lumb See More More From CNET Deals Reviews Best Products Gift Guide Shopping Extension Videos Software Downloads About About CNET Newsletter Sitemap Careers Policies Help Center Terms of Use Privacy Policy Licensing Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
