Toggle Navigation News Events TNW Conference 2024 June 20 & 21, 2024 TNW Vision: 2024 All events Spaces Programs Newsletters Partner with us Jobs Contact News news news news Latest Deep tech Sustainability Ecosystems Data and security Fintech and ecommerce Future of work More Startups and technology Investors and funding Government and policy Corporates and innovation Gadgets & apps Early bird Business passes are 90% SOLD OUT 🎟️ Buy now before they are gone → This article was published on March 11, 2020 Security Hackers are using coronavirus maps to infect your computer Image by: Reason security As coronavirus threatens to become a global pandemic, everyone’s keeping a close eye on how it’s spreading across the world.
Several organizations have made dashboards to keep track of COVID-19.
 But now, hackers have found a way to use these dashboards to inject malware into computers.
Shai Alfasi, a security researcher at Reason Labs , found that hackers are using these maps to steal information of users including user names, passwords, credit card numbers, and other info stored in your browser.
[Read: Google now displays health info from the NHS directly in search results ] Attackers design websites related to coronavirus in order to prompt you to download an application to keep you updated on the situation. This application doesn’t need any installation, and shows you a map of how COVID-19 is spreading. However, it is a front for attackers to generate a malicious binary file and install it on your computer.
Get your ticket NOW for TNW Conference - Super Earlybird is 90% sold out! Unleash innovation, connect with thousands of tech lovers and shape the future on June 20-21, 2024.
Just to be clear, these websites pose as genuine maps for tracking coronavirus, but have a different URL or different details from the original source.
Currently, the malware only affects Windows machines. But Alfasi expects attackers to work on a new version that might affect other systems too.
Alfasi noted that this method used malicious software known as AZORult , which was first found in 2016. The software is made to steal data from your computer and infect it with other malware as well.
The researcher noted that AZORult can steal info from your computer including passwords and cryptocurrencies: It is used to steal browsing history, cookies, ID/passwords, cryptocurrency and more. It can also download additional malware onto infected machines. AZORult is commonly sold on Russian underground forums for the purpose of collecting sensitive data from an infected computer.
A new variant of AZORult installs a secret admin account on your computer to perform remote attacks.
Earlier this month, research from security firm Check Point noted that coronavirus related domains are 50 percent more likely to install malware in your system.
While it’s important to gain information regarding coronavirus, you should only use verified dashboards to keep a tab on it to avoid getting hacked.
Story by Ivan Mehta Ivan covers Big Tech, India, policy, AI, security, platforms, and apps for TNW. That's one heck of a mixed bag. He likes to say "Bleh." Ivan covers Big Tech, India, policy, AI, security, platforms, and apps for TNW. That's one heck of a mixed bag. He likes to say "Bleh." Get the TNW newsletter Get the most important tech news in your inbox each week.
Also tagged with Coronavirus Hacker (term) Code injection Story by Ivan Mehta Popular articles 1 UK won’t regulate AI anytime soon, minister says 2 World-first CRISPR gene-editing therapy approved in UK 3 AI is transforming the English dictionary 4 This new EV supercharger on wheels recharges in just 6 minutes 5 VP of UK’s top generative AI firm resigns over ‘fair use’ controversy Related Articles data security Critical infrastructure radio tech ‘easily hacked’ through deliberate backdoor science Scientists want to unleash a Bluetooth-powered ‘virtual virus’ to study COVID-19 Join TNW All Access Watch videos of our inspiring talks for free → sustainability Uber is spending $250M to coax drivers to come back in Why India is asking Twitter and Facebook to remove posts mentioning an ‘Indian variant’ The heart of tech More TNW Media Events Programs Spaces Newsletters Jobs in tech About TNW Partner with us Jobs Terms & Conditions Cookie Statement Privacy Statement Editorial Policy Masthead Copyright © 2006—2023, The Next Web B.V. Made with <3 in Amsterdam.
