Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Facebook passes 2 billion monthly active users Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Facebook cofounder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg appears at the company's F8 developer conference in San Jose on April 18, 2017.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Facebook, the social network created in a Harvard University dorm room in 2004, now has more than 2 billion users around the world. The achievement was announced today in a Facebook post by CEO Mark Zuckerberg to his 92 million followers.
For context, the U.S. Census Population Clock says there are about 7.4 billion people in the world. Since the launch of Facebook, the company has come to acquire WhatsApp, Instagram, and Oculus, and created products like Facebook Messenger, which also attracts more than a billion monthly active users.
The list of platforms in the world that have exceeded 2 billion monthly active users isn’t very long, but last month the Android operating system passed 2 billion monthly active devices.
In its latest quarter earnings report (May 2017), Facebook shared it had 1.94 billion monthly active users.
 Of those, 1.28 billion were daily active users, or 66 percent of the monthly count.
Last year, the social network set two big user count milestones. In July 2016, Facebook passed 1 billion mobile daily active users.
 In November 2016, the service passed 1 billion mobile-only monthly users.
 Every major subset of Facebook’s 2 billion monthly active users (daily, mobile, mobile monthly, mobile-only) has at least 1 billion users.
In honor of the occasion, Facebook is making personalized videos for users, which can be seen by visiting your News Feed or at facebook.com/goodaddsup.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
