Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts The FDA wants to regulate machine learning in health care By Karen Hao archive page The US Food and Drug Administration has announced that it is preparing to regulate AI systems that can update and improve themselves as they gorge on more training data.
The announcement: The agency released a white paper proposing a regulatory framework to decide how medical products that use AI should seek approval before they can go on the market. It is the biggest step the FDA has taken to date toward formalizing oversight of products that use machine learning (ML).
The challenge: Machine-learning systems are tricky to regulate because they can continuously update and improve their performance through new training data. In instances where the FDA has approved ML-based medical software before, it has required the algorithms to be “frozen” before commercial deployment and to go through a reapproval process when they are changed. But the agency recognizes that this process means we lose out on the benefits of the technology. New rules might allow ML systems to evolve to a certain extent after initial approval while the risks of that evolution are managed.
The framework: When seeking approval for a given product, providers of ML medical devices would also have the option of submitting a plan for planned software modifications, including model retraining. Additionally, the FDA would evaluate the quality of the provider’s product development process to ensure, for example, that its system is verified through clinical trials.
Next steps: The FDA is now collecting feedback on the document. The paper “demonstrates careful forethought about the field,” Eric Topol, an expert at the intersection of deep learning and health care, told Stat.
For more on the world of AI, sign up to our Webby-nominated newsletter The Algorithm here.
hide by Karen Hao Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 Zeyi Yang How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Deep Dive Artificial intelligence This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI The tool, called Nightshade, messes up training data in ways that could cause serious damage to image-generating AI models.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 With just a few minutes of sample video and $1,000, brands never have to stop selling their products.
By Zeyi Yang archive page Driving companywide efficiencies with AI Advanced AI and ML capabilities revolutionize how administrative and operations tasks are done.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page Rogue superintelligence and merging with machines: Inside the mind of OpenAI’s chief scientist An exclusive conversation with Ilya Sutskever on his fears for the future of AI and why they’ve made him change the focus of his life’s work.
By Will Douglas Heaven archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
