Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Lawmakers will look more closely at facial-recognition software after being mistaken for criminals By Will Knight archive page The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) came up with a clever way to draw lawmakers’ attention to the limitations of facial-recognition technology: it used it to (falsely) identify more than 28 of them as criminals.
Lawmakers or breakers?: The ACLU used Amazon’s Rekognition platform to compare federal lawmakers’ faces with 25,000 publically available mugshots. They found that 28 members of Congress matched incorrectly with known criminals.
Rekognition is currently being used by a number of US police departments. In its defense, Amazon says law enforcement should only use the technology to “narrow the field.” Err, Jeff? The incident may encourage lawmakers to take a closer look at technology that has significant privacy implications. Three of the US lawmakers erroneously identified have written a letter asking Amazon to explain how its system works. Two more have asked for meeting with Amazon’s CEO, Jeff Bezos, to discuss the issue.
Troubling bias: Amazon’s software disproportionately identified African-American and Latino lawmakers. Racial bias has been found in other commercial face-recognition systems.
hide by Will Knight Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 Zeyi Yang How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Deep Dive Artificial intelligence This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI The tool, called Nightshade, messes up training data in ways that could cause serious damage to image-generating AI models.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 With just a few minutes of sample video and $1,000, brands never have to stop selling their products.
By Zeyi Yang archive page Driving companywide efficiencies with AI Advanced AI and ML capabilities revolutionize how administrative and operations tasks are done.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page Rogue superintelligence and merging with machines: Inside the mind of OpenAI’s chief scientist An exclusive conversation with Ilya Sutskever on his fears for the future of AI and why they’ve made him change the focus of his life’s work.
By Will Douglas Heaven archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
