Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Intel’s Dominance May Falter Further as Microsoft Eyes ARM for the Cloud By Jamie Condliffe archive page Intel's dominance could be further eroded as Microsoft looks to alternative chip makers for its cloud hardware.
Bloomberg reports that Microsoft has been testing servers built using ARM-designed processors to run its Azure cloud system. While they’re not yet being used to provide services for customers, they are being tested for uses such as machine learning, big data analysis, and storage. Microsoft hopes that the move could save it money, as the chips use less power and are built by multiple manufacturers, keeping pricing competitive.
Currently, Intel controls almost the entire server chip market. It's unclear how widely the ARM chips will be deployed at Microsoft, but Jason Zander, vice president of Microsoft's Azure cloud division, tells Bloomberg that Microsoft is making “a significant commitment” to using the new silicon.
Bloomberg also reports that the hardware will be incorporated into a new cloud server design developed by Microsoft that will ultimately be open-sourced for other companies to use.
Traditionally ARM has dominated the market in mobile processors, with hardware best known for its energy efficiency. But the U.K.-based chip designer has also encroached upon the Intel stronghold of supercomputing. ARM developed new chip architectures designed specifically for supercomputing applications and Fujitsu announced that it would use the firm’s hardware to make a new supercomputer called Project K.
Since ARM was purchased by the Japanese telecom and Internet company SoftBank last year for $32 billion, aggressive investment has only looked to worsen the situation for Intel. ARM plans to double its British workforce, from 1,600 to 3,200 staff, by 2021, and just last month said that it expected to deliver around a trillion chips for Internet of things devices in the next 20 years. Meanwhile, other chip makers—from established players like Nvidia to newcomers like Nervana—are challenging Intel with their machine-learning-focused chipsets.
For its part, Intel is busy trying to innovate, working hard to develop its quantum technologies and optical computing hardware.
 But the Microsoft news suggests that some of its bread and butter income could soon be taken from beneath its nose.
(Read more: Bloomberg , Reuters , “ Intel Outside as Other Companies Prosper from AI Chips ,” “ ARM Wrestles Its Way Into Supercomputing ,” “ $32 Billion Buyout of ARM Is a Giant Bet on the Internet of Things ”) hide by Jamie Condliffe Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos New approaches to the tech talent shortage MIT Technology Review Insights Keep Reading Most Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI The tool, called Nightshade, messes up training data in ways that could cause serious damage to image-generating AI models.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Artificial wombs are nearing human trials. But the goal is to save the littlest preemies, not replace the uterus.
By Cassandra Willyard archive page How to fix the internet If we want online discourse to improve, we need to move beyond the big platforms.
By Katie Notopoulos archive page New approaches to the tech talent shortage Early-career programs enable tech companies to invest in the future workforce via upskilling and education.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
