Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts A Startup Uses Quantum Computing to Boost Machine Learning By Will Knight archive page Rigetti A company in California just proved that an exotic and potentially game-changing kind of computer can be used to perform a common form of machine learning.
The feat raises hopes that quantum computers, which exploit the logic-defying principles of quantum physics to perform certain types of calculations at ridiculous speeds, could have a big impact on the hottest area of the tech industry: artificial intelligence.
Researchers at Rigetti Computing , a company based in Berkeley, California, used one of its prototype quantum chips—a superconducting device housed within an elaborate super-chilled setup—to run what’s known as a clustering algorithm. Clustering is a machine-learning technique used to organize data into similar groups. Rigetti is also making the new quantum computer—which can handle 19 quantum bits, or qubits—available through its cloud computing platform, called Forest, today.
The demonstration does not, however, mean quantum computers are poised to revolutionize AI. Quantum computers are so exotic that no one quite knows what the killer apps might be. Rigetti’s algorithm, for instance, isn’t of any practical use, and it isn’t entirely clear how useful it would be to perform clustering tasks on a quantum machine.
Still, Will Zeng, head of software and applications at Rigetti, argues that the work represents a key step toward building a quantum machine. “This is a new path toward practical applications for quantum computers,” Zeng says. “Clustering is a really fundamental and foundational mathematical problem. No one has ever shown you can do this.” There is currently a remarkable amount of excitement surrounding efforts to develop practical quantum computers.
 Big technology companies, including IBM, Google, Intel, and Microsoft, as well as a few well-funded startups are racing to build exotic machines that promise to usher in a fundamentally new form of computing.
First dreamed up by physicists almost 40 years ago , quantum computers do not handle information using binary 1 s and 0 s. Instead, they exploit two quantum phenomena—superposition and entanglement—to perform calculations on large quantities of data at once. The nature of quantum physics means that a computer with just 100 qubits should be capable of calculations on a mind-boggling scale.
Rigetti is something of an underdog in the race. IBM recently announced that it has built a quantum computer with 50 qubits, and Google is widely rumored to have a device of similar scale. Still, Rigetti has plenty of boosters. The company has raised around $70 million from investors including Andreessen Horowitz, one of Silicon Valley’s most prominent firms.
Having more qubits doesn’t necessarily equate to superiority, though. Maintaining quantum states and manipulating qubits reliably represent formidable challenges.
Like some others, Rigetti uses a hybrid approach, meaning its quantum machine works in concert with a conventional one to make programming more straightforward. Zeng says the company’s systems are also more modular than its rivals’, which may offer a significant edge when it comes to scaling machines up further.
Quantum computing has tremendous potential, in theory. There is good evidence that quantum machines can be used to solve cryptographic challenges and to simulate new material. And there is hope that algorithms such Rigetti’s will eventually transform the world of machine learning and AI.
Quantum computers are just now reaching a scale where they can perform work that would be very difficult, if not impossible, to run on even the most powerful conventional supercomputer. The race to demonstrate this threshold with a functioning machine, sometimes referred to as “quantum supremacy,” has become symbolic of the current hype. Physicists agree that it will be several more years before quantum computers, and the algorithms that run on them, show their worth.
Christopher Monroe , an experimental physicist at the University of Maryland and chief scientist at another quantum computing startup, IonQ , says it is too early to suggest quantum computing will change machine learning. “We don’t really understand how and why classical machine learning works, so it seems that applying it to quantum might just further obfuscate an already obfuscated field,” he says.
Monroe, however, raises an interesting reverse possibility. He suggests that machine learning might play a key role in making quantum computers more reliable. “The growing complexity of classical control systems for large quantum computers may need a different approach,” he points out. So he speculates that “perhaps non-quantum machine learning will be used” to manage the complex behavior inside these machines.
Scott Aaronson , who directs the Quantum Information Center at the University of Texas, says he expects quantum computing to speed up some machine-learning approaches in the future, although more work will be needed to show how valuable that is.
Both Aaronson and Monroe agree that making quantum computers accessible via the cloud, as Rigetti, IBM, and Google are all doing, will be crucial to advancing the field. Applications will likely emerge as engineers and programmers start to experiment on these systems.
Providing access to early adopters may also provide a valuable revenue stream for startups like Rigetti. IBM recently announced a range of partners for its quantum project, including JPMorgan Chase, Daimler AG, Samsung, Hitachi, and Oak Ridge National Laboratory. These companies want to see what quantum machines might be able to do in a range of applications including financial modeling, chemistry, and route optimization.
Aaronson wonders if the growing hype might eventually hold back real progress, although it may prove difficult to separate the two. “On the other hand,” he says, “it’s a genuinely exciting time.” hide by Will Knight Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 Zeyi Yang How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Deep Dive Computing What’s next for the world’s fastest supercomputers Scientists have begun running experiments on Frontier, the world’s first official exascale machine, while facilities worldwide build other machines to join the ranks.
By Sophia Chen archive page AI-powered 6G networks will reshape digital interactions The convergence of AI and communication technologies will create 6G networks that make hyperconnectivity and immersive experiences an everyday reality for consumers.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page The power of green computing Sustainable computing practices have the power to both infuse operational efficiencies and greatly reduce energy consumption, says Jen Huffstetler, chief product sustainability officer at Intel.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page How this Turing Award–winning researcher became a legendary academic advisor Theoretical computer scientist Manuel Blum has guided generations of graduate students into fruitful careers in the field.
By Sheon Han archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
