Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Klint Finley Business Amazon's Giving Away the AI Behind Its Product Recommendations Save this story Save Save this story Save Amazon has become the latest tech giant that's giving away some of its most sophisticated technology. Today the company unveiled DSSTNE (pronounced "destiny"), an open source artificial intelligence framework that the company developed to power its product recommendation system. Now any company, researcher, or curious tinkerer can use it for their own AI applications.
It's the latest in series of projects recently open sourced by large tech companies all focused on a branch of AI called deep learning. Google, Facebook, and Microsoft have mainly used these systems for tasks like image and speech recognition. But given Amazon's core business, it's not surprising that the online retailer's version is devoted to selling merchandise.
"We are releasing DSSTNE as open source software so that the promise of deep learning can extend beyond speech and language understanding and object recognition to other areas such as search and recommendations," the Q&A section of Amazon's DSSTNE GitHub page reads. "We hope that researchers around the world can collaborate to improve it. But more importantly, we hope that it spurs innovation in many more areas." Along with the idealistic rhetoric, open sourcing AI software is a way for tech industry rivals to show off and one-up each other. When Google released its TensorFlow framework last year, it didn't offer support for running the software across multiple servers at the same time. That meant users couldn't speed up their AI computations by stringing together clusters of computers the same way Google could running a more advanced version of the system internally.
That created an opening for other software companies like Microsoft and Yahoo to release their own open source deep learning frameworks that support distributed computing clusters.
Google has since caught up, releasing a version of TensorFlow that supports clusters earlier this year.
 Amazon claims its system takes distribution one step further by enabling users to to spread a deep learning problem not just across multiple servers, but across multiple processors within each server.
Amazon also says DSSTNE is designed to work with sparser data sets than TensorFlow and other deep learning frameworks. Google uses TensorFlow internally for tasks such as image recognition, where it can rely on the Internet's vast store of, say, cat photos to train its AI to recognize images of cats. Amazon's scenarios are quite different. The company does sells millions of different products. But the number of examples of how the purchase of one product relates to the purchase of another are relatively few by comparison to cats on the Internet. To make compelling recommendations—that is, to recommend products that customers are more likely to click on and buy—Amazon has a strong incentive to create a system that can make good predictions based on less data. By open sourcing DSSTNE, Amazon is increasing the likelihood that some smart person somewhere outside the company will help the company think of ways to make the system better.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Contributor X Topics Amazon artificial intelligence deep learning open source Will Knight Will Knight Gregory Barber Will Knight Khari Johnson Will Knight Will Knight Will Knight Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
