Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon launches Personalize, a fully managed AI-powered recommendation service Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn AWS CTO Werner Vogels onstage November 29, 2018 at re:Invent.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Amazon today announced the general availability of Amazon Personalize , an AWS service that facilitates the development of websites, mobile apps, and content management and email marketing systems that suggest products, provide tailored search results, and customize funnels on the fly.
It’s available in select AWS regions to start, including US East (Ohio), US East (North Virginia), US West (Oregon), Asia Pacific (Tokyo), Asia Pacific (Singapore), and EU (Ireland). Additional locations are on the way.
“We are excited to share with AWS customers the expertise we’ve developed during two decades of using machine learning to deliver great experiences on Amazon.com,” said AWS’ VP of machine learning Swami Sivasubramanian. “Customers have been asking for Amazon Personalize, and we are eager to see how they implement these services to delight their own end users. And the best part is that these artificial intelligence services, like Amazon Personalize, do not require any machine learning experience to immediately train, tune, and deploy models to meet their business demands.” Personalize, which was announced last year at Amazon’s re:Invent conference, is a fully managed service that trains, tunes, and deploys custom machine learning models in the cloud by provisioning the necessary infrastructure and managing things like data processing, feature extraction, algorithm training and optimization, and hosting. Customers provide an activity stream from their apps and websites — e.g., clicks, page views, signups, and purchases — in addition to an inventory of the items they want to recommend (such as articles, products, videos, or music) and optional demographic information (like age or geographic location). They receive results via an API and only pay for what they use.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Above: A diagram illustrating the Amazon Personalize process.
Amazon charges five cents per GB of data uploaded to Personalize and 24 cents per training hour used to train a custom model. Real-time recommendation requests are priced based on how many requests are uploaded, with discounts for larger orders.
Domino’s, Yamaha, Subway, Bollywood on-demand video host Spuul, and wedding company Zola are already using Personalize to highlight musical instruments in store catalogs, deliver ingredient and flavor recommendations, and devise individualized style combinations.
“At Subway, guest experience matters. Using Amazon Personalize, we can quickly deliver personalized recommendations for our endless varieties of ingredients and flavors to fit the unique lifestyles of our busy guests,” said Subway executive Neville Hamilton. “Amazon Personalize lets our team … curate recommendations without requiring machine learning expertise. We are looking forward to continuing to work with Amazon Personalize to provide the best experience to our guests who want to eat fresh. We have already successfully tested using Amazon Personalize to provide recommendations to guests making orders from our app, and are excited to expand into personalized app notifications in the near future.” Personalize is the latest fully managed AWS service to hit general availability after Textract , which uses machine learning to parse data tables, forms, and whole pages for text and data. In somewhat related news, Amazon in March launched AWS Deep Learning Containers , a library of Docker images preinstalled with popular deep learning frameworks.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
