Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages OctoML raises $3.9 million for deep learning model optimization Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn OctoML (and Apache TVM) founding team -- CEO Luis Ceze is second from left.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
OctoML today announced the close of a $3.9 million funding round to grow its engineering team and prepare for the release of a SaaS service for machine learning engineers. The service aims to automate machine learning optimization with the open source Apache TVM software stack. TVM is used today by companies like Facebook, Amazon, and Microsoft to run models efficiently in the cloud or on edge hardware.
Madrona Venture Group led the funding round, with participation from Amplify Partners. OctoML cofounder and CEO Luis Ceze is also a part-time general partner at Madrona Venture Group and heads its technical advisory board.
TVM was created four years ago as part of a collaboration between University of Washington colleagues like Ceze and Carlos Guestrin. It was developed to address the problem of mapping machine learning models to cloud and edge hardware like CPUs, GPUs, or FPGA accelerators.
TVM was made part of the Apache Software Foundation in March and counts more than 250 contributors.
“The key magic in TVM is to use machine learning to optimize machine learning code,” Ceze told VentureBeat in a phone interview. “Once you have a model that you’re ready to run … you want to bridge the gap between what the model wants to do and what the hardware can do and then make that as efficient as possible.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! TVM uses machine learning to automate the optimization of machine learning models after being trained with a framework like TensorFlow or PyTorch.
“There’s quite a bit of work that needs to be done once you have a model to make sure that our model runs well on a specific hardware target,” Ceze said.
Data collected during optimization experiments to discover efficient mappings between models and hardware is used to train TVM’s machine learning and improve model optimization.
OctoML was founded in July 2019 and is based in Seattle, with 10 employees.
Other AI startups that received funding for machine learning optimization include Ople , and Determined AI, which raised an $11 million funding round led by GV in March.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
