Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple releases macOS Mojave with Dark Mode, Apple News, and HomeKit Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
As promised during September 12’s Gather Round event in Cupertino, Apple today released macOS Mojave — aka macOS 10.14 — to the general public. Mojave was originally revealed in beta form during Apple’s Worldwide Developers Conference in June 2018, and has since evolved through 11 developer betas into today’s final release.
Though Mojave is substantially focused on under-the-hood improvements, it includes several major changes to the Mac’s Finder, as well as a small collection of apps that were ported from iOS. On the Finder side, Apple has introduced a system-wide Dark Mode, which optionally reskins the entire user interface with black or dark gray elements. Dark Mode pairs up with Dynamic Desktop, which can automatically adjust certain desktop images in sync with time of day (morning, afternoon, and evening) changes.
Mojave includes macOS-optimized versions of Apple News, Home, Stocks, and Voice Memos, which now look and work nearly the same across iPads and Macs. From a consumer perspective, these previously iPhone- or iPad-specific apps add extra features to the Mac, notably including the platform’s first official support for HomeKit accessories through the Home app. On the developer side, these apps served as internal Apple tests of an initiative called Marzipan, which over the next few years will enable iOS apps to be ported to the Mac with minimal UI changes.
Smaller quality-of-life additions make Mojave a nicer OS to use every day. A new feature called Desktop Stacks auto-arranges common desktop items into stacks based on content, date, or tag, so screenshots all appear as a single-icon pile rather than filling your desktop with clutter. Additionally, Gallery View in the Finder lets you preview and make minor photo adjustments to items in folders without opening the Photos app.
Less conspicuously, Mojave also includes a wide variety of new security enhancements, including lockdowns of camera and microphone access, enhanced protection of private data, and new Safari features to stop cross-site tracking and user fingerprinting. It also features an updated version of the Mac App Store, using the “editorially curated” design and related features pioneered in the iOS App Store.
Mojave can be installed on Macs “introduced mid-2012 or later,” including the following models: MacBook (Early 2015 or newer) MacBook Air (Mid 2012 or newer) MacBook Pro (Mid 2012 or newer) Mac mini (Late 2012 or newer) iMac (Late 2012 or newer) iMac Pro (2017) Mac Pro (Late 2013) Mac Pro (Mid 2010 and Mid 2012) will be supported if they include a Metal-capable GPU It’s unclear whether today’s release of Mojave will include support for Group FaceTime, an update to the FaceTime app designed to permit dozens of people to participate simultaneously in voice or video calls. The feature was yanked from iOS 12.0 and Mojave betas at a relatively late stage of development, and is expected to be added back at some point in the fall — potentially at a rumored October Mac and iPad event.
macOS Mojave can be downloaded now from the Mac App Store here.
 The 5.7GB operating system is available worldwide as a free upgrade for Mac users.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
