Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google adds Edge TPUs to power AI prediction on devices Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google announced Edge TPUs today, AI chips designed for IoT devices.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google’s Tensor Processing Unit (TPU) — a chip custom-built for its machine learning framework, TensorFlow — is heading to edge devices. Today at the Cloud Next conference in San Francisco, the Mountain View company announced Edge TPU, an architecture tailor-made for industrial manufacturing and internet of things devices.
Edge TPUs aren’t quite like the chips that accelerate algorithms in Google’s data centers — those TPUs, the third generation of which the company announced at its I/O Developer conference in May, are liquid-cooled and designed to slot into server racks. They’ve been used internally to power products like Google Photos, Google Cloud Vision API calls, and Google Search results.
By contrast, Edge TPUs, which measure about a fourth of a penny in size, run calculations offline and locally, supplementing traditional microcontrollers and sensors. And they don’t train machine learning models — instead, they run inference (prediction) with a lightweight, low-overhead version of TensorFlow that’s more power efficient than the full-stack framework.
Above: Google’s Edge TPU are tiny.
That said, both TPUs are cut from the same cloth — they’re application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs), programmable chips optimized for specific workloads. That makes them highly efficient at performing tasks like training machine learning models from datasets (in the Cloud TPU’s case) and executing those models on-device (the Edge TPU’s function).
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Edge TPUs will be made available in October in a modular reference board consisting of an Edge TPU, an NXP chip, and a Wi-Fi module. Google said it has partnered with manufacturers like Arm, Harting, Hitachi Vantara, Nexcom, Nokia, and NXP to bring the kits to market.
One of the first partners to deploy the Edge TPUs is LG, which has used them inside inspection devices on production lines. The chips, which help to examine more than 200 images of glass per second during the production of LCD television panels, deliver 99.9 percent accuracy, Shingyoon Hyun, chief technology officer at LG’s CNS group, told CNBC.
In addition to Edge TPUs, Google announced a host of new G Suite and Google Cloud features, including an AI-powered grammar tool, enhanced documents search, a FIDO key, and new AutoML services.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
