Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Betaworks launches Voicecamp startup accelerator around AI assistants and Alexa skills Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Amazon Echo Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Early-stage startup investor Betaworks announced today that it plans to launch a startup accelerator this spring for the makers of artificial intelligence-powered virtual assistants like Alexa, Google Assistant, and Cortana.
Early-stage companies working on a prototype or beta version of an Alexa skill or Google Assistant action are invited to apply.
Betaworks was an investor in companies like Giphy, Venmo, Kickstarter, and bot startup Howdy.
With partners like General Electric and Google, Voicecamp will begin in April and take place in the Betaworks office in New York City. Launch Capital and Betaworks will invest $125,000 in each startup in exchange for eight percent of company stock.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “Voice and audio-based computing represent the evolution of conversational interfaces into more natural and frictionless end-user experiences,” said Betaworks VP Patrick Montague in a Medium post today. “As computers become more seamlessly embedded into our daily lives, in connected homes, in automobiles, and in various wearable and augmenting devices, voice-based interfaces will become a staple of human-computer interaction.” Virtual assistants are growing in popularity and continue to proliferate to products beyond smart speakers like Amazon Echo and Google Home.
At the Consumer Electronic Show last week, Alexa integrations were announced for Whirlpool washing machines, NVIDIA smart home products, and Ford cars.
 Software development kits for Google Assistant and Cortana are expected in early 2017.
After Voicecamp, Betaworks will launch a startup accelerator for augmented or mixed reality companies later this year.
Betaworks launched Botcamp, its first startup accelerator for early-stage chatbot companies, last summer.
According to information provided to VentureBeat by Betaworks, nearly 350 applications were submitted for Botcamp, and roughly one-third of applicants were interested in enterprise, bot creation platforms, or making personal assistants.
Companies chosen for Botcamp include CareerLark, which makes a Slack bot to help people meet career goals, and Hugging Face, whose bot is meant to have conversations with you. You can see video of pitches from each of the eight Botcamp companies on YouTube.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
