Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Databricks raises $250 million for its data processing and AI platforms Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Data processing company Databricks today announced the close of a $250 million funding round that raises its valuation to $2.75 billion. The round was led by Andreessen Horowitz, with participation from Microsoft, New Enterprise Associates (NEA), Battery Ventures, and Geodesic.
Databricks was founded by the creators of Apache Spark, an open source framework for distributed computation across multiple machines used in many deep learning projects today. The group of data and machine learning researchers first met at UC Berkeley.
“How do you go from those datasets on your customers and transform them into these mathematical matrices — which is the language that the machine learning algorithms understand — and then … run machine learning algorithms on those matrices? It’s doing that end to end that Spark enabled, and that’s the power of Spark, really,” Databricks CEO Ali Ghodsi told VentureBeat in a phone interview.
Like use of Kubernetes and Docker containers and the Python coding language , Apache Spark for distributed computing at scale has grown in popularity with the adoption of machine learning.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The funding will be used to grow Databricks’ engineering ranks in Amsterdam and India and expand its Unified Analytics offering to more customers in Europe, Middle East, Africa (EMEA) and Asian Pacific (APAC) regions. The company will also explore initiatives tailored to specific industries, such as retail, health care, life sciences, media and entertainment, and government.
Funds will also be used to improve the Databricks Delta processing engine for Apache Spark optimization and MLflow , a platform to track and reproduce machine learning experiments and launch them into production. MLflow made its debut last year and can combine data processing capabilities with popular frameworks like Facebook’s PyTorch or Google’s TensorFlow.
The Databricks Unified Analytics platform — made to address the lack of communication between data scientists and engineers — is currently used by more than 2,000 organizations, including Nielsen, Overstock, and HP.
Databricks is also incorporated into popular public cloud offerings, like Amazon Web Service, and in fall 2017 Databricks partnered with Microsoft to launch Azure Databricks, a native integration unlike others undertaken by Microsoft.
Databricks was created in 2013, and the Apache Software Foundation took over the Apache Spark open source project in 2014.
Headquartered in San Francisco, Databricks currently has 600 employees, with major offices in Amsterdam, Singapore, and London.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
