Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages 5 IPOs that show the importance of data in 2020 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
The amount of data being generated continued to soar in 2020. And with the rollout of 5G networks, the deployment of edge computing, and the expanding adoption of cloud computing, most projections show the creation and collection of data continuing to accelerate.
Earlier this year, IDC had projected that 59 zettabytes of data would be “created, captured, copied, and consumed” in 2020, up from 41ZB in 2019. By 2024, that number is expected to reach 149ZB.
“The amount of data created over the next three years will be more than the data created over the past 30 years, and the world will create more than 3 times the data over the next five years than it did in the previous five,” the report said.
For enterprises, this makes data an essential raw material for maintaining a competitive edge. But truly harnessing that data remains an elusive task for many.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! That has created a massive opportunity for startups that can help enterprises solve their data problems. And in 2020, the momentum behind data startups propelled five to IPOs that demonstrate just how vital — and lucrative — data has become: Kingsoft Cloud IPO: May 8, 2020 IPO price: $17 December 28 Price: $45.25 The Chinese company provides cloud distribution and storage that includes public cloud, enterprise cloud, and IoT cloud services. It is also developing a blockchain platform for the gaming industry.
Offering data services and analytic s has become one of its key products.
ZoomInfo IPO date: June 3, 2020 IPO price: $21 December 28 Price: $44.84 ZoomInfo provides a SaaS platform that delivers marketing intelligence to companies to generate sales and recruiting leads. The company mixes data contributed by humans, as well as machine learning that is constantly crawling websites and public documents to amass databases of potential contacts for its enterprise users.
Snowflake IPO date: September 16, 2020 IPO price: $120 December 28 Price: $323.04 Snowflake sells a cloud data platform that consolidates a business’ data. This data warehouse startup has been on a tear since raising a $450 million round of venture capital in 2018 and was one of the biggest IPO listings of 2020.
Palantir IPO date: September 30, 2020 Reference price: $7.25 EOY price: $27.75 Palantir went public through a direct listing. The Peter Thiel-founded company analyzes vast quantities of data for a wide range of enterprise customers, but also some more controversial clients, such as the CIA.
C3.ai IPO date: December 9, 2020 IPO price: $42 EOY price: $161.00 C3.ai has developed an AI platform that targets enterprises. Its solution works across industries ranging from manufacturing and utilities to retail and health care.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
