Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Andrew Ng unveils the AI Fund, with $175 million to back new startups Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Coursera cofounder Andrew Ng.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
AI superstar Andrew Ng has spent the past year launching a handful of new initiatives, and now he’s at it again with the AI Fund, a startup incubator that will back small teams of experts looking to solve key problems using machine learning.
The fund has $175 million in its war chest to fund AI startups that arise within its walls. Rather than bring in outside startups and provide them with funding, Ng’s vision is to have small teams working on projects that can evolve into larger companies. It’s similar to what he did at Baidu , where he led the Chinese search giant’s artificial intelligence efforts.
Ng will serve as the incubator’s general partner and lead the AI Fund’s direction. Eva Wang, a former partner at national law firm Fenwick & West, will serve as partner and COO. The fund has some big name backers, including Greylock Partners, New Enterprise Associates (NEA), Sequoia Capital, and SoftBank Group.
The AI Fund currently has several teams investigating a number of problem spaces. Ng didn’t disclose how many teams there are or the areas they’re working in, but privacy is one of the proposed benefits of the fund. Rather than asking teams to spend time showing their products to investors and other members of the public, the incubator enables them to work in relative stealth until they’re ready.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! One company meets that first barrier to readiness: Ng’s startup Landing.ai.
 That company, which he unveiled last year, focuses on creating machine learning applications to help manufacturing businesses compete.
Ng sees this as the right time time for something like the AI Fund, since there are plenty of investors trying to hitch their financial wagons to the intelligent future of computing. What’s more, he thinks the teams the fund will be backing have a shot against larger players in the market because of the expertise needed to effectively deploy AI in production.
The Fund will be focused on providing funding at the seed and series A stages of a company’s lifecycle, and startups that emerge from its incubation will also have the benefit of accessing Ng’s professional network when it comes to raising money in the future.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
