Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Asana raises $50 million from Sam Altman, Mark Zuckerberg, and others Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Asana cofounders (and investors) Dustin Moskovitz and Justin Rosenstein.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Task management software startup Asana is announcing today a $50 million round of funding. Several known entities in the technology industry are participating in the new round, which is led by Y Combinator president Sam Altman.
Other investors in the round include Joe Lonsdale’s 8 VC, Tony Hsieh’s VTF Capital, Mark Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan, Andrew Mason, Roger McNamee, Adam D’Angelo, Founders Fund, Eric Ries, Divesh Makan, Ruchi Sanghvi, and Aditya Agrawal. Asana founders Dustin Moskovitz and Justin Rosenstein also participated.
“This capital will help fuel the next two years of the company to help us make work tracking more pervasive across the world, make Asana easier and more powerful for both small teams and giant companies, and continue striving to build the best team and culture for the work at hand,” Moskovitz and Rosenstein wrote in a blog post.
 They predicted that the startup should be profitable within the next few years.
Asana helps teams of employees track who’s doing what — along the lines of Trello, Wrike, Basecamp, and Microsoft’s recently acquired Wunderlist, among others.
 But the hot new thing is team communication, with apps like Slack making it possible for many people to collaborate and talk. This is not unlike enterprise social networks such as Microsoft’s Yammer, Atlassian’s HipChat, and VMware’s Socialcast.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Asana says its monthly and annual recurring revenue are more than doubling each year. The startup was founded in 2009 and last raised money in 2012.
Asana launched a major redesign in September. Since then, the startup says it’s taken on more than 3,000 paying customers.
Sam Altman has a blog post on his investment here.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
