Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Slack confidentially files for IPO Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Slack logo at Slush 2018 conference in Helsinki, Finland Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Slack has finally filed to go public, in what will be one of the most hotly anticipated initial public offerings (IPOs) from the technology industry in 2019.
The San Francisco-based cloud collaboration platform, which was launched back in 2013, was one of a number of technology companies expected to go public in 2019. Other notable names include Lyft and Uber , both of which confidentially filed for their respective IPOs back in December, while Pinterest and Airbnb are also expected to announce their arrivals on the public stock market later this year.
Slack is continuing with this recent trend by filing its Form S-1 confidentially too — the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) started allowing companies of any size to file confidentially back in 2017, having previously restricted this to smaller firms with revenue of less than $1 billion.
“The public listing is expected to take place after the SEC completes its review process, subject to market and other conditions,” Slack said in a press release.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! A Reuters report from December indicated that Slack, which has raised around $1 billion in venture capital (VC) funding, had hired Goldman Sachs for its IPO, and was seeking a valuation of “well over” $10 billion. Additionally, Slack could become the second major technology company in the space of a year to pursue a direct listing , according to reports, after Spotify did so last year.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
