Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Asana raises $75 million from Al Gore’s fund, others to grow its task-management app globally Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Asana cofounders (and investors) Dustin Moskovitz and Justin Rosenstein.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Productivity-focused task-management startup Asana has announced a fresh $75 million round of funding led by Generation Investment Management (GIM), the London-based investment firm cofounded by Al Gore. Existing investors 8VC, Peter Thiel’s Founders Fund, Sam Altman, and Asana’s very own Dustin Moskovitz also participated in the round.
By way of a quick recap, Asana was created by Facebook cofounder Dustin Moskovitz and Justin Rosenstein, a software engineer who played a key role in developing early Google products such as Gmail chat and helped create the “Like” button when he joined Facebook as engineering lead in 2007. The duo left Facebook in 2008 to kickstart Asana — though the product didn’t launch to the public until 2012 — and Asana went on to secure some notable investors, including Mark Zuckerberg , Sean Parker, Peter Thiel, and Marc Andreessen.
The idea behind Asana actually began while Moskovitz and Rosenstein were at Facebook, where they wanted to improve Facebook employees’ productivity — they felt that they were spending too much time on “work about work,” such as task-planning. According to Rosenstein, he felt this represented a “Facebook-sized opportunity all on its own.” Above: Asana launched in German last year Asana claims 30,000 clients globally, including Uber, Airbnb, Google, Spotify, Tesla, Dropbox, Samsung, NASA, Snap, and — yes — Facebook. Until fairly recently, Asana hadn’t really pushed its business outside the U.S., though it did set up a small team in Dublin, Ireland a couple of years ago to further its European ambitions. In an interview with VentureBeat back in November , Asana said that around 40 percent of its revenue and 45 percent of its paying customers are now outside the U.S., and it has expanded its interface beyond English into French and German, with plans for Spanish, Portuguese, and Japanese later this year.
The San Francisco-based company has now raised around $163 million in funding, and with its latest cash injection Asana said it plans to turbocharge its international expansion and push further into the enterprise.
The company added that it’s now valued at $900 million, putting it just short of the much-coveted “unicorn” status.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
