Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Dapulse raises $25 million for its project management tool Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Dapulse team Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Dapulse , a startup that provides a project management tool for businesses, today announced a round of $25 million, led by Insight Venture Partners.
Based in Tel Aviv, Israel, the startup offers software as a service (SaaS) to help businesses centralize emails, PowerPoint presentations, and meetings on a single website. Dapulse claims to have more than 10,000 paying teams around the world. Customers include Adidas, AT&T, Samsung, Uber, and WeWork.
The startup offers four pricing tiers that range from basic to enterprise — the basic plan starts at five users for $25 per month and goes up to $118 per month for additional users and features.
Above: Dapulse platform Dapulse isn’t the first or the only company to address project management in the workplace. Asana, Basecamp, Microsoft Project, and Atlassian’s Jira and Trello are among the well-established existing products in that category. Roy Mann, a cofounder and the chief executive of Dapulse, clearly understands this. “We are working on an integration for Jira so that at large companies, Dapulse can provide a high-level view and connect R&D [research and development] to other departments in conjunction with Jira’s functionalities,” he wrote in an email to VentureBeat.
Entree Capital and Genesis Partners joined Insight Venture Partners in today’s round, raising Dapulse’s total capital to $34.1 million. The startup will use the new money to open an office in the U.S. and to further develop product integrations for other applications.
Founded in 2012, Dapulse currently has over 50 employees.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
