Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Coursera for governments and nonprofits launches to ‘close the growing skills gap’ Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Coursera Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Online education company Coursera has launched a new offering aimed at governments and nonprofits , as the company promises to “close current and emerging skills gaps in the global workforce.” The new initiative kicks off this week with a range of government agencies and not-for-profit organizations signed up, including the Institute for Veterans & Military Families (IVMF) and Coastal Counties Workforce in the U.S. But the scope of the program extends far beyond the U.S. and into Egypt, Mongolia, Singapore, Malaysia, Pakistan, and Kazakhstan.
Those signed up to the platform can access tailored programs built specifically for the requirements of their market, including digital manufacturing, business English, and data science. There are some notable education partners on board, too — including the University of Michigan, University of Pennsylvania, and Stanford University — which makes it possible for organizations to give their employees access to university-level courses and certifications, while analytics allow managers and learners to track their progress.
The underlying problem that many online education platforms are trying to capitalize on is the growing skills gap , particularly as robots and automation are expected to result in 5 million lost jobs within the next three years. So people need to gain the tools to prepare for the rising digital labor market.
“The skills gap can no longer be ignored as a major force driving world events,” said Coursera CEO Rick Levin. “Millions of people lack the skills needed for new and better jobs, and increasing automation will only widen the gap. Governments and nonprofits focused on workforce development are eager to work with us and our university partners to deliver skills education to populations at unprecedented scale.” Founded out of Mountain View, California in 2012, Coursera partners with educational institutions to serve more than 20 million online students a range of courses across business, technology, science, and other disciplines. With around $150 million in VC investment, Coursera is one of many MOOCs — massive open online courses — to emerge in recent years . Other players in the space include Udemy, which raised a $60 million round last year, and the likes of Duolingo and Udacity, which are also going from strength to strength.
Today’s news comes less than five months after Coursera introduced a new business-focused program to tap the billion-dollar corporate elearning market.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
