Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Coursera raises $64 million to expand its corporate e-learning business and master’s degree programs Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Coursera for Business Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Online education company Coursera has raised $64 million in a series D round of funding led by GSV Asset Management, with participation from New Enterprise Associates (NEA), Kleiner Perkins Caufield Byers (KPCB), Learn Capital, and the Lampert Foundation.
Founded in 2012, Coursera partners with universities and educational institutions to deliver online courses to more than 26 million students, covering technology, business, science, and more. The Mountain View-based company is one of a number MOOCs — massive open online course — to emerge in recent years. Rivals include Udemy, which closed a $60 million round last year to take its total funding past the $170 million mark; Duolingo, which recently raised $45 million ; and Udacity, which celebrated five years in business.
Back in August, Coursera for Business launched to tap the billion-dollar corporate e-learning market, followed shortly by a version specifically for governments and nonprofits. And a few months back, Google and Coursera partnered to introduce Cloud Platform training courses for businesses.
Today’s funding round represents Coursera’s biggest single round to date and takes its total funding past the $210 million mark. The company said it will use its fresh cash influx to expand its Coursera for Business initiative and grow its fully accredited master’s degree programs, of which it launch two back in 2015. It recently added two more — a Master’s in Innovation and Entrepreneurship (OMIE) from HEC Paris, and a Master’s of Accounting (iMSA) from the University of Illinois. With the funding, it also plans to “accelerate product innovations” across the board, according to a company statement.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “As the industry leader in online higher education, we have a massive opportunity ahead of us in preparing people, companies, and governments to respond to the changing nature of jobs and to take on the urgent challenges of workforce transformation,” noted Coursera CEO Rick Levin, in a press release.
 “This round of funding enables us to continue innovating across our platform to deliver better learner outcomes and to accelerate the momentum we have in our new initiatives — enterprise and degrees.” Coursera for Business constitutes one of the company’s biggest avenues for growth. Indeed, some reports suggest that the corporate e-learning market was worth $12 billion in the U.S. alone in 2015, with some estimates pegging the figure at $31 billion globally by 2020.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
