Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Tencent joins $10 million investment in robotics delivery startup Marble Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Marble's team Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Emerging robotics startup Marble has raised $10 million in a series A round of funding from Tencent, Lemnos, CrunchFund, and Maven Ventures.
The San Francisco-based company debuted its autonomous food-delivery robots last April in partnership with Yelp and later announced a partnership with DoorDash.
 During various trials with local eateries in San Francisco, customers’ meals were placed inside the bot’s cargo bays, which customers unlocked with an access code upon arrival.
Above: DoorDash & Marble Founded in 2015, Marble had hitherto raised $5 million, and with another $10 million in the bank the company said it plans to further develop its technology and expand into new U.S. markets. Indeed, Marble has already expanded beyond San Francisco to the East Bay, and it is also planning a second generation model of its robot for later this year that will be made available in other cities across the U.S.
Additionally, Marble said it plans to double down on its “last-mile logistics” efforts, which will include looking beyond food delivery to pharmaceuticals and the broader retail realm.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “The way that goods are delivered to your doorstep hasn’t changed,” noted Marble CEO and cofounder Matt Delaney. “We need to move toward a more efficient, sustainable supply chain model where we’re solving for the logistical headaches that plague the ecommerce economy, like stolen packages, order returns, and failed delivery attempts. While self-driving cars are still years away, we’re excited about the short-term possibilities for our robots to re-architect this new economy we live in.” Nabbing Tencent as an investor is a major boost for Marble’s artificial intelligence (AI) ambitions. Tencent recently announced a new robotics lab in China to help bring its own AI research to life, and the Chinese tech titan has invested in other robotics-focused startups recently, including China’s Ubtech , as well as previously investing in California-based educational robot company Wonder Workshop.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
