Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Bossa Nova raises $17.5 million for retail robots that monitor inventory Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A photo shows one of Bossa Nova's robots at work.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Bossa Nova, a company that builds robots to track inventory on store shelves, announced today that it has raised a $17.5 million round of series B funding.
Paxion Capital Partners led the round, which included participation from Intel Capital, WRV Capital, Lucas Venture Group, and Cota Capital.
The company’s robots are designed to autonomously navigate a store and take stock of what’s on the shelves. In theory, this should automate a tedious and time-consuming task that was previously done by sending humans around to check on stock levels for each item.
The infusion of cash comes at a critical time in Bossa Nova’s history, as the company has already begun deploying its robots inside Walmart stores. Right now, the company is operating within 50 Walmart stores.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Martin Hitch, Bossa Nova’s chief business officer, said in an interview that the company plans to use the funds to bring on new talent in key teams, with a special focus on people who can help with the autonomous navigation systems for the robots, as well as boosting the AI capabilities used for scanning shelves.
This new funding builds on a $14 million round that Bossa Nova announced last year and brings the company’s total amount raised to $41.7 million.
Hitch said one of the key reasons for raising new capital is that the company wants to keep its lead in data and deployment of its technology.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
