Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Robotics startup Exotec raises $3.5 million to help warehouses pack and dispatch goods using mini robots Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Exotec Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
A French robotics startup has raised €3.3 million ($3.5 million) to build and grow a fleet of mobile robots that help warehouses prepare orders for delivery.
The company was founded in 2015 by former GE Healthcare software architect Renaud Heitz and BA Systèmes technical director Romain Moulin, and Exotec Solutions (“Exotec”) robots have already been tested across a number of industries. With $3.5 million more in its coffers, the company expects to launch its first robot — called Exo — into the wild in early 2017. The most recent round was raised from 360 Capital Partners, Breega Capital, and a handful of its existing investors.
The miniature robots are being targeted at any logistics operator that relies on humans to traverse large warehouses picking items off shelves, and it promises to cut employees’ average daily distance covered from 15km to 4km per day and to “[double] the productivity” of each worker. The robots are controlled by what the company calls a “centralized intelligence system,” which liaises between the humans and the robots on the ground.
Above: Exo Above: Exo Exotec hasn’t disclosed how much capital it had raised prior to now but said it will use its latest cash injection to turbocharge its product and its commercial development, as well as tripling its workforce to 30 over the next six months. “The additional funds will allow us to boost our commercial development as we prepare to announce several partnerships with key players in the logistics industry,” explained Moulin, who also serves as CEO.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “We are also finalizing the second generation of our product, powered with greater intelligence and preparation capabilities, ahead of its launch at the Intralogistics Europe in March 2017,” added Heitz, the company’s CTO.
Robotics and unmanned vehicles are ripe for investment across multiple industries. Earlier this year, Bossa Nova raised $14 million for robots that help ensure retail store shelves are always stocked — its machines analyze stock on shelves and collect data to optimize inventory. And in the U.K., food delivery giant Just Eat is investing heavily in delivery-by-robot.
Elsewhere, med-tech startup Cambridge Medical Robotics (CMR) recently raised $20 million for its robot-assisted surgery smarts; France’s Navya nabbed $34 million for driverless shuttle buses; Zipline raised $25 million for its automated drones that deliver blood, vaccines, and medicines; and Prenav grabbed $6.5 million to help companies inspect their buildings and properties using drones.
“Mobility applied to logistics, and more specifically to order preparation is a rapidly growing sector,” added Francois Collet from 360 Capital Partners. “The global market for order preparation is estimated at around $30 billion, and in France alone, there are over 5,000 warehouses. Exotec Solutions has developed a new generation of logistics robots to address this genuine demand. The company has the potential to become a champion in its category.” Meanwhile, you can check out an Exo robot in action in the video below.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
