Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 42% of CIOs say utilizing resources is the top challenge with cloud services Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
According to a new report by Zesty , despite widespread adoption of cloud services and the critical role these resources play for businesses, 58% of respondents viewed the search for the best cloud offering to match their workload needs as the most difficult element of managing cloud costs.
 Similarly, 42% of CIOs and CTOs surveyed identified appropriate resource utilization as their top challenge. This difficulty has led to a 67% annual increase in the portion of the company’s technology budget allocated to cloud services, from 29% in 2021 to 47% in 2022.
All respondents either have a finops strategy in place or have a plan to adopt finops. However, only 29% define their strategy as mature or evolving, 62% are still growing, and 9% haven’t yet begun.
According to 42% of respondents, the top cloud priority pre-pandemic was security investments, but with the financial hit that many organizations took due to COVID-19 , this has since dropped to fourth place (18%) for the next 12 months. It has been replaced by revenue-related goals such as aligning speed of IT delivery with speed of business (25%), ensuring compliance needs are met (22%), and increasing direct revenues (20%).
Forty-two percent of CIOs and CTOs reported resource utilization as the top cloud challenge today. Over-provisioning combined with an inability to scale quickly often leads to significant cloud waste.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Results are based on a survey of 100 CIOs and CTOs in the U.S. and the U.K. who are charged with managing multicloud or hybrid cloud environments for their organizations, which spanned between 250 and 1000 employees.
Read the full report by Zesty.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
