Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Why Amazon created AWS Kinesis, its live data processing service Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
NEW YORK — Metering is an essential part of Amazon Web Services.
Amazon records how much data its AWS customers require so companies only pay for what they use, explained Amazon’s Ryan Waite onstage at GigaOM’s Structure Data conference on Thursday. Because Amazon customers generate tens of billions of records daily — and lots of apps could benefit from access to that data — Amazon needed a system that could capture those tiny pieces of data in real time.
Kinesis is a service for real-time processing of streaming data that Amazon launched in December.
 It’s designed to capture those tiny records, which make up a huge amount of backend data in aggregate. Amazon wanted to be able to capture all of that data, aggregate it, and put it into its AWS cloud storage service (S3) so it could go back and look at it later.
“This enables us to scale the metering service to new limits and give alerts in real time,” said Waite, who serves as general manager of data services for AWS.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Kinesis enabled Amazon to increase its load to billions of records from millions of files, or terabytes of data per hour. All of the data gets stored in Kinesis for 24 hours, and it can be offloaded to Amazon S3 for later examination.
Waite characterized the service as “incredibly cheap” — a million PUT transactions costs a customer 2.8 cents — and immensely useful for AWS customers. He highlighted digital marketing company Bizo, which uses Kinesis to bolster its real-time analytics of its clients’ online ad campaigns.
“With Kinesis, they can sit down side-by-side and watch the campaign as it’s happening,” said Waite.
Waite also pointed to billion-dollar game developer Supercell , which makes the massively popular mobile game Clash of Clans.
By using Kinesis, “They can see what’s working in the game and what’s not working in the game and make changes.” Cloud infrastructure services have been rolling out more data tools for their services over the past couple of months, and Amazon has led the pack with Kinesis. Its nearest competitor is the open-source Apache Storm.
 By pointing to the value the service generates for customers, Amazon is pressuring competitors to either clone Kinesis — no easy task — or distinguish themselves with special data tools of their own.
Related articles Amazon shows how real-time data connections can benefit you Amazon launches Kinesis service so apps can tap real-time big data Amazon is making itself more and more indispensable to mobile game developers Amazon keeps up cloud momentum with higher speed storage and retrieval Amazon taps Hadoop-based Impala to speed up customers’ big data queries VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
