Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 77% of enterprises have adopted multicloud hosting Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
A new report by Intricately pulls the curtain back on the 11 million buyers spending a combined $250 billion on cloud infrastructure – revealing the top prospects and biggest opportunities that sellers can start pursuing today.
Intricately’s analysis of today’s cloud infrastructure market illustrates rapid growth in the past two years spurred by the rise of multicloud , a popular IT management strategy that nearly 80% of all enterprises have already implemented for their hosting services, and nearly 60% in the case of CDN (Content Distribution Network). Multicloud’s promises of lowered costs and vendor lock-in elimination are impacting the CDN and cloud hosting markets in particular, with adoption of the three leading providers ( Amazon Web Services , Google, and Microsoft Azure) increased by 20% in 2021.
Adoption of multicloud for both cloud hosting and CDN has not uniformly impacted the market. Small-to-midsize companies (50-250 employees) show the lowest level of multicloud adoption at just 10%, trailing even startups (1-50 employees) at 22% multicloud adoption.
With vendor lock-in becoming less prevalent with the move to multicloud, cloud sellers can feel confident pitching their solutions even to those partnered with their competitors. For cloud sellers eager for specific market insights, the report highlights global top prospects with high cloud spend potential and cloud infrastructure demand exceeding $1 million per year, including global consumer brands like Bacardí, Iberia Airlines, and Sweetgreen.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Data for the report was gathered through observation, rather than surveys or meta-analysis. Intricately’s Global Sensor Network collects data from publicly deployed applications to deliver insights into how millions of global businesses are using cloud solutions – and how much they’re spending.
Read the full report by Intricately.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
