Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Capital One Ventures partners with Securonix on cloud-native security analytics in $24M deal Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
As more enterprises move to the cloud, the field of threat analysis is evolving by shifting to a cloud-native architecture. Over time, this will lead to human researchers augmented by AI and machine learning.
That’s essential for a company like Capital One, which is rushing to scale defenses as its cloud presence expands. To catalyze that new analytics model, the financial giant’s venture arm today announced it has invested $24 million in Securonix , a security startup that has developed a cloud-based security information and event management (SIEM) platform.
“Cloud-native and scalable architectures are the direction where this market is going to go, and Securonix is built cloud-native from the ground up,” Capital One Ventures Partner Jay Emmanuel said. “We believe this is the architecture that will lend itself to the scale and the resiliency that’s going to be required in a few years.” Securonix has created a SaaS-based security analytics suite of tools that reduces infrastructure costs and allows for greater scalability. Those tools gather data that is fed to the company’s 450 security analysts who help track vulnerabilities and attacks.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! But according to Securonix CEO Sachin Nayyar, the company is beefing up its AI and machine learning capabilities to augment that work so more of it can be automated.
“Cybersecurity provides the most velocity and variety of data that you will see in any part of the organization,” Nayyar said. “And we all know that cyber analysts have been drowning in this.” Emmanuel said Capital One knows it needs greater automation to meet the growing pace of cyberattacks.
“We believe it’s going to evolve into being more AI and machine learning-driven,” he said. “There’s going to be a significant amount of machine assistance to the human operators in threat detection and incident response activity.” The SIEM space has become highly competitive.
 Nayyar says Securonix has been growing rapidly because it offers three advantages: a foundation built on data analysis ; a cloud-based approach to security; and a low price point for customers, thanks to the lack of additional infrastructure needed.
While the latest funding will help continue this work, Nayyar said the partnership with Capital One is just as critical. Capital One Ventures is taking a seat on the board and Securonix will be working closely with Capital One to explore product enhancements and use cases related to monitoring cyberattacks.
Nayyar also hopes to use that development partnership to springboard into other security areas, such as IoT and mobile.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
