Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Community How cloud computing has changed the future of internet technology Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Cloud computing has evolved as a key computing paradigm, allowing for ubiquitous simple on-demand access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources through the Internet.
As companies move much faster on their digital transformation journey , companies are looking for ways to increase agility, business continuity, profitability and scalability.
Cloud computing technology will be at the heart of every strategy to attain these aims in the new normal.
Cloud computing is large-scale network computing. It runs a cloud-based application software on servers scattered throughout the internet.
The service allows users to access files and programs stored in the cloud from anywhere, eliminating the need to be near physical hardware at all times. Because the material is stored on a network of hosted computers that transport data over the internet, cloud computing makes the papers accessible from anywhere. Cloud computing proved to be beneficial to individuals as well as businesses. To be precise, the cloud has changed our life as well.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The future of cloud technology Cloud technology allows businesses to scale and adapt quickly, accelerating innovation, driving business agility, streamlining operations and lowering costs.
 This will not only help companies get through the current crisis, but it could also contribute to improved, long-term growth. Here are some forecasts about how cloud computing will influence the future.
Increased storage capacity Today, data generation is at an all-time high, and it’s just getting higher. It’s difficult to keep such a big amount of data safely. Most businesses continue to keep business and customer data in physical data centers.
Cloud server providers expect to offer additional cloud-based data centers at lower prices as more organizations use cloud technology. Because there are so many cloud service providers on the market today, prices will be competitive, which will help businesses. This advancement will allow for seamless data storage without the need for a lot of physical space.
Improved internet performance IoT can improve the quality and experience of utilizing the internet ( internet of things ). Using cloud computing and IoT, data may be stored in the cloud for subsequent reference, in-depth analysis and improved performance. Customers and businesses want applications and services to load quickly and to be of excellent quality. The network will have faster download and upload speeds as a result of this.
Modular software prioritization Individual programs are becoming increasingly sophisticated and large; as a result, cloud computing technologies will eventually require advanced system thinking. Currently, most system software necessitates extensive customization, which means that even cloud computing solutions used by businesses necessitate extensive customization in terms of functionality and security. This new program must be more user-friendly and versatile.
Because future applications will be stored in locations other than the cloud, software development can be viewed from a variety of perspectives and approaches. This could include various modules as well as cloud service servers. This is also a good way to cut software and storage costs. It means that these software solutions will be considerably faster and more agile in the long term, saving time and money.
IoT and cloud computing Another important technology of this decade is IoT (the internet of things). With advances in cloud computing and real-time data analytics, it is always changing. M2M communication and data sharing are two processes that happen at the same time. With cloud computing, all of this is easy to handle.
Enhanced cloud services Cloud computing provides a variety of services. Platform-as-a-service (PaaS), software-as-a-service (SaaS) and infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS) are the leading ones. These services are critical to attaining business objectives. Many studies and assessments have indicated that cloud computing will be a dominant technology soon, with SaaS solutions accounting for over 60% of the workload.
Better security Data saved on cloud servers are currently secure, but not totally. Smaller cloud service providers may not be able to supply or comprehend all of the safeguards required for appropriate data protection. To prevent cyberattacks, future cloud services will use better cybersecurity safeguards and enforce better safety practices. As a result, businesses will be able to focus on more important duties rather than worrying about data security or alternate data storage techniques.
The economic influence of the cloud and cloud technology If cloud computing continues to evolve at its current rate or faster, the demand for hardware will minimize. Virtualization, cloud computing, and virtual machines (VMs) will be used for most operations and business processes. As a result of this advancement, the expenses of setting up physical infrastructure and software installations will be greatly reduced, resulting in lower hardware utility. Furthermore, as cloud computing advances, data analysis and interpretation will become completely automated and virtualized, eliminating the need for human intervention.
Cloud technology and safer collaboration Collaboration is an important part of many businesses, and cloud computing can provide team members anywhere in the world with fast, easy, and reliable collaboration. Any member of the team can access the files in the cloud at any time to review, update or receive feedback.
Conclusion Many internet services are now cloud-based, and physical infrastructure will fail to support large businesses. Business innovation relies heavily on cloud computing. Cloud technology allows new ways of working, operating, and running a business because of its agility and adaptability.
 Make sure your company is ready for this shift as cloud computing technology continues to gain traction in worldwide industries.
Roshna R is a digital marketing analyst at InfinCE.
DataDecisionMakers Welcome to the VentureBeat community! DataDecisionMakers is where experts, including the technical people doing data work, can share data-related insights and innovation.
If you want to read about cutting-edge ideas and up-to-date information, best practices, and the future of data and data tech, join us at DataDecisionMakers.
You might even consider contributing an article of your own! Read More From DataDecisionMakers The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! DataDecisionMakers Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
