Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages How Walmart is getting more out of its data thanks to Nvidia’s Rapids Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Forecasting demand for products used to take Walmart weeks. Now, with the help of Nvidia, this key component of supply chain management can be completed in a matter of hours.
Walmart is among the first companies to work with Nvidia’s open source Rapids software , which allows the retail company to more easily churn data through GPUs that run at many times the speed of traditional CPUs.
Rapids enables Walmart to run the software it already uses on GPUs, rather than requiring the company to use Nvidia’s programming platform CUDA.
“The whole goal of Rapids is really to change nothing, just to make it really easy to use, and leverage all the speed and power of the GPU,” Nvidia general manager of data science Josh Patterson said at Transform 2019.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Walmart chief data officer Bill Groves said the software has opened up new possibilities. Because it can now rely more on the faster computing of GPUs, for example, Walmart is able to use computer vision in previously prohibitive situations. This means the company can get more from data it’s already gathering — from sources such as the Bossa Nova robots that scan merchandise in the aisles of a growing number of Walmart stores.
Rapids and the expanded use of GPUs mean Walmart will also be able to better account for one-off bursts of interest in specific products, said a spokesperson. For example, when Elmer’s Glue suddenly surges in popularity at an unexpected time of year because kids are making slime , Walmart can now account for the trend and ensure glue is on the shelves.
It also means Walmart can better leverage data collected by handheld devices its personal shoppers use and help those employees work more efficiently. Additionally, Walmart can ensure there’s sufficient merchandise on shelves for both personal shoppers and customers shopping in person for themselves, the spokesperson said.
Just as important, the expanded capacity to use data means the company can more quickly and easily keep products customers don’t want off the shelves. Data isn’t collected just from store shelves, but throughout the supply chain and away from the eyes of customers.
“These are problems we can solve today that we couldn’t have three months ago, six months ago, two years ago,” said Groves.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
