Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google and Qualcomm collaborate to accelerate AI development Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Qualcomm today at its Snapdragon Summit 2021 announced a collaboration with Google Cloud to bring the latter’s Neural Architecture Search to Qualcomm platforms. The move is designed to speed up the development of AI models at the edge.
Qualcomm claims the announcement will make it the first system-on-a-chip (SoC) customer to offer the Google Cloud Vertex AI Neural Architecture Search services. It will first be available on the Snapdragon 8, Gen 1 Mobile Platform, followed by the Snapdragon portfolio across mobile, IoT, automotive, and XR platforms.
As AI/ML hardware has become more widespread, attention has turned to the software stack, which often consists of point solutions. Optimizing develops MLOps workflows for AI and with this collaboration, Qualcomm aims to speed up the development of AI models for Snapdragon at the edge.
Google Cloud announced Vertex AI Neural Architecture Search in May as a unified platform for developing, deploying, and maintaining AI models. According to Google, training models with Vertex AI required almost 80% fewer lines of code compared to other platforms. Google claims it’s the same toolkit that is used internally to power Google, ranging from computing vision to language and structured data.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Vertex AI consists of various tools, but Qualcomm specifically called out the Neural Architecture Search. As the name implies, it seeks to optimize AI models. Vertex AI NAS will be integrated into the Qualcomm Neural Processing SDK, and will run on the Qualcomm AI Engine.
“With this collaboration, Qualcomm Technologies will now be able to build and optimize new AI models in weeks rather than months, and we’re thrilled at the impact this will have on people using Snapdragon-powered devices,” June Yang, vice president of Cloud AI and Industry Solutions at Google Cloud, said in a statement.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
