Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Cloud infrastructure spending grew 35% to $41.8B in Q1 2021 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Digital generated image of data server.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Global cloud services infrastructure spending grew to $41.8 billion in Q1 2021, a 35% year-on-year (YoY) rise and 5% quarter-on-quarter (QoQ) increase.
The figures, published by research and analytics firm Canalys , follow hot on the heels of the “big three” public cloud companies releasing their quarterly earnings data. Amazon revealed that its AWS cloud unit grew revenue by 32%, a notably faster pace than many analysts had predicted, while both Microsoft’s “commercial cloud” and Google Cloud Platform (GCP) also reported accelerated growth. However, it’s difficult to compare these figures, given that Microsoft and Google bundle their respective cloud-based software (i.e. Office and Google Workspace) alongside their server infrastructure for quarterly earnings reports.
Canalys defines “cloud infrastructure services” as companies that provide both infrastructure-as-a-service and platform-as-a-service. While it excludes direct software-as-a-service (SaaS) expenditure, it does include revenue generated from the infrastructure services used to operate them.
At 32%, AWS still leads the pack in terms of public cloud infrastructure services spend, followed by Microsoft’s Azure at 19% and Google Cloud at 7%.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! It’s worth noting that Q1 2021 was the first time cloud infrastructure services spending passed the $40 billion mark in a given quarter, with real-term spending growing by nearly $11 billion compared to the same period last year. The main driving force in Q1, much like every quarter over the past year, has been the pandemic-driven rapid digital transformation enveloping industries from construction to local offline eateries.
 Moreover, remote work has played a major role in accelerating demand for services across the cloud communication and collaboration space.
Last week, Gartner predicted public cloud spending was on course to reach $332 billion in 2021, up 23.1% on last year’s $270 billion.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
