Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Transcend: Cookie consent banners hurt rankings Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn If only it were so easy to enable privacy on our mobile devices.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Three quarters of technology executives agree that cookie consent banners negatively impact their website’s user experience and want to eliminate them, but not at the cost of customer trust, according to a new study by privacy engineering company Transcend.
 The study asked technology executives about the current state of consent tools.
Above: 75% of respondents would remove their company site’s cookie consent banner if doing so would not result in negative legal ramifications and would not impact customer trust.
Many companies are accustomed to tracking customers to deliver personalized experiences. With modern privacy laws , like the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation , companies are now required to notify customers through a consent banner or pop-up before they can begin tracking. Pulse surveyed 100 global technical leaders on how they manage user tracking and consent preferences on their company’s websites.
In the survey, leaders acknowledge they face a strained balancing act between customer trust and their customers’ online experience. Cookie consent banners often negatively impact their site’s user experience and, if there were no legal or negative brand implications to face, leaders would remove them from their websites.
Shockingly, this report found that the vast majority (79%) of businesses admit that their user data tracking across the company’s websites and channels is not fully compliant. An even greater majority (90%) were not able to confirm that they were aware of all types of tracking technologies operating on their company’s website. Modern day trackers go beyond cookies and third-party scripts – tracking components can live in everything from web beacons to pixels, fonts to stylesheet loads.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Pulse surveyed 100 Directors, VPs and C-suite executives from global companies ranging from 200 to 10,000+ employees in Q2 2021.
Read the full 2021 Consent Report from Transcend.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
