Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 33% of devs say data privacy is a big obstacle for the metaverse Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Young woman using virtual reality (VR) headset Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
A third (33%) of developers believe data privacy and security are the biggest hurdles the metaverse has to overcome. This is according to a new study from Agora , which polled 300 developers to gain further insight into their thoughts and perceptions as it relates to the current state of metaverse and what the future holds.
The metaverse has been labeled as game-changing by many experts across a wide range of industries and for developers, allowing for the development of new communities and the ability to better connect with users. Gaming and entertainment have the opportunity to benefit most from the metaverse. When asked which industry will benefit the most or experience the greatest positive impact from the metaverse, the developers who were surveyed put gaming and entertainment at the top, with 26% each.
Emerging technology is allowing for better social experiences in the metaverse, thanks in large part to advancements in extended reality, or XR.
As technology continues to progress at this rate, there’s a real chance that the metaverse could mark the center of human interactions in the future. Since the metaverse will allow users to have more engaging and connected experiences, 72% of developers believe it will be critical for real-time engagement (RTE) technology, such as interactive, two-way digital video and audio, to be implemented. RTE will be key since the social aspect will be essential to the success of the metaverse, and 55% of developers can see it replacing real-life, in-person social interactions and experiences within the next five years.
The rise of cryptocurrencies and interest in the metaverse has made currency a popular point of discussion, as well. More than half of the developers surveyed believe NFTs will continue to grow and become the dominant form of currency in the near term. As a result, the majority of developers also believe cryptocurrency and blockchain technology advancements will be critical to shaping the future of the metaverse.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Read the full report by Agora.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
