Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Lightspin: 46% of AWS S3 buckets could be misconfigured and unsafe Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Cloud misconfigurations expose organizations to significant risk, according to a new analysis of Amazon Web Services (AWS) Simple Storage Service (S3) buckets conducted by Lightspin , a cloud security provider. In-depth research into 40,000 AWS buckets and their cloud storage permissions found that 46% of AWS S3 buckets could be misconfigured and should therefore be considered unsafe, Lightspin said.
Above: A diagram that explains how AWS evaluates access and assigns definitions to objects within S3 buckets.
Misconfigured S3 buckets can open your cloud environment up to a huge amount of risk. Public read access could lead to a data breach, while public write access can launch malware or encrypt data to hold your company ransom.
Certain AWS cloud storage permissions are currently complex and even obtuse, as one of the AWS access options is defined as “Objects can be public.” As AWS evaluates the access permissions of all files at the bucket level, rather than the object level, an object’s ACL is not considered. In short, the definition “Objects can be public” doesn’t allow organizations to definitively understand whether their objects are accessible or not. The diagram above can help to visualize which objects would be given this classification.
Lightspin’s research revealed that more than 40% of AWS S3 buckets have this definition attached, on top of the 4% that are defined as public. As part of this research, the company created a free, open source Python tool that scans the cloud environment in full and clarfies which objects are public and which are not.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Read Lightspin’s full research into the risks of misconfigured S3 buckets.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
