Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages QuestDB launches ‘database-as-a-service’ with $12M investment Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
On Wednesday, QuestDB announced a $12 million investment in its series A round to support expanding the features of its time-series database while also launching a database-as-a-service (DBaaS) for customers who want to use the database without managing servers. The investment suggests deeper interest in using the so-called time-series databases , which are tuned for absorbing a steady stream of data from sensors or other relentless sources.
“The idea is to build features to unlock even more adoption to make sure that even more companies can get started with the product and use it at scale,” Nicolas Hourcard, the CEO and cofounder of QuestDB, explained in a video interview with VentureBeat.
The company already bills QuestDB as the “fastest open source, time-series database.” Hourcard explains that one of their first moves will be to simplify cluster management, so the database can be run in parallel over a cluster or pod of instances to spread out the workload for injection. Offering rock-solid performance in the face of unending data streams is key.
“All the sensors are just sending this data all the time, non-stop,” said Hourcard. “That’s really one critical thing [for time-series databases]. The load is constant. So if there’s one blip in terms of performance at some point, it’s not reliable. Say you pause for one minute, and you lose all this data forever. It’s gone, right? So that’s where sort of time-series performance is super, super important.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! After that, QuestDB wants to pursue expanding the options for charting and analysis. They also want to integrate the database with Python , so users will be able to work directly with the data using their favorite Python libraries without exporting the data from QuestDB. Instead of waiting for the data to be imported into a separate Python process, Hourcard sketched out a vision of a system where the query results would arrive immediately in a Python data frame ready for analysis.
The company which took part in Y-Combinator’s S20 batch announced that much of the new funding comes from 468 Capital, Uncorrelated Ventures, and open source founders such as Tom Preston-Werner, cofounder at GitHub, Sebastien Pahl, cofounder at Docker, Alexis Ohanian, cofounder at Reddit, Mirko Novakovic cofounder at Instana, Andrey Alekseev, cofounder at NGINX, and Tobi Knaup, the CEO at D2iQ, as well as top industry executives Michael Li, VP Data at Coinbase, and Grace Francisco, VP Developer Relations at Cisco.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
