Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Community It’s time for startups to get proactive and prioritize security Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Founding a company is hard work. Between the start-up costs and time invested in insurance, equipment, sales, and payroll, early-stage technology thinkers and leaders have their hands full. However, arguably the most important aspect, and the one that is most notoriously neglected, is security.
Unfortunately, for many businesses it can be challenging to prioritize the implementation of time-consuming security protocols when those resources could be spent on marketing, hiring talent, accelerating digital transformation, and finding funding.
After years of work to mature their organization, founders do not want to slow down or backtrack. If their data hasn’t been protected or their security is not in line with zero trust protocols (i.e. granting users the minimum requisite level of access to preempt data breaches), their next phase of growth could be inhibited. In addition to high-profile hacks and data breaches hitting an all-time high in 2021, companies must be proactive and guard against a wide range of cyber threats including application security vulnerabilities and distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks. Startups can’t wait until they’re prepping their company to go public to beef up security measures — at that point it may be too late.
Fortunately, there are several tools and practices startups and midsize organizations can implement to ensure their platforms are safe and sensitive data is protected.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The best way to bolster security measures, especially when it comes to data security, is to build it into software while it is being developed, not after. While this may extend the time it takes to develop and test software — a stressful concept for eager founders or CIOs — it’s much easier than the last-minute panic of integrating security measures after a product has been developed, or worse, hacked.
Security technology measures such as role-based access control (RBAC) and single sign-on (SSO) are key features to build into any software from the onset. It’s also worthwhile ensuring that all products, data protection, and privacy measures are compliant with GDPR requirements and meet ISO security standards, HIPAA requirements (for organizations in the healthcare space), and crucial security certifications such as SOC2 Type II, CCPA, and PCI compliance.
Another security measure — arguably the most popular and effective — is multi-factor authentication (MFA). According to a recent report from Okta , MFA is estimated to prevent 99.9% of account takeover incidents. This is significant because it forces a higher level of verification for passwords that are notoriously susceptible to being guessed by hackers. In fact, according to the same Okta report, the most popular password of 2021 was 123456, revealing that most people choose to create memorable passwords rather than secure ones. MFA allows founders, CIOs, and security departments to rest easy knowing they are safe from a lack of care in password selection.
Finally, it’s best practice for companies to take a proactive approach to data security and always encrypt their data from the get-go. There is a common misconception that encryption is too complicated or expensive, but in reality, there are a variety of ways to make it affordable and it’s essential for protecting sensitive, confidential data. Encrypted data can be safely stored in the cloud. And cloud offerings are quickly becoming more effective than on-premises servers by providing both encryption in transit and encryption at rest. As data privacy becomes a growing concern for customers, startups and midsize organizations can be lightyears ahead of their competitors by taking a “data safe” approach from the beginning, ensuring that extra level of security on a journey to zero trust.
Startups and midsize organizations cannot take security measures and protocols lightly. For startups quickly scaling with mobile apps, websites, and software, simply instituting multi-factor authentication can make a massive difference in the security of their users’ data.
With extra layers of protection from RBAC, SSO, MFA, and data encryption, founders and technology leaders can comfortably grow their businesses and customer base without fear of data breaches and hacks. As organizations grow and do more with their data, startups can set themselves up for maximum market potential knowing they have a robust security model and are well on their way towards zero trust.
Prashanti Aduma is CIO of Dialpad.
DataDecisionMakers Welcome to the VentureBeat community! DataDecisionMakers is where experts, including the technical people doing data work, can share data-related insights and innovation.
If you want to read about cutting-edge ideas and up-to-date information, best practices, and the future of data and data tech, join us at DataDecisionMakers.
You might even consider contributing an article of your own! Read More From DataDecisionMakers The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! DataDecisionMakers Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
