Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Autonomous drone startup Airobotics raises $30 million to accelerate U.S. expansion Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Israel’s Airobotics today announced it has raised a $30 million round of funding as the company continues to build out its U.S. operations.
Founded in 2014, the company has developed a commercial pilotless drone that self-deploys and then returns to its base, where robotic arms handle chores like changing the battery and various components. No human intervention is needed. The drones have proven to be particularly popular with mining companies, but are targeting a wide range of industries such as utilities and warehouses.
In late September, the company announced it was opening a North American headquarters in Scottsdale, Arizona to oversee its business in South America and Central America as well. The latest funding will help continue to grow that site, which Airobotics plans to eventually make its global headquarters.
“Airobotics is experiencing massive momentum and expanding across geographies,” said Ran Krauss, CEO and cofounder of Airobotics, in a statement. “We are honored that Pavilion Capital sees the huge potential in Airobotics’ technology and aerial data solutions. We have a strong business pipeline and to keep up with demand for our technology, we are continuing to expand operations across the countries in which we operate, specifically our new headquarters in the U.S.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! As with many drone companies, part of the challenge for Airobotics going forward is to obtain permission to fly its drones “Beyond Visual Line of Sight” or BVLOS in industry parlance. The company said some of the latest funding would be used toward its efforts to work with regulators around the world.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
