Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Bright Machines raises $179 million for factory automation with robots Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Bright Machines today announced the closure of a $179 million funding round and launched out of stealth. The company aims to automate manufacturing operations in factories and make manufacturing hardware as simple as building software is today.
Bright Machines was founded six months ago in part by former Autodesk interim CEO Amar Hanspal, while former lon Autodesk CEO Carl Bass sits on the company board of directors. Autodesk alum are joined by former Autodesk and Flex employees.
Bright Machines operates on the belief that low-cost manufacturing in developing nations has reached its limits as more economies enter the middle class and factories encounter challenges hiring employees at the lower pay rates that have been common in the past. This shift coincides with advances in deep learning and robotics.
“Our long-term goal is to demystify and democratize manufacturing. We want to make making physical things as easy as it is to make digital things,” Hanspal told VentureBeat in a phone interview. “We believe manufacturing is ready for its next big shift, which is to really bring software to the factory floor and drive machines using software rather than labor.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The $179 million in funding will be used to expand the Bright Machines team and accelerate the business’ software roadmap and its robotics operations, Hanspal said.
Bright Machines now has almost 400 employees at offices in San Francisco and Tel Aviv, as well as operating inside factories in China and Mexico. The startup will initially turn its focus to products for customers creating electronics.
“Literally everything in this world — from the car in your driveway to diagnostic machines in hospitals to the coffee maker in your kitchen — is now increasingly driven by electronics. And the first vertical that we’re going after is the assembly and inspection of electronics in a box, so you can imagine routers, security devices, infotainment centers in cars — those kinds of things represent electronics in a box that’s the brain or nervous system of modern products,” Hanspal said.
Alongside employees working in factories, Bright Machines has hired software engineers with a focus on computer vision, robotics, and machine learning to work with the founding team, whose members possess expertise in CAD prototyping for the creation of hardware.
The $179 million funding round was led by Eclipse, with participation from Flex.
Bright Machines joins a series of companies attempting to bring more automation and knowledge gleaned from IoT sensors to industrial settings.
While Canvass Analytica raised $5 million with backing from Google’s Gradient Ventures for its industrial IoT AI, Oracle introduced AI for factories last year.
Microsoft launched its Azure IoT Edge out of beta in June and signed a five-year deal with Walmart in July for tracking things like HVAC and refrigerator systems.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
