Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 63% of IT pros say cyberthreats are top obstacle to cloud adoption strategy Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
According to a new report by Confluera , while the vast majority of IT security professionals experienced an increase in their workload last year, the leading cause for this was the accelerated adoption of cloud infrastructures coupled with continued high rates of cyberattacks. Survey results also suggest that the adoption of cloud services is the leading cause of security concerns for IT security professionals.
According to Confluera, 66% of IT professionals surveyed said that cloud adoption is the biggest contributor to the increase in their IT security workload. As organizations changed their strategy in 2021 to support prolonged or permanent support of remote and virtual workforces, the adoption of cloud services greatly accelerated.
The overwhelming majority (97%) of IT security professionals responding to the survey confirmed that their cloud strategy includes the expansion of cloud deployments. Not only is cloud deployment expanding in scale, but it’s also expanding across platforms such as AWS, Google Cloud and Azure. The results are consistent with the growing trend of adopting multi-cloud services to support the diverse needs of the organization.
IT professionals identified cybersecurity concerns as the main challenge for general cloud as well as multicloud adoption. Approximately 63% of IT professionals named cyberthreats that are designed to target cloud services as the top obstacle to cloud adoption. Similarly, 69% of IT professionals identified the need for consistent security coverage across all cloud infrastructures as the biggest barrier to multicloud adoption.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! As organizations accelerate their cloud adoption and expand their strategies to include multicloud, cybersecurity exposure can, and will, throw a monkey wrench into their plans. Layer on top the ever-increasing investigation of false alerts and the resulting alert fatigue, and organizations can easily find themselves with the need to continually innovate yet be unable to do so due to the security implications.
In December 2021, Confluera commissioned an independent research firm to survey 200 U.S. IT professionals using a national network of verified panel providers. The margin of error for this study is +/-5.9% at the 95% confidence level.
Read the full report by Confluera.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
