Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Netlify Graph helps eliminate ‘messy backend integration work’ for third-party APIs Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Computer programmer illustration Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Let the OSS Enterprise newsletter guide your open source journey! Sign up here.
Netlify , the company behind a platform used by developers to build, host, and scale web projects, today announced what it calls a “new approach” to building with APIs that it hopes will boost developer productivity.
Netlify, which counts customers such as Citrix, Verizon, and Twilio, helps companies move away from traditional monolithic web apps to a decoupled architecture, where the front- and backends are separate. Using Netlify, developers connect their code repository, add build settings, and then Netlify takes care of deployment and the necessary infrastructure.
Netlify Graph, which is available now in open beta , is all about APIs (application programming interfaces) — it enables developers to securely read, write, and subscribe to data from third-party APIs without managing authentication tokens or having to write any API-specific code — single-click authentication is the name of the game.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “Netlify Graph simplifies how developers build, which in turn lifts up the entire ecosystem — it will also make decoupling developers’ monoliths into a Jamstack architecture much easier,” Netlify’s head of ecosystem Den Delimarsky told VentureBeat. “Teams that were previously handcuffed to monolithic plugins will be able to unlock the vast ecosystem of third-party APIs and services for their web applications.” The announcement comes just a few months after Netlify raised $105 million and acquired OneGraph , a GraphQL-based tool for building third-party integrations. GraphQL, which Facebook open-sourced back in 2015 , is helping to power the burgeoning API economy and the push towards microservices — that is, software built from smaller purpose-built components that are easier to maintain versus giant monolithic applications. GraphQL APIs give developers flexibility to query specific data from disparate sources, and makes cross-platform app development simpler.
Messy backend integrations Built atop GraphQL, Netlify Graph promises to “eliminate the messy backend integration work” involved in working with APIs, with pre-built integrations at launch for GitHub, NPM, Salesforce, Spotify, Stripe, Box, and Contentful.
“This is a huge boost for developer productivity and accelerates time-to-market,” Delimarsky said. “There’s no denying APIs are core to building modern web applications, but we’re seeing developers spending more and more time discovering, securing, and governing all these APIs, which is actually creating more complexity and taking them away from focusing on business value. Discovering APIs can be easy, but the bigger challenge is governing and combining them into a more cohesive experience.” And so, Netlify Graph essentially gives developers a more unified way of authenticating and building using APIs, making it easier to integrate and consume third-party services directly through the Netlify interface.
After a short period in private beta which required users to specifically activate the feature, Netlify Graph is now enabled by default for all Netlify customers. While the company hasn’t revealed what other integrations it might include in the future beyond the initial five, its OneGraph acquisition gives a hint as to what might be around the corner — OneGraph currently supports Zendesk, Trello, Intercom, HubSpot, Slack, among others.
“This is only phase one and we plan to add more integrations over time,” Delimarsky confirmed.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
