Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Komodor automates Kubernetes troubleshooting for faster code updates Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
The good news about Kubernetes and microservices is that they allow enterprises to deploy updates and new features faster and at higher volumes. Unfortunately, that’s also the bad news because if something goes wrong, it can be tremendously complex for the DevOps team to go back and figure out what caused the problem.
Tel Aviv-based Komodor launched 18 months ago to streamline and automate that troubleshooting process. By centralizing data about all updates and changes, the platform allows DevOps to pinpoint and repair an issue in a fraction of the time it would normally take.
“There are two things that we realized that are happening at once,” Komodor cofounder and CEO Ben Ofiri told VentureBeat. “With the migration to the cloud, everything is code today. And the second thing that happened is the adoption of microservices and specifically Kubernetes. Both of those things combined led to the fact that companies today can move much faster.” Today, the company officially came out of stealth mode and announced it had raised $21 million.
 Accel led the round, which included funding from previous angel investors, such as GitHub CTO Jason Warner, Atlassian CTO Sri Viswanath, Snyk cofounder Danny Grander, Logz.io CEO Tomer Levy, and Aqua Security cofounder Amir Jerbi. The company has now raised a total of $25 million.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! DevOps challenges Ofiri experienced the growing challenge facing DevOps while working at Google on its Duplex conversational AI project. He cofounded Komodor with Itiel Shwartz, now CTO, who previously worked as an engineer at eBay.
Above: Komodor cofounders: CTO Itiel Shwartz (left) and CEO Ben Ofiri.
As the adoption of Kubernetes and microservice s began surging a couple of years ago, the pair saw how DevOps teams were struggling to keep pace with troubleshooting demands. Alerts would go off and teams would be scrambling to decrypt the issues and work through the growing complexity, often spending hours trying to reconstruct what updates had been pushed out across various parts of the network and infrastructure.
“Companies are making thousands of changes every day,” Ofiri said. “So on one side, it’s great, right? The CEO today likes to see that we made tons of changes. It probably means that we pushed out new features and fixed all the bugs. But the downside, whenever something is off, the first question you ask yourself is, ‘What the heck changed in the system?'” Fixing a hole To address this issue, the Komodor platform connects to an enterprise’s IT infrastructure and immediately begins scanning all of it to create a single, unified view of all changes. That includes data from all deploys, configuration changes, past incidents, and data from any third-party services integrated into the enterprise.
Now when there’s an alert, rather than going over scattered logs for different aspects of the system, the DevOps team can just look at the Komodor dashboard.
That dynamic is what attracted Accel to Komodor, according to partner Seth Pierrepont. He said the firm had been tracking a paradigm shift happening within the enterprise around developers taking responsibility for incident response. Many of them don’t have the skillsets to navigate all parts of the IT system.
“The problem, and this is particularly an issue with microservice infrastructure because of its inherent complexity, is that the developers just aren’t equipped with either the tools or the experience to deal with these issues,” Pierrepont said. “And so when you have an incident with your infrastructure, they end up on this kind of treasure hunt trying to figure out what changed, what happened, what went wrong. Komodor says: ‘Let me actually abstract away a lot of this complexity and serve up the answer about what changed in a single pane of glass and help you troubleshoot just far more efficiently than you were able to do … in the past.” Komodor is already live with customers, which is helping the company continue development of the product. Over time, Ofiri said the company wants to expand from a diagnostic posture to help prevent issues and eventually automatically repair problems.
“I want to be the platform that helps people to understand what happened, to manage the issue, and to prevent it from happening again in your system,” he said.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
