Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Workday raises an astounding $85M for cloud HR and payroll services Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
If you’ve doubted that cloud-based services are going to take off in a big way, Workday wants you to put your foot in your mouth. The company has raised a new $85 million round of funding with a reported $2 billion company valuation.
Workday provides more than 230 companies with cloud services for human resources, payroll and financial management. While that may not initially sound exciting, those 230 companies account for more than 2 million users and unlike many new cloud-based startups, Workday has a track record of helping organizations cut costs and bringing them immediate value.
The company’s latest funding round includes mostly institutional backers rather than VC firms, a sign the company intends to go public. The round was led by T. Rowe Price, Morgan Stanley, Janus Capital, and Bezos Expeditions, the investment company of Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos.
“We believe the caliber of this group of investors underscores the market opportunity before us,” said Aneel Bhusri, Workday co-founder and CEO, in a statement. “The world’s largest and most global enterprises are moving their business management solutions to the cloud. With this capital, Workday will continue to expand its core technology, products, go-to-market capability, and administrative infrastructure.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! One area Workday has been focused on lately is the mobile experience , with its cloud offerings working in most mobile browsers and native applications for iPad and iPhone. The company has stated previously that it wants to make sure its users have secure access to critical real-time data no matter where they are.
Pleasanton, Calif.-based Workday was founded in 2005. It last raised a $75 million round in April 2009, with funding led by New Enterprise Associates and participation from previous backer Greylock Partners and Workday co-founder Dave Duffield. Its total funding has now reached an eye-popping $250 million.
CloudBeat 2011 takes place November 30 – December 1 in Redwood City, CA. Unlike other cloud events, we’ll be focusing on 12 case studies to dissect the most disruptive instances of enterprise adoption of the cloud. Using a customer-centric approach, these case studies will highlight the core components of the cloud revolution: security, collaboration, analytics, mobile usage, increased productivity, and integration. Join over 500 executives for two days packed with actionable lessons and networking opportunities as we define the key processes and architectures that companies must put in place in order to survive and prosper.
Register now and save 25%.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
