Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Kleiner Perkins and GV invest $21 million in AI health care startup Viz.ai Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Viz.ai Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Artificial intelligence (AI) health care startup Viz.ai has raised $21 million in a round of funding led by Kleiner Perkins, with participation from Alphabet’s venture capital arm GV.
Founded out of San Francisco in 2016, Viz.ai is setting out to leverage AI to detect early signs of time-sensitive medical conditions. The company’s first product is a software platform that analyzes brain scans for large vessel occlusions (LVOs), or strokes, and which received FDA clearance in February.
Someone has a stroke every 40 seconds in the U.S. alone, according to CDC data , which culminates in 140,000 deaths annually. And those who survive a stroke often suffer a long-term disability as a result. One of the underlying issues with treating strokes is that they can be difficult to diagnose, and the longer a patient goes without treatment the greater the chance of disability or death.
Using deep learning algorithms, Viz.ai’s software analyzes CT scans to spot stroke indicators and automatically alerts a neurological specialist. This all happens in minutes, which is crucial to the patient’s chances of a positive outcome.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Prior to now, Viz.ai had raised around $10 million in funding, and with another $21 million in the bank it plans to fund its expansion into new markets and grow the scope of its technology beyond strokes.
“In a stroke, every minute matters,” noted Viz.ai cofounder Dr. Chris Mansi. “Our goal is to fundamentally change health care, making it proactive rather than reactive. By integrating Viz, we believe health care systems can increase access to proven life-saving therapy and reduce the time to treatment across their referral network.” GV has a long history of investments in life sciences, having recently invested in medical research machine learning startup Owkin, clinical trial technology company Science 37, and next-gen vaccine development startup SpyBiotech. Google last year announced a new AI-focused venture fund called Gradient Ventures, which made its first medical sciences investment this year as part of an $8 million funding round in BenchSci to accelerate biomedical discoveries.
Kleiner Perkins, for its part, has invested in a number of AI and health care startups , so marrying the two areas with its latest investment makes sense.
“We were attracted not only to the technology behind Viz.ai and its impact on patient outcomes, but also to its adoption model,” added Kleiner Perkins general partner Mamoon Hamid. “Many new health-tech solutions struggle to gain traction because they are an outside-in sale to medical teams, requiring changes to procedures and workflows. In contrast, physicians and their teams are driving adoption of the Viz.ai platform because it is not disruptive to emergency room procedures and fits naturally into existing systems.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
