Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon expands services for AI training, translation, and transcription Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The AWS logo hangs in the Sands Convention Center in Las Vegas, Nevada on November 30, 2017.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Amazon Web Services announced today a new way for machine learning developers to build and deploy models through its cloud. The company’s SageMaker AI service gained support for a local mode that lets developers start testing intelligent systems on their personal computers before moving to the cloud.
Using local mode, a developer can first test out different approaches, then send them out to SageMaker for more extensive training on Amazon’s cloud. Customers also have a broader set of compute instances to choose from for powering that training.
In addition to the SageMaker news, AWS’ AI-powered transcription and translation services are now generally available for customers to use. Appropriately named Transcribe and Translate , these offerings allow companies to reap the benefits of AI capabilities without having to hire experts.
These pretrained services echo those that other companies like Microsoft, Google, and IBM already offer through their clouds. Prebuilt AI APIs are important tools for cloud platforms to attract and retain customers, and this launch opens up AWS for a set of new use cases. They join AWS’ existing AI services, including Lex for natural language understanding, Polly for speech generation, and Rekognition for image processing.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Both machine learning APIs received new functionality as part of the launches. Transcribe now allows customers to input custom vocabulary, while Translate will automatically detect the source language that customers input.
Right now, Amazon offers fairly limited language support for both services. Translate can turn Arabic, Simplified Chinese, French, German, Spanish, and Portuguese into English and vice versa. In the coming months, AWS plans to support Japanese, Russian, Italian, Traditional Chinese, Turkish, and Czech. Transcribe, meanwhile, works with Spanish and English.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
