Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple hires former Google AI chief John Giannandrea Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn John Giannandrea Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Apple today hired John Giannandrea, who was until recently in charge of Google’s search and AI departments. Giannandrea had been at Google since 2010, according to his LinkedIn profile , and in 2016 he began to head up Google’s search team.
Giannandrea’s departure from his role as Google’s AI chief was confirmed Tuesday. A Google spokesperson told TechCrunch that Giannandrea stepped down to “get more hands-on time with technology, and our understanding is that he will stay at Google.” Giannandrea will be one of 16 Apple executives who report directly to Tim Cook, according to the New York Times.
In his work heading up Apple’s machine learning and AI strategy, Giannandrea will influence products like Core ML for iOS app developers and the dedicated AI chip reportedly under development , as well as the struggling Siri assistant. Apple is currently looking to hire more than 150 people to staff its Siri team, a recruiting boom that did not go unnoticed.
While at Google, Giannandrea oversaw the implementation of more AI-powered features for its Gmail, search engine, and virtual assistant offerings as the company began to market itself as an “AI-first” company.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Giannandrea’s departure is the latest high-profile shakeup among Silicon Valley tech giants in the AI arena.
In a change that led to the departure of Windows chief Terry Myerson, last week Microsoft announced plans to focus more on its cloud and AI services. Last month, Alexa’s head AI researcher, Ashwin Ram, left Amazon to become the technical director of AI at Google.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
