Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Greylock scientist DJ Patil: “Data is the new black” Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn DJ Patil, vice president of product at RelateIQ Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
[youtube http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L2snRPbhsF0&w=640&h=360] Dr. DJ Patil (not actually a DJ) is the data scientist in residence at Greylock Partners , the renowned Silicon Valley venture capital firm, and in a talk at LeWeb London, he unleashes a mighty nerdgasm all about the power of big data.
He tells the audience “the demand for data scientists is at a record high” and that “data is the new black.” Forsooth, we’ve heard the same from stats nerds in similar positions all around Startuplandia, and we think he has some interesting points to share.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
