Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Salesforce's $392M RelateIQ acquisition is a done deal Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The deal might have gone down for a good bit of money, but if it leads to great steps forward for Salesforce, the deal could lead to a big payoff.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Enterprise company Salesforce.com shelled out big for cutting-edge cloud-software startup RelateIQ last month, and now the deal is done.
Altogether, the acquisition came out to $392 million, according to a new regulatory filing from Salesforce that became public today.
“I can confirm that we have closed our acquisition of RelateIQ,” a Salesforce spokeswoman wrote in an email to VentureBeat.
Altogether, the acquisition of RelateIQ, which helped salespeople document their work and figure out the best people to contact at companies in order to win deals, is the second largest in Salesforce’s 15-year history (behind last year’s $2.5 billion ExactTarget deal ). And it could lead to a major advancement for Salesforce. One source told VentureBeat that the RelateIQ team, which includes several data scientists, will form the basis of a new research-and-development team likely called Salesforce X.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! In any case, the final figure for the deal is a bit more than the approximation Salesforce originally disclosed last month, which was $390 million.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
