Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages White House taps Google’s Megan Smith as the country’s new CTO Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The White House has nominated Google executive Megan Smith as the country’s new chief technology officer, making her only the third person to assume the role since it was created.
Smith, who has an engineering degree from MIT, has a long history at Google, which includes stints as Google’s director of new business development and head of Google.org. She’s currently VP of Google’s experimental lab Google X, which is responsible for projects like Google Glass, Project Loon, and Project Wing, among others. Last week several reports placed Smith as a front runner for the CTO position, which the Washington Post is now confirming today.
Smith will replace outgoing CTO Todd Park , who stepped down from the position to take a new role focused on strengthening ties with the tech industry out of Silicon Valley, as VentureBeat previously reported.
Honored to join @WhiteHouseOSTP w @AMac.
http://t.co/dmP5k74fZB Thanks @Todd_Park for incredible service+legacy. Let's go #InnovationNation ! — Megan Smith (@smithmegan) September 4, 2014 “Smith will guide the administration’s information-technology policy and initiatives, continuing the work of her predecessors to accelerate attainment of the benefits of advanced information and communications technologies across every sector of the economy and aspect of human well-being,” presidential science advisor John Holdren said in a statement.
In addition to Smith, President Barack Obama also nominated Alexander Macgillivray as the country’s new deputy U.S. CTO. According to the Washington Post, prior to this, Macgillivray was the former general council head for Twitter, where he was known for advocating free speech.
Excited to be headed to @whitehouseostp to work w/ @smithmegan & other great folks in govt on technology policy. Lots to learn and do.
— Alex Macgillivray (@amac) September 4, 2014 VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
