Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Following Apple, Google is exploring differential privacy in Gboard for Android Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A search result in Gboard for Android.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google today talked about new research it has been doing to power search query suggestions in its Gboard virtual keyboard app for Android. This will involve training artificial neural networks on data that’s stored locally on mobile devices, instead of sending it all to Google’s fleet of servers.
In the past few days, Googlers have published academic papers on the two components involved: a concept called “ federated learning ” and the underlying privacy system, called “ secure aggregation.
” “When Gboard shows a suggested query, your phone locally stores information about the current context and whether you clicked the suggestion. Federated Learning processes that history on-device to suggest improvements to the next iteration of Gboard’s query suggestion model,” Google research scientists Brendan McMahan and Daniel Ramage wrote in a blog post.
McMahan and Ramage foresee using these same technologies to improve photo rankings “based on what kinds of photos people look at, share, or delete,” as well as the Gboard’s language models.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! This research arrives nearly a year after Apple said that it was deploying a concept called “differential privacy” to turn out smart QuickType and emoji suggestions in iOS 10.
Google’s system starts with the current model for making query suggestions, then learns over time from locally stored data, and then summarizes the changes with what Google calls an “update.” The update is what is sent back to Google in an encrypted fashion, and Google averages it with all of its other updates. The actual data stays local, and Google can only decrypt its average update if there are hundreds or thousands of users contributing to it.
The Google paper on secure aggregation for federated learning acknowledges differential privacy, a co-inventor of which, Cynthia Dwork, works at Microsoft Research. But Google has in fact explored differential privacy in the past, including with its randomized aggregatable privacy-preserving ordinal response (RAPPOR) work that’s been tested in Chrome. Now Google is looking at going deeper into the area and also implementing its secure aggregation model — which depends heavily on small encrypted summaries of data instead of actual data, whereas differential privacy entails incorporating random noise into calculations with data — with one of its more prominent apps. Gboard for Android currently has 500 million to 1 billion app installs, according to the Google Play Store.
Update on April 7: Added detail on the secure aggregation and differential privacy.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
