Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Facebook launches PyTorch 1.0 with integrations for Google Cloud, AWS, and Azure Machine Learning Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Facebook CTO Mike Schroepfer announces the release of PyTorch 1.0 at Facebook developer conference F8 on May 2, 2018 at the McEnery Convention Center in San Jose, California Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Facebook today announced the release of deep learning framework PyTorch 1.0 in developer preview, which includes a series of tools and integrations to make it more compatible with popular services from Google Cloud, Amazon Web Services, and Microsoft’s Azure Machine Learning.
Arm, Nvidia, Qualcomm, and Intel are also adding PyTorch support for things like kernel library integrations and tools to track inference runtime.
PyTorch was released to the public in January 2017 and has been downloaded more than 1 million times.
PyTorch 1.0 was first announced in May at the F8 developer conference , and includes deeper integration with Facebook’s Caffe2 and ONNX.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Back in May, Facebook VP Bill Jia and CTO Mike Schroepfer promised PyTorch 1.0 would launch with new pretrained models, tools, and libraries to give developers more flexibility and options.
To meet those needs, Google Cloud will introduce PyTorch support for a number of its services.
 Google and Facebook are also working together to make tensor processing units (TPU) for PyTorch users, Facebook said in a blog post today announcing the news.
Google Cloud Platform’s Deep Learning VM service for preconfigured AI will also include a VM image for PyTorch 1.0.
Amazon’s SageMaker will provide PyTorch users with preconfigured environments for things like automated model tuning.
Microsoft, which first partnered with Facebook a year ago on the development of the ONNX open source framework to make AI models created with different frameworks more portable, will also introduce several new resources for developers using PyTorch.
“Azure Machine Learning service now allows developers to seamlessly move from training PyTorch models on a local machine to scaling out on the Azure cloud. For data science experimentation, Microsoft is offering preconfigured Data Science Virtual Machines (DSVM) that are preinstalled with PyTorch. For developers looking to start exploring PyTorch without having to install software and set up a local machine, Azure Notebooks provides a free, cloud-hosted Jupyter Notebooks solution set up with PyTorch tutorials,” Facebook product manager Joe Spisak said today in the blog post.
Udacity will also introduce free online courses on how to use PyTorch, and fast.ai today released fastai 1.0, an open-source deep learning library built on top of PyTorch.
PyTorch version 1.0 rolls out in developer preview as part of the first-ever PyTorch developer conference, held today in San Francisco.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
