Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Cambridge Analytica is shutting down Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Screenshot from Cambridge Analytica's website Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Cambridge Analytica, the data analytics firm that was reported to have improperly obtained the data of up to 87 million Facebook users, is shutting down.
The Wall Street Journal first reported that both Cambridge Analytica and its parent company SCL Group were shutting down, citing SCL Group founder Nigel Oakes. However, a press release issued by Cambridge Analytica states that only Cambridge Analytica and SCL Elections, another affiliate of SCL Group, are shutting down.
According to Gizmodo , SCL Group chairman Julian Wheatland broke the news to employees during a conference call, saying that efforts to pivot or rebrand the company would prove “futile.” The press release issued by Cambridge Analytica stated that “over the past several months, Cambridge Analytica has been the subject of numerous unfounded accusations,” adding that “the siege of media coverage has driven away virtually all of the Company’s customers and suppliers. As a result, it has been determined that it is no longer viable to continue operating the business, which left Cambridge Analytica with no realistic alternative to placing the Company into administration.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Facebook suspended Cambridge Analytica and SCL Group from the platform in mid-March, hours before British newspaper The Guardian published a report from a whistleblower detailing how Cambridge Analytica improperly obtained Facebook user data. A researcher named Aleksandr Kogan created a personality app in 2014 called thisisyourdigitallife, which paid hundreds of thousands of users to take a personality quiz, in exchange for some of their Facebook data. At the time, the app also gave Kogan access to some data from the friends of the users who took that quiz. The app was created before Facebook changed its policies on the amount of data app developers could collect.
Kogan then gave that data to Cambridge Analytica, violating Facebook’s policies. Facebook sent a letter to Cambridge Analytica telling them to destroy the data in August 2016, but didn’t follow up to ensure that the firm did so.
The Guardian reported that Cambridge Analytica then used that data to create “psychological profiles” of U.S. voters for ad targeting. Cambridge Analytica was employed by Senator Ted Cruz’s (R-TX) campaign during the 2016 U.S. Presidential election, and then by President Donald Trump once Cruz ended his bid.
The instance became the poster child for Facebook’s failure to properly protect user data, and prompted Congress to call Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify in front of various committees.
Following the incident, Twitter also suspended Cambridge Analytica from advertising on its platform.
Updated at 3:58 p.m. to acknowledge conflicting news reports about whether or not SCL Group is shutting down in addition to Cambridge Analytica.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
