Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft invests $25 million in AI for accessibility developer program Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Microsoft today announced its AI for Accessibility program to explore ways artificial intelligence can improve the lives of people with disabilities. The company has pledged $25 million over the next five years to developers, universities, nongovernmental organizations, and others making AI-fueled solutions that serve those with disabilities.
Seed grants will be provided to initial endeavors, and the most promising projects will later receive larger investments. The program will also encourage Microsoft partner businesses to use AI for improved services for people with disabilities.
Examples of AI used to improve lives include Seeing AI, an app that uses computer vision to help blind people interpret the world around them, and learning tools to help kids with disabilities learn how to read. The Microsoft AI for Accessibility program will be run by Microsoft’s accessibility team and chief accessibility officer, Jenny Lay-Flurrie, who will make tools for developers and assist those interested in making AI accessible to everyone.
“Building on [the program’s] success over the past three years with developers and engineers across Microsoft, their expanded mission is to provide a new level of tools and support for developers and around the world,” Microsoft president Brad Smith said in a blog post.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! AI for Accessibility will focus on AI-powered solutions in three primary areas: work, life, and human connections for people with disabilities.
This isn’t Microsoft’s first initiative to democratize AI and make the world a better place. Last December, the company committed $50 million to AI for Earth , which has a five-year plan to support the creation of AI that helps reduce climate change and increase crop yields.
The news was announced today at Build, Microsoft’s annual developer conference, which is being held May 7-9 at the Washington State Convention Center in Seattle, Washington.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
