Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft 365 is getting AI-powered suggestions and enhanced search and Excel features Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Visitor's Center at Microsoft headquarters is pictured July 17, 2014 in Redmond, Washington.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Microsoft 365 users will soon have a number of new AI-powered features, from image recognition that automatically generates Excel spreadsheets to automated meeting transcripts from Microsoft Teams video calls.
Microsoft Search is a new service that will give users the ability to search across 365, sifting through Office apps, SharePoint, OneDrive, and third-party offerings. Search is now available in preview on Bing.com and Office.com and builds on search personalization for 365 customers introduced a year ago.
Available today for the first time are meeting recording capabilities for Microsoft Teams that can do things like use facial recognition to blur the background during video calls and create time-coded transcripts.
The announcements were made today at Microsoft Ignite, a conference being held in Orlando, Florida for IT professionals. Also announced today: a $40 million commitment from Microsoft to support AI for the good of humanity, as well as automated machine learning and the Cortana Skills Kit for Enterprise.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Live event recording, transcript creation, and video encoding capabilities shown off by Microsoft earlier this year were first made available in Yammer and Microsoft Stream.
Ahead of Ignite, Microsoft last week announced new AI services for marketers and sales people, as well as plans to soon introduce HoloLens for experts to provide assistance to remote workers and give companies the ability to lay out items in settings like factories, retail, or elsewhere on Dynamics 365.
Image recognition technology that lets users turn pictures of data tables into Excel files and the ability to add interactive elements to Excel spreadsheets were also introduced today.
And while Search will help people get the files they need, Ideas is a new assistant service that recommends users take specific actions based on past activity. For example, it can recognize outliers in Excel spreadsheets or recommend the use of specific layout or images in a PowerPoint presentation.
More to come VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
