Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Facebook and other tech firms met with U.S. intelligence to discuss 2020 election security Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Facebook: mobile app and website Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
( Reuters ) — U.S. technology companies including Facebook, Alphabet’s Google, Microsoft and Twitter met with U.S. intelligence agencies on Wednesday to discuss security strategies ahead of the November 2020 election.
The companies’ security teams met representatives from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, and the Department of Homeland Security at Facebook’s headquarters in Menlo Park.
“The purpose was to build on previous discussions and further strengthen strategic collaboration regarding the security of the 2020 U.S. state, federal, and presidential elections,” Nathaniel Gleicher, Facebook’s head of cybersecurity policy, said in a statement.
“Specifically, attendees talked about how industry and government could improve how we share information and coordinate our response to better detect and deter threats.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Social media companies are under pressure to ramp up security after what U.S. intelligence agencies have called an extensive Russian cyber-influence operation aimed at helping President Donald Trump get elected in 2016. Russia has repeatedly denied the allegations.
“This is a joint effort in response to a shared threat, and we are committed to doing our part,” a Twitter spokeswoman told Reuters in a statement.
Microsoft and Google also confirmed their attendance at the meeting.
“At Google, we’ve invested in robust systems to detect phishing and hacking attempts, identify foreign interference on our platforms , and protect campaigns from digital attacks. But technology is only part of the solution,” said Richard Salgado, Google’s director of law enforcement and information security.
“It is crucial that industry, law enforcement and others collaborate to prevent any threats to the integrity of our elections.” ( Reporting by Soundarya J in Bengaluru and Elizabeth Culliford in San Francisco; Additional reporting by Ayanti Bera in Bengaluru; Editing by Sonya Hepinstall ) VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
