Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Nvidia debuts Jetson Nano for edge AI on embedded devices Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang holds up the Jetson Nano onstage during the GTC keynote address in San Jose, California Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Nvidia is bringing a new embedded computer to its Jetson line for developers deploying AI on the edge — its smallest computer ever, according to CEO Jensen Huang. Named the Jetson Nano, the CUDA-X computer delivers 472 Gflop of compute power and 4GB of memory and can operate on 5 watts of power.
Jetson Nano and the Jetson Nano developer kit will make their debut today at the Nvidia GPU Tech Conference (GTC) in San Jose, California.
The Jetson Nano for deploying AI on the edge without an internet connection follows the release last year of the Jetson AGX Xavier chip and the Jetson TX2, which was released in 2017.
Above: Nvidia Jetson Nano The Jetson Nano developer kit is available today for $100, while the $129 Jetson Mini computer for embedded devices will be available in June.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! For comparison, the Xavier retails for $1,299 and TX2 for about $600.
“We’re bringing Jetson into the mainstream market,” Nvidia VP of autonomous machines Deepu Talla said today.
The Jetson TX2 runs on 7.5 watts of power and 8GB of memory, while the AGX Xavier can run on as little as 10 watts of power and comes with 32GB of memory.
Like its predecessors, the Jetson Nano will be able to work with Nvidia’s more than 40 CUDA-X AI deep learning libraries.
Above: Jetson Nano developer kit for $99 The Jetson system for edge computing on mobile or embedded devices is currently used by 200,000 developers, Talla said.
Edge computing helps power inference for robots, drones, security cameras, and many other devices that don’t want to rely on an internet connection.
Nano, TX2, and AGX Xavier can be used to create robots from Nvidia — like the Kaya, Carter, and Link robots — with the Isaac robot engine and Isaac Gym robot simulator.
 Nvidia opened its robotics research lab in Seattle in January.
Also announced today: Amazon’s AWS introduced instances powered by Tesla T4 GPUs , general availability of the Constellation platform for autonomous driving , the Safety Force Field for autonomous vehicles, and the reorganization of more than 40 Nvidia deep learning acceleration libraries under the new umbrella name CUDA-X AI.
In other recent edge machine learning news, Google released TensorFlow Lite 1.0 last month at the TensorFlow Dev Summit.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
