Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Y Combinator president Sam Altman steps down to focus on OpenAI Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn OpenAI CEO Sam Altman Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Sam Altman is planning to step down from his role as president of Y Combinator, one of the best-known startup accelerators in Silicon Valley. He’s leaving the position to focus on his work as cochair of prominent nonprofit research organization OpenAI, Y Combinator announced today.
OpenAI was created in 2015 with $1 billion in funding from YC Research and people like Altman, SpaceX cofounder Elon Musk, investor Peter Thiel, LinkedIn cofounder Reid Hoffman, and Y Combinator founding partner Jessica Livingston.
OpenAI has tackled a number of AI research initiatives. In recent weeks, the nonprofit launched a massive reinforcement learning simulator and controversial state-of-the-art NLP model GPT-2 and advocated that sound AI systems rely on social science as well as computer science.
Altman, the organization’s second president since the accelerator was created, will continue at Y Combinator as company chair. Other YC partners will pick up additional day-to-day operations as a result.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Y Combinator is also considering a move from Silicon Valley to San Francisco, according to a blog post.
“The center of gravity for new startups has clearly shifted over the past five years, and although we love our space in Mountain View, we are rethinking whether the logistical tradeoff is worth it, especially given how difficult the commute has become,” the blog post reads. “We also want to be closer to our Bay Area alumni, who disproportionately live and work in San Francisco.” Y Combinator is currently recruiting its 29th class of startup companies. More than 2,000 startups from around the world have participated in the Y Combinator startup accelerator since it was founded in 2005. Each graduate receives $150,000 in backing and three months of training and prep to scale their business.
Last year, Y Combinator announced plans to open a YC Research facility in Seattle and expanded into China , with former Baidu and Microsoft executive Qi Lu leading efforts in both new initiatives.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
