Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Prisma is starting to let users create their own photo filters Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Prisma app and Store for Android Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Prisma Labs, maker of the Prisma app, is giving users more control over their filters with two new features added today.
Starting with its most active users, Prisma Labs is giving its users the ability to make their own neural network-trained filters based on their favorite art or artistic styles.
The web-based tool, which reportedly takes an hour to create a filter, will eventually be rolled out to the Prisma app for iOS and Android smartphones.
The Moscow-based company also announced today the opening of the Prisma Store. With the Prisma Store, users will be able to download or delete filters to customize the kinds of filters used to manipulate photos and videos. Despite it being called a store, the filters are free.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “There are 44 styles available right now,” Prisma Labs said in a statement shared with VentureBeat. “This makes people confused as they have to scroll through lots of styles they don’t like to get to their favorite one. Now people will be able to download and keep the styles they really enjoy.” User-generated filters will be shared in the Prisma Store in the future, CMO Aram Airapetyan told VentureBeat in a Facebook Messenger chat.
“People create a style and submit it to review. We look through and pick the best and place it on Store,” he said.
Airapetyan told VentureBeat he expects the filter creator to be available on smartphones within the coming months.
Prisma was named App of the Year by both App Store for iOS and Play Store for devices using the Android operating system.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
