Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google brings Smart Reply to ML Kit for app developers Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn ML Kit logo Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google today introduced new natural language processing services for ML Kit, its solution for iOS and Android developers to bring AI to their apps with Firebase.
Since it first began to appear in Google products years ago, Smart Reply has been incorporated into Gmail , Hangouts Chat for G Suite , and Google Assistant on smart displays and smartphones.
Smart Reply will suggest text responses based on the last 10 exchanged messages. The model runs entirely on device and does not store text data.
Also introduced today, Language Identification can identify a language being spoken in a string of texts, and can discern 103 different languages.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! ML Kit made its debut in May 2018 at the I/O developer conference , but at launch it was focused primarily on computer vision services such as object character recognition (OCR), face detection, barcode scanning, and image labeling, which can run on-device or in the cloud.
A beta version of face contours to recognize over 100 detailed points of a person’s face was added for the Face Detection API last fall.
Like other ML Kit services, Smart Reply and Language Identification will be made available for free to developers.
ML Kit deploys premade AI models using TensorFlow Lite.
TensorFlow Lite 1.0 and TensorFlow 2.0 made their debut last month. ML Kit for Firebase can also be used to deploy custom TensorFlow Lite models in Firebase.
Additional ML Kit features will likely be shared next month at the I/O developer conference, Google said in a blog post today.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
