Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Gmail’s Smart Compose rolls out to all G Suite users Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Gmail Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Tired of typing out the same email replies over and over again? Soon you won’t have to — if you’re a G Suite user, that is. Google’s Smart Compose feature, which leverages artificial intelligence (AI) to autocomplete emails, is now broadly available to enterprise Gmail customers.
Out of the box, Smart Compose can fill in common phrases and relevant addresses, such as your home and office. And over time, it’ll draw from your historical grammar and typing patterns to guess what it thinks you want to say. If you’re writing an email on a Friday, for example, it may suggest “Have a nice weekend.” It’s on by default for all G Suite users, and can be switched off by heading to Smart Compose > Writing suggestions off in Gmail’s settings menu.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The news doesn’t exactly come as a surprise — Google reaffirmed at Google Cloud Next in August that Smart Compose , which debuted at its I/O 2018 developer conference this year, would come to G Suite in the fall.
It joins a bevy of other new features introduced alongside a redesigned Gmail experience for the web. Chief among them are a confidential mode that automatically deletes the content of emails at a time of the sender’s choosing, new built-in Information Rights Management (IRM) controls, AI-powered “nudges” that resurface old message threads containing unanswered questions, email snoozing, inbox-level shortcuts to attachments, calendar RSVPs, and a whole lot more.
As of April 2018, Gmail had more than 1.4 billion users worldwide. More than 4 million businesses pay for G Suite.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
