Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages This AI judge correctly predicts court case results 80% of time Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A statue of blind justice outside the Albert V. Bryan United States Courthouse in Alexandria, Virginia A team of computer scientists and legal professionals has created artificial intelligence with the ability to accurately predict the outcome of 79 percent of cases decided upon by the European Court of Human Rights.
The performance of the artificial intelligence was published Monday by PeerJ Computer Science.
Text from European Court of Human Rights cases was used to train a machine learning algorithm to find patterns in case text. The predictive model is made possible by advancements in natural language processing and machine learning, the analysis said.
“We don’t see AI replacing judges or lawyers, but we think they’d find it useful for rapidly identifying patterns in cases that lead to certain outcomes. It could also be a valuable tool for highlighting which cases are most likely to be violations of the European Convention on Human Rights,” said lead scientist Nikolaos Aletras in a statement by University College London.
Computer and legal scientists who created the artificial intelligence found that “formal facts of a case are the most important predictive factor,” but also that the kind of language used, topics discussed, and other factors outside of legal facts may influence a court decision.
“We expect this sort of tool would improve efficiencies of high-level, in-demand courts, but to become a reality, we need to test it against more articles and the case data submitted to the court,” Aletras said.
Scientists from University of Pennsylvania, University of Sheffield, and University College London participated in the creation of the artificial intelligence and its subsequent analysis and documentation.
Authors of the analysis hope prediction of court case outcomes will “ eventually prioritize the decision process on cases where violation seems very likely.” “Overall, we believe that building a text-based predictive system of judicial decisions can offer lawyers and judges a useful assisting tool,” the analysis said.
As bot and artificial intelligence ecosystems emerge, legal bots have been in the news this year.
In May, lawyers at the law firm BakerHostetler began to use ROSS , an AI-powered virtual assistant powered by IBM Watson.
DoNotPay, a ticket lawyer bot created by Stanford University student Joshua Browder, expanded to Seattle in August.
 DoNotPay has helped successfully challenge hundreds of thousands of parking tickets, to date.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
