Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Facebook and NYU want to speed up MRI scans tenfold with AI Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn NYU School of Medicine’s Department of Radiology chair Michael Recht, MD, Daniel Sodickson, MD, vice chair for research and director of the Center for Advanced Imaging Innovation and Yvonne Lui, MD, director of artificial intelligence.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Facebook AI Research is working with NYU School of Medicine to make MRI scans up to 10 times faster through artificial intelligence. AI models being used in the fastMRI project were trained by 3 million MRI scans of the brain, knee, and liver from 10,000 clinical cases obtained by NYU.
The effort announced today uses knowledge obtained from the large corpus of images to essentially fill in the blanks in partial images to hasten the speed of MRI scans.
The goal of making MRIs 10 times faster was arrived at because that’s the speed teams at NYU and Facebook think is needed to deliver substantial benefits and move this research to clinical practice and mass adoption. Initial results from the effort will be released within the year, a Facebook spokesperson told VentureBeat in an email.
Depending on the purpose of an MRI, a scan can take anywhere from 15 minutes to more than an hour. Shorter MRI times can mean more patients benefit from MRI scans of bones or soft tissue like blood vessels, but it also means people in fragile health are subjected to the loud banging noises and cramped space for shorter periods of time. MRIs — as opposed to other forms of medical imaging, like X-rays or CT scans — could also mean less radiation exposure for patients.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The school’s Center for Advanced Imaging Innovation and Research (CAI²R) has been exploring the use of AI to improve MRI scan speed since 2016.
Above: On the left is a full data image and on the right of an undersampled image of a knee reconstructed from subsampled data.
Innovative applications of AI working with partially complete data are changing imagery in several ways and have been used to do things like restore partially erased images , reduce heavy levels of noise , and even see behind walls or around corners.
When more advances are made, Facebook will share the AI models, baselines, and evaluation metrics from the research, and NYU will open-source the image dataset used to train fastMRI in order to accelerate adoption of resulting methods in clinical practice.
Beyond medical imaging and computer vision, AI is also being used in areas like drug discovery, while companies like Corti are using natural language processing to identify cardiac arrest events during emergency calls in Europe faster than emergency operators.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
