Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages DoNotPay bot wants to help you sue Equifax Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
DoNotPay bot is now able to help people file lawsuits against Equifax. The bot can file suits in all 50 U.S. states, creator Joshua Browder told VentureBeat. DoNotPay is suing Equifax at the state small claims court level for the maximum amount allowed. In some states, like Tennessee, successful claimants could be awarded up to $25,000.
The bot asks a series of simple questions, including your address, phone number, and zip code, and helps you fill in the appropriate PDF. In California, it’s an SC-100 form to file a suit in small claims court.
Last Friday, Equifax acknowledged that it had been hacked and the personal information of 143 million people exposed. Since then, at least 23 class action lawsuits have been filed, according to USA Today.
“It is particularly exciting that a lawyer is never needed in the process. The class action lawsuit against the company will only give successful consumers around $500 (with the rest going to greedy lawyers in commissions),” Browder said in an email to VentureBeat. “I hope that my product will replace those lawyers, and, with enough success, bankrupt Equifax.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! On Monday, Senate Finance Committee Chair Orrin Hatch of Utah and ranking Democrat Ron Wyden of Wyoming sent a letter to Equifax demanding answers.
“The scope and scale of this breach appears to make it one of the largest on record, and the sensitivity of the information compromised may make it the most costly to taxpayers and consumers,” the letter reads.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aj3Hyxxo_Lk DoNotPay is best known for disputing parking tickets, a service that has successfully saved residents of London and New York hundreds of thousands of dollars.
This summer , DoNotPay expanded to provide more than 1,000 legal services for U.S. and U.K. residents who typically can’t afford to hire a lawyer for things like getting a deposit back from a landlord, applying for maternity leave at work, or drawing up paperwork in event of the loss of a loved one.
The company is part of All Turtles , an AI startup studio founded by former Evernote CEO Phil Libin, with offices in San Francisco and plans to open locations in Paris and Tokyo.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
