Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Element AI raises $102 million to help companies use machine learning Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Element AI executive team.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Element AI, a Montreal-based studio that tackles problems using machine learning systems, announced a whopping $102 million in funding today. Data Collective led the round, which is one of the largest series A rounds for an AI company to date.
The big check offers a massive war chest to Element, which connects businesses with machine learning experts who work to solve any problems they may have. Contributors to the round span a variety of sources, including Real Ventures, Development Bank of Canada (BDC), Intel Capital, Microsoft Ventures, National Bank of Canada, NVIDIA, and a wide range of sovereign wealth funds.
Thanks to the new funds, Element AI will be able to expand its physical footprint. The company is opening offices in Toronto and Asia, according to Jean-François Gagné, the company’s cofounder and CEO.
Element AI’s model is to connect companies with machine learning experts that can help solve specific issues. The company has a set of employees with deep expertise, and it also collaborates with university research teams to help find solutions.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! In Gagné’s view, Element AI provides a variety of benefits to its customers. It can serve as an AI think tank for established businesses while helping startups connect with larger customers and solve problems that would have otherwise been out of reach.
This funding round isn’t just unique because of how much the company was able to raise — it also brought competitors together on the term sheet. Intel Capital and NVIDIA both invested in the series A, something that Gagné said has never happened before.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
