Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft opens Cortana Intelligence Institute to make its AI assistant smarter in the workplace Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Cortana is listening.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Microsoft today announced plans to create the Cortana Intelligence Institute, an initiative to research and experiment with new ways to enhance Microsoft’s AI assistant, particularly as it relates to the workplace and productivity.
The institute brings together faculty and students from RMIT University in Melbourne, Australia with Microsoft Research and the recently established Cortana Research.
“The research at RMIT for the institute is focused on work-related tasks, an area with strong potential to help make Cortana a more proactive and context-aware digital assistant that truly amplifies human capabilities,” said Microsoft Research outreach director Roy Zimmerman in a blog post today.
Like other AI assistants, today Cortana can help you do things like read the news, play music, or create calendar events or reminders, but it can also share LinkedIn profile information ahead of a meeting, remind you of commitments you made in an email, and (soon) schedule meetings with coworkers with just your voice.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The collaboration announced today will explore much of Cortana Research’s main focus, which is making Cortana execute complex commands that involve multiple steps or contextual awareness.
RMIT faculty and students will attempt to take into account information like the location and physical activity of a Cortana user, online and app use history, and social interactions to better understand a person’s intent.
The establishment of the institute comes a day after Microsoft announced its quarterly earnings , when CEO Satya Nadella talked at length about the future of Cortana’s intelligence and how Microsoft views other AI assistants like Alexa.
“Right now most assistants are fairly dumb in terms of just doing one-turn dialogue, but where we’re going to go is multi-turn dialogue, and that requires real natural language understanding,” Nadella said.
Azure and Microsoft Cognitive Services, Nadella said, form the core of Microsoft’s AI services.
“That’s where we will make sure we do our best, building blocks and AI work. Of course, it will manifest for us with Cortana as an agent from Microsoft that has some special skills, especially around that crossover between work and life,” he said. “Most agents and their knowledge or smarts come from the data access they have. In our case, it’s going to be about things that are there in Office 365. The people, places, things, and how we reason about it and help users, whether they’re at home or whether they’re at work.” Last August, Amazon and Microsoft agreed to join forces , allowing PCs running Cortana to speak with Alexa and Echo devices with Alexa to speak with Cortana.
Since then, Microsoft has talked about the development of voice apps for work , and Amazon has taken big steps towards the workplace.
In late November, Amazon launched Alexa for Business to bring enterprise software providers together with Alexa’s ability to do things like control smart devices or create calendar events.
Cisco’s Spark Assistant also wants to become the de-facto work assistant.
 Google could also join the AI assistant fight for the workplace.
Microsoft isn’t concerned about Alexa coming to PCs or other assistants, Nadella said, because it runs counter to the company’s AI assistant philosophy.
“That’s why we are working with Alexa, we would welcome it on our devices, because we believe in a world where our own assistant should be available everywhere and so should other assistants be available on our devices versus thinking that the end game here is about speaking, doing one-turn dialogues on one speaker in one home. That’s just not our vision,” Nadella said.
Despite a promise to bring the two AI assistants together by the end of 2017, that partnership has yet to emerge on Echo devices or Windows 10 PCs.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
