Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft names new head of product for Cortana Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Cortana is listening.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Microsoft’s AI assistant Cortana has a new boss, a company spokesperson told VentureBeat today. Javier Soltero, who previously controlled the Microsoft Office product group, will now be in charge of product for Cortana, an assistant available on 400 million devices.
Now corporate vice president of Cortana product, Soltero will lead the team, together with corporate vice president of Cortana engineering Andrew Shuman, a spokesperson said.
Consumers don’t choose between assistants like Cortana, Siri, and Alexa based on the number of voice apps they have from third parties, Soltero told Axios.
“The real contest is about which company users will choose and entrust with essentially all of their information or the majority of their information,” he said.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Soltero came to Microsoft in 2014 after Acompli, a company he cofounded, was acquired to bolster Office email app Outlook.
 As part of the deal, Soltero was placed in charge of Outlook mobile apps, where he spearheaded an effort to simplify and revamp the app and its product team. Soltero was later promoted to corporate vice president of the Office product group, expanding his purview beyond Outlook to Microsoft’s broader productivity suite.
His Office knowledge will likely come in handy as Cortana continues to expand its AI assistant’s skills for the workplace and productivity.
Since the release of the Harman Kardon Invoke with Cortana inside last fall, Gmail and Google Calendar support has been extended to Cortana users and has begun to roll out scheduling features unavailable from other assistants on the market. Last month, together with research partners, Microsoft announced the opening of the Cortana Intelligence Institute to further extend the AI assistant’s smarts in the workplace and increase its ability to respond to complex commands.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
