Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft’s Cortana gets Gmail and Google Calendar support Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Invoke speaker with Cortana inside.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Microsoft’s AI assistant Cortana is now able to integrate with Gmail and Google Calendar accounts. Until recently, Outlook and Office 365 were the only calendar and email options for users of Cortana on devices like Windows 10 PCs and Microsoft’s first smart speaker with Cortana inside, the Harman Kardon Invoke.
Cortana support with email and calendar functionality announced today will be extended to additional devices this spring, according to a Microsoft spokesperson.
With this Google integration, Cortana can now tell you about events on your calendar and add events to your calendar that include people in your contact list. Cortana can also share schedules across Office 365, Outlook, and Gmail calendars.
Google Calendar support begins today on the Cortana app and the Invoke, while email features announced today will be made available at an undetermined later date, a Microsoft spokesperson told VentureBeat in an email.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Once email is available, Cortana will be able to read emails back to you, catch you up on the latest inbox activity and allow you to compose and send responses using only your voice. Cortana will also be able to prioritize emails from important contacts and deem some as high priority.
For context, Google Assistant cannot read emails aloud, add invitees to a meeting, prioritize which emails to read aloud, or carry out other email or calendar-related tasks Cortana can currently do or will soon be able to do.
The news today comes as little shock, as Cortana-Gmail integrations were spotted earlier this week on Windows 10 devices.
To bring Gmail to your Cortana experience, open the app’s hamburger menu, choose Notebook, then tap Connected Services and follow instructions.
Wunderlist for Cortana lets you add items to a to-do list, and a Skype integration with Invoke lets you make voice calls with Cortana on an Invoke, and the LinkedIn integration made in 2015 allows you to ask questions about a person such as job role or title.
Cortana is currently available on more than 500 million Windows 10 devices and is used by 140 million people a month.
In addition to the debut of a smart speaker with Cortana inside this fall, Microsoft made Cortana a permanent fixture in the contact lists of Skype users in October.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
