Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Soul Machines unveils 2 new ‘digital humans’ Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Roman the digital human from Soul Machines Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Emotionally responsive avatar creator Soul Machines today unveiled two new characters for its virtual assistant services named Roman and Shushila.
Roman joins other characters like Nadia, Rachel, and BabyX , becoming Soul Machine’s first adult male digital human, chief business officer Greg Cross told VentureBeat.
“What we’re really about is creating digital humans for all the different worlds of our future, whether it’s AR or VR. So these digital humans that are rendered in 3D can go directly into those environments, they can go into gaming environments, and they can be the human-user interface for artificially intelligent platforms,” Cross said. “We see digital humans being to chatbots and voice assistants what TV was to radio, an infinitely more engaging and interactive experience.” Cross spoke before an audience of hundreds today while onstage at MB 2017, a two-day gathering of bot and AI innovators being held at Fort Mason in San Francisco.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Above: Shushila the digital human from Soul Machines Based in New Zealand, Soul Machines was started by Mark Sagar. Sagar is creator of the Laboratory for Animate Technologies at the University of Auckland in New Zealand. He has also worked on constructing lifelike characters for movies like Avatar and King Kong.
Like the recently created Expressive AI , Soul Machines focuses on the imitation of human body movement and emotion.
Last year, working with actress Cate Blanchett, Soul Machines released a personal assistant for Australian citizens seeking government disability services.
Sagar told VentureBeat in May Soul Machines intends to launch a platform to allow people and companies to make their own digital humans within the next 18 months.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
