The Verge homepage The Verge homepage The Verge The Verge logo.
/ Tech / Reviews / Science / Entertainment / More Menu Expand Menu Tech / Google / Artificial Intelligence Google veteran Jeff Dean takes over as company’s AI chief Google veteran Jeff Dean takes over as company’s AI chief / John Giannandrea is stepping down from his role as head of search and AI By James Vincent , a senior reporter who has covered AI, robotics, and more for eight years at The Verge.
| Share this story Programmer Jeff Dean was one of Google’s earliest employees, and he is credited with helping to create some of the fundamental technologies that powered the tech giant’s rise in the early 2000s. Now, he’s been put in charge of Google’s future, taking over as head of the company’s artificial intelligence unit.
The move is part of a reshuffle at Google, first reported by The Information and confirmed by CNBC , that seems designed to push AI into more of the company’s products. Previously, AI product development was overseen along with search by senior vice president of engineering, John Giannandrea. Now, this role is being split into two, with Dean taking over AI, and Ben Gomes leading the development of search.
The reshuffle seems designed to push AI into more Google products Breaking out AI as its own unit suggests Google wants to infuse the technology into more practical parts of its business. (It still has two pure AI research organizations: the Google Brain team and the London-based DeepMind, acquired in 2014.) This prioritizing of AI has become common in the tech world, and the move follows a similar reorganization at Microsoft announced last week , which also made machine learning more central.
Dean’s own experience in AI is extensive; he previously co-founded the Google Brain team and will continue to lead it in his new role. Google Brain has spearheaded the company’s use of deep learning, a type of AI that underwent a renaissance in the early 2010s and powers the field’s most useful applications, from self-driving cars to medical analysis. Dean is also involved with the development of TensorFlow, Google’s machine learning framework, which is distributed for free to developers and has proved to be a big part of the company’s AI offering.
Dean is also something of a legend among Googlers, and over the years has even inspired a joke format (similar to Chuck Norris facts) that emphasizes his coding prowess. For example, did you know that Jeff Dean’s PIN is the last four digits of Pi, or that Jeff Dean’s keyboard only has two keys, “0” and “1”? Now they just need to come up with some Jeff Dean AI jokes.
OpenAI board in discussions with Sam Altman to return as CEO Sam Altman fired as CEO of OpenAI Windows is now an app for iPhones, iPads, Macs, and PCs Screens are good, actually What happened to Sam Altman? Verge Deals / Sign up for Verge Deals to get deals on products we've tested sent to your inbox daily.
From our sponsor Advertiser Content From More from Tech Amazon, Microsoft, and India crack down on tech support scams Amazon eliminated plastic packaging at one of its warehouses Amazon has renewed Gen V for a sophomore season Universal Music sues AI company Anthropic for distributing song lyrics Advertiser Content From Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell Or Share My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status How We Rate and Review Products Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement The Verge is a vox media network Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2023 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved
