Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google Brain chief: Deep learning takes at least 100,000 examples Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Jeff Dean, a senior fellow at Google and head of the Google Brain project, speaks at VB Summit 2017 in Berkeley, California on October 23, 2017 Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
While the current class of deep learning techniques is helping fuel the AI wave, one of the frequently cited drawbacks is that they require a lot of data to work. But how much is enough data? “I would say pretty much any business that has tens or hundreds of thousands of customer interactions has enough scale to start thinking about using these sorts of things,” Jeff Dean, a senior fellow at Google, said in an onstage interview at the VB Summit in Berkeley, California. “If you only have 10 examples of something, it’s going to be hard to make deep learning work. If you have 100,000 things you care about, records or whatever, that’s the kind of scale where you should really start thinking about these kinds of techniques.” Dean knows a thing or two about deep learning — he’s head of the Google Brain team, a group of researchers focused on a wide-ranging set of problems in computer science and artificial intelligence. He’s been working with neural networks since the 1990s, when he wrote his undergraduate thesis on artificial neural networks.
In his view, machine learning techniques have an opportunity to impact virtually every industry, though the rate at which that happens will depend on the specific industry.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! There are still plenty of hurdles that humans need to tackle before they can take the data they have and turn it into machine intelligence. In order to be useful for machine learning, data needs to be processed, which can take time and require (at least at first) significant human intervention.
“There’s a lot of work in machine learning systems that is not actually machine learning,” Dean said. “And so you still have to do a lot of that. You have to get the data together, maybe you have to have humans label examples, and then you have to write some data processing pipeline to produce the dataset that you will then do machine learning on.” In order to simplify the process of creating machine learning systems, Google is turning to machine learning itself to determine the right system for solving a particular problem. It’s a tough task that isn’t anywhere near completed, but Dean said the team’s early work is promising.
One encouraging example of how this might work comes from a self-trained network that posted state-of-the-art results identifying images from the ImageNet dataset earlier this year. And Google-owned DeepMind just published a paper about a version of AlphaGo that appeared to have mastered the game solely by playing against itself.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
