Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple AR headset reportedly coming in 2020 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Apple Store Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Apple’s ARKit marks the start of a long journey for the company’s work with augmented reality technology, but the long-rumored AR headset the company may be working on may still be years away from release.
A new report from Bloomberg claims that Apple is aiming to have its AR headset ready in 2019 and possibly start shipping it in 2020. Citing sources “familiar with the situation”, the report notes that this headset will feature a brand new display and run on a new chip and fresh operating system instead of the iOS mobile platform that currently runs ARKit. This new OS is apparently dubbed ‘rOS’ internally, which stands for ‘reality opertaing system’.
As for input, the company is allegedly experimenting with touch panels, voice activation serviced by Siri and head gestures.
Current prototype apps include virtual meeting rooms and even 360 degree video playback, both of which sound better suited to VR rather than AR. It’s unclear if this device will support VR in any way, but the report does state that the company is using the HTC Vive for testing and that a device similar to Oculus and Samsung’s Gear VR using iPhone components is also being used (though isn’t intended to be sold).
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! It’s no surprise to see Apple working on such a device; patents have suggested the company would be taking this path for a while now.
In the gap between now and release, Apple apparently intends to release a new version of ARKit with better software tools that make AR development much easier next year. This will even include multi-user support.
If true, Apple’s timeline seems to fall in line with the current state of other AR headsets. Microsoft’s HoloLens, for example, is available as a development kit, but we’re still no closer to seeing the consumer version than we were when it was revealed two years ago. Florida-based Magic Leap, meanwhile, is rumored to be releasing an early version of its mysterious headset within the next few months.
This story originally appeared on Uploadvr.com.
 Copyright 2017 GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
