Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google debuts ARCore 1.2 with Sceneform, Augmented Images, Android and iOS Cloud Anchors Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn ARCore's Cloud Anchors feature lets users share AR objects within a common space.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
At the Google I/O 2018 developer’s conference today, Daydream product manager Nathan Martz introduced ARCore 1.2 , a new version of the company’s augmented reality software development kit for Android. The latest version of ARCore introduces three major new features — Sceneform, Augmented Images, and Cloud Anchors — and surprisingly adds limited support for certain iOS devices.
First up is Sceneform, a new SDK designed to help Java developers create scenes with ARCore, optimized for mobile, without the need to learn OpenGL. The goal with Sceneform is to leverage ARCore’s advanced 3D object and tracking capabilities within old and new Java apps.
Second is Augmented Images, a new ARCore feature that lets developers attach augmented images to real-world objects while tracking and moving with them in 3D. The feature includes support for vertical plane detection so that AR objects can be attached to walls, as well as horizontal surfaces. Martz offered an example of how Augmented Images will work, letting an ARCore user see what’s inside a box before opening it. Both Sceneform and Augmented Images will apparently be for Android devices only.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Above: Cloud Anchors are supported on both Android and iOS devices.
Third is Cloud Anchors, which lets multiple devices use the cloud to share information about objects within a real-world scene. This will enable collaboration between multiple ARCore device users so that they can collectively draw or manipulate AR objects within a common space, displaying tracked object locations correctly from each person’s perspective.
Notably, Google said that Cloud Anchors will be offered for both iOS and Android devices to encourage cross-device use, though it appears that only iPhones are supported at first — the iPhone SE, iPhone 6s series, iPhone 7 series, iPhone 8 series, and iPhone X. Java, Unity, and Unreal engines are also supported.
ARCore 1.2 is available now from Google’s developer website.
The SDK enables developers to juxtapose virtual assets atop real-world physical surfaces using the phone’s camera and screen to provide live video of the merged experience. It is a followup to Tango , a Google AR software initiative that launched in 2014, saw only modest support, and was effectively discontinued in 2017. By comparison, the newer ARCore requires at least Android 7.0 Nougat and was initially pitched as compatible with 100 million devices across 13 specific Android phone models.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
