Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Baidu hires Microsoft executive Qi Lu as its new COO Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Microsoft executive vice president for applications and services group Qi Lu on stage at the Build developer conference in San Francisco, Calif. on March 31, 2016.
Chinese search engine operator Baidu today disclosed that it has hired Qi Lu away from Microsoft to be its new group president and chief operating officer. In his new role, Lu will handle products, technology, sales, marketing, and operations.
Lu was highly regarded at Microsoft, having spent nine years as an executive at the company, where he was ultimately in charge of Office and most recently held the position of executive vice president of the applications and services group.
“Dr. Lu possesses a wealth of leadership and management experience, and is a leading authority in the area of artificial intelligence,” Baidu Group chairman and chief executive Robin Li is quoted as saying in a statement.
 “I am confident that Dr. Lu will make major contributions to the overall strength of our management and technology. To achieve our goals, especially in artificial intelligence, which is a key strategic focus for the next decade, we will need to continue attracting the best global talent. With Dr. Lu on board, we are confident that our strategy will be executed smoothly and Baidu will become a world-class technology company and global leader in AI.” Recode reported that Lu was leaving in September, pointing to health issues, with Rajesh Jha taking on Lu’s responsibilities.
During a keynote at Microsoft’s Build conference in San Francisco last year, Lu announced several updates to the Microsoft Graph, Office for Mac 2016, Skype, and Office 365, in general.
“I am excited to help realize Baidu’s visionary AI strategy,” Lu is quoted as saying in today’s statement. In recent months, Microsoft has sought to enhance certain Office properties, like Word and PowerPoint , using AI.
Baidu chief operating officer David Zhu left the company to become an investor at GGV Capital in 2014.
“We want to thank Dr. Qi Lu for his great contributions to Microsoft during his eight years of service to the company and wish him the best of luck in his next endeavor,” a Microsoft spokesperson told VentureBeat in an email.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
