Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon brings 8 new voices to Alexa skills Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Amazon Echo Spot Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Developers making voice apps for Amazon’s Alexa can now use different voices to power their experiences. The voices are being provided for free through the AWS text-to-speech service Polly.
Created in 2016 with the same conversational AI that powers Alexa, Polly can speak in nearly 50 voices in 24 languages , but at its start, only eight Polly voices synthesized to sound more human are being made available in developer preview for English-speaking Alexa skills in the United States.
Prior to the introduction of voices from Polly, developers were able to change a voice in a skill experience with the use of pre-recorded MP3 files. Skills developers will be able to add Polly voices using Speech Synthesis Markup Language (SSML).
First introduced for Alexa last year , SSML is a set of tags that can be added when constructing an Alexa skill for human-sounding expressions like “Boom!” and “Bada Bing,” noises like sighs and expletive beeps, and the ability to lower Alexa’s voice to a whisper.
The ability to use different voices is the latest feature extended to Alexa developers.
In-skill purchases opened for Alexa developers in the U.S. earlier this month.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The news comes a week after Google gave its Assistant six new voices , plans for an Assistant voice with singer John Legend, and the debut of Duplex , AI that uses WaveNet speech synthesis to generate a human-sounding voice that makes reservations or schedules appointments over the phone.
No word yet on when Alexa will get more voice options or the ability to give users the choice to speak with a male or female voice.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
