Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Box taps Google’s AI for image recognition Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Box sign in the company's Redwood City office.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Box is bringing more artificial intelligence to its content services offering for enterprises, the company announced today. Using the Google Cloud Vision API, customers will be able to get automatic tagging of objects, optical character recognition of text in images, and other information when they upload files.
With this move, Box is adding a new layer of intelligence to its marquee service, which offers customers secure, cloud-based file storage and content management capabilities. Box Image Recognition will be able to further help customers by automatically classifying their images, which can then enable workflows to route files or just help reduce busy work.
For example, a service technician could use Box Capture, the company’s camera app , to photograph a physical sign or typed notice that would then be automatically transcribed by the image recognition system for further processing.
This is also a win for Google, which has been trying to lure customers to its cloud platform with services like the Cloud Vision API. The image recognition API space is incredibly competitive, with major cloud providers like Microsoft and Amazon Web Services offering their own competing services. There are also a number of startups and smaller companies offering similar functionality.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Rand Wacker, Box’s head of product marketing, said in an interview that the company isn’t yet disclosing the pricing for the Box Image Recognition capability. It seems unlikely that customers will be able to get it for free, however, considering that Google charges for use of its API.
The Image Recognition capabilities are available in private beta, starting today. This means companies have to opt into having their images analyzed by Google, which should help allay any fears of those concerned about giving the tech giant’s image recognition system access to their files.
Box will also work to add new intelligent capabilities to its services in the future, and Wacker didn’t rule out the possibility of working with additional partners to do so. Plus, there’s likely big news in the pipeline for later this year, when the company hosts its BoxWorks conference in October.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
