Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon opens Alexa in-skill purchasing to all developers for U.S. customers Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Amazon Echo Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Alexa developers can now charge users for “premium digital content to enrich [an] Alexa skill experience,” Amazon announced today, as the company has rolled out “in-skill purchasing (ISP)” for Alexa skills to all developers building skills for United States customers. The feature was previously available in a handful of titles.
Amazon says that Alexa skills will continue to be free for customers, enabling them to assess each skill’s quality and features before making a purchase. But ISPs will enable developers to offer one-time purchases of features or content, as well as subscriptions that grant access to features or content over time. Consumables — such as in-game hints that disappear after each use — are not currently supported.
In-skill purchasing can already be found in Jeopardy games, The Ellen Show’s Heads Up, and TuneIn’s Live audio service, as well as a couple of other Alexa skills. As of today, SyFy Wire is adding subscription-based access to exclusive weekly podcasts, and the game Yes Sire is adding an expansion pack.
For customers, the feature will be pretty much like using Alexa to make Amazon purchases: Voice commands will be able to trigger purchases using payment options linked to their Amazon accounts. Developers will supply the list of offerings and prices, receiving a 70 percent cut of the list price before any discount offered by Amazon itself.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Amazon has also posted a best practices guide to “ designing premium experiences for Alexa skills, ” noting that the one-time purchases are designed to be “enduring entitlements” that should be easy to find in the skill, but marketed as a “solution, not a sales pitch.” The retailer already offers a separate Alexa Developer Rewards program enabling developers to sell real-world products, such as ordering food, and services, such as booking a ride.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
