Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple refreshes iPod Touch with faster A8 processor, 128GB model, and new colors Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Apple today upgraded its line of iPod music players with a host of new features, colors, and models, though the iPod Touch was the main focus for the refresh.
The new iPod Touch has a faster A8 processor, similar to what’s used in the iPhone 6, and sports an 8-megapixel “iSight” camera. This represents the first major upgrade for the iPod Touch since 2012.
Additionally, the iPod Touch, Shuffle and Nano are all now available in gold, pink, and blue, as well as silver, red, and gray.
Above: iPod Touch In terms of pricing, the new iPod Touch starts at $199 (16GB model), $249 (32GB model), and $299 (64GB model). However, there is also an all-new 128GB model for $399. With such a gargantuan amount of storage, who says the future of music is all about streaming? Well, Apple actually — the new iPod Touch also integrates with Apple’s new subscription music service, Apple Music , including its (free) Beats 1 radio station.
The company hopes to continue selling the freestanding players even as they’ve been overshadowed and outsold by smartphones. The upgrade comes as a surprise to many, as iPods have been losing visibility in Apple’s product line. The device family used to be a main product category on Apple’s website, but it’s now pretty hidden on the site.
Apple reported sales of just 2.6 million iPods in the final quarter of 2014, earning the company $410 million. That’s just a tiny drop in the bucket of Apple’s total revenues for the quarter — $42.1 billion. The majority of those profits came from iPhone sales.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
