Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google Home launches support for WebMD, Quora, Domino’s, and dozens more Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google Home Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
More than 30 startups and companies like Domino’s Pizza, Food Network, and Product Hunt launched new actions for Google Home today.
Actions, like Amazon Alexa skills, give a user control and command of Google Assistant.
This marks the largest rollout of actions since Google Home went on sale in October and since the Google Assistant platform to make commands for Google Home launched last week. There are currently 35 third-party conversation actions you can use on Google Home, 32 of which were released today.
“Conversation Actions from early access partners will begin rolling out over the coming weeks — starting today. We’re excited to see what developers build!,” Google Assistant product lead Jason Douglas told VentureBeat in an email.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! There’s WebMD for health-related questions, Food Network for recipes, Headspace for meditation, Product Hunt for tech insiders, and Lonely Planet for travelers with a bit of wanderlust.
For discovery, Tender recommends cocktails, And Chill recommends Netflix movies to watch, and Itcher recommends books.
For games, there’s trivia from SongPop, 20 Questions-style fun with Akinator the Genie, and Sub War, which lets you play the commander of a submarine.
In news, there’s NPR One, NBC News, HuffPost, Wall Street Journal, and CNBC.
VentureBeat also launched an action today.
New conversational actions can be found inside the settings section of the Google Home iOS and Android apps.
Netflix (requires Chromecast) and Google Photos actions were made available earlier this week.
 In actions for Google Home on the horizon, Mercedes Benz announced this week that it plans to put the Google Assistant inside its cars. A preview is scheduled to take place next month at CES 2017 , according to Slash Gear.
Above: Companies who rolled out actions today or who plan to do so in the coming weeks.
The release of new actions isn’t the only thing Google did this week to build an ecosystem around its Google Assistant.
On Tuesday, Google announced plans to combine Nest Weave and Google Weave so Google Assistant can talk to Nest devices. Several IoT companies will also begin to use Weave.
“Device makers like Philips Hue and Samsung SmartThings already use Weave, and several others like Belkin WeMo, LiFX, Honeywell, Wink, TP-Link, and First Alert are implementing it. Weave provides all the cloud infrastructure, so that developers can focus on building their products without investing in cloud services,” Google developer advocate for IoT Wayne Piekarski wrote in a blog post.
As new actions debut and Google Assistant continues to evolve, Google’s major competitors continue their march to catch up or get ahead.
Wynn Las Vegas announced Thursday that it plans to build a virtual assistant for the hotel and casino and put an Amazon Echo in every one of its more than 4,700 guest rooms.
Also Thursday, Facebook Messenger started testing a new smart suggestions feature , which is powered by its AI-driven virtual assistant named M.
Facebook VP David Marcus told BuzzFeed News that Messenger plans to roll the M suggestions feature out to more users in 2017, implying that the company’s flagship intelligent assistant will be a bigger part of Messenger next year.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
