Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google Assistant now has 50 apps and games for kids Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Kids chatting with Google Home Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google Assistant is now able to do things like beatbox, host musical chairs, talk to Mickey Mouse, and play a variety of games made especially for kids. At launch, these new features are only available in the United States.
To play a game, say “OK Google, Abracadabra,” for example, or say “OK Google, let’s play a game” to be introduced to more than 20 games like Mickey Mouse Adventure, space trivia, and Sports Illustrated Kids. Most of the games are for kids, but Lucky Trivia for Families and Family Sports Trivia are made for a broader range of age groups.
Google Assistant voice apps for kids also include personalized education service cK-12 and study.com , a website with thousands of educational videos.
Google requires parents to create Family Link accounts for kids under 13 to get unique voice signature identification. Google Assistant is able to recognize up to six unique voices. Developers who make Apps for Families get a dedicated badge placed next to their app icon to tell parents the activity is safe for kids.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Say “tell me a story” and Google will read more than 20 kids stories like the classics Little Red Riding Hood, Sleeping Beauty, and Goldilocks. More modern pieces include The Tired Alien, The Chef Who Loved Potatoes, and The Cat’s Elopement.
Family-friendly apps for the Actions on Google platform, as well as plans to release 50 apps for kids, were first announced at the Made by Google hardware event held October 4 in San Francisco.
AI assistants being able to play games isn’t new — Google Assistant has been a crystal ball reader and game show host for some time now — but games are becoming an increasing part of the battle between Google and Amazon.
Last week at Alexa Accelerator Demo Night, the startup Sensible Object debuted When in Rome , the first board game Alexa hosts. This follows the release of the Gadgets API and SDK by Amazon to encourage developers and hardware makers to create skills and gadgets for Alexa games. Alexa Buttons, the first such accessory from Amazon, is due out soon.
Just as Google released apps for kids today, back in August Amazon debuted its service for Alexa skills for kids with offerings from SpongeBob SquarePants and Sesame Street. Amazon’s skills for kids also require verification by a parent.
Earlier this year, Jeff Bezos reportedly instructed the team at Amazon in charge of Alexa to make more games for the AI assistant, according to The Information.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
