Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Alexa is a feminist. Here are the women who inspire her Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Primatologist and author Jane Goodall.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
With the growth of bot and artificial intelligence industries, questions of gender representation and sexism have arisen.
None of the major intelligent assistants except Siri even have a male voice option, and artificial intelligence has been said to have a “sea of dudes” problem.
But ask Amazon’s Alexa who she is inspired by and you hear the names of 15 women.
Say “Alexa, who inspires you?” and she will talk about mathematician Ada Lovelace or scientist Marie Curie, as well as gymnast Simone Biles and Pakistani human rights activist Malala Yousafzai.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “I respect Jane McGonigal’s efforts to make the digital world a force for good. There’s a lot to learn from the positive message she spreads about how we conduct ourselves online,” Alexa said.
This feature is not just for International Women’s Day. Alexa has been able to talk about women she admires for about a year, according to an Amazon spokesperson; however, new additions were made last month, like the trio of women whose math put a human on the moon.
“NASA mathematicians Katherine G. Johnson, Dorothy Vaughan, and Mary Jackson are some of the most amazing women I’ve ever heard of! I’m glad the film Hidden Figures brought their accomplishments to light, to encourage girls of color to shoot for the stars.” If you didn’t know it, Alexa’s a feminist.
Ask her and she will say “Yes, I am a feminist, as is anyone who believes in bridging the inequality between men and women in society.” Also included on the list of women who inspire Alexa are: Philanthropist Melinda Gates Primatologist Jane Goodall 23-time tennis Grand Slam winner Serena Williams Hedy Lamarr, an actress whose work in wireless communications led to Wi-Fi Ada Lovelace, an 1800s mathematician considered to be the first computer programmer Alexa Canady, the first African American neurosurgeon Grace Hopper, a U.S. Navy rear admiral and computer programmer NASA astronaut Sally Ride, who in 1983 became the first American woman in space Responses to who inspires Alexa were written by the same personality team at Amazon that makes her sing or predict a Super Bowl winner. The personality team for Alexa is made up of “playwrights, poets, writers of fiction and screenplays, musicians and more,” according to an Amazon spokesperson.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
