Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon extends Alexa’s voice-shopping smarts to include Prime Now 2-hour deliveries Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Amazon Echo Tap Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Amazon is today expanding the capabilities of its digital assistant, Alexa, by allowing shoppers to order items through Prime Now using nothing but their voice.
The internet giant has allowed people to purchase items on Amazon using Alexa for a while already. Initially, it was limited to reordering items but this was later opened up to millions of items through Amazon Prime — the company’s $99 annual membership program. And today it’s being extended to include Prime Now, meaning users can order goods for delivery within a two-hour window by saying: “Alexa, order [item] from Prime Now.” This doesn’t extend to things like laptops and other bigger, bulkier items; it’s more about daily essentials that are available locally, including groceries and smaller goods, such as video games. It also includes booze in the handful of cities where Amazon offers alcohol, which includes Seattle, as well as Columbus and Cincinnati, announced last week.
For the moment, Alexa’s compatibility with Prime Now is limited to those who own an Amazon Echo device, Fire Tablet, or Fire TV. It is worth noting here that Amazon actually added Alexa support to the main Amazon shopping app on iOS last week — you just won’t be able to order from Amazon Prime Now using your voice.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Today’s news comes a month after Google’s Amazon Echo competitor, Google Home, announced it was letting people buy goods from around 50 retailers across the U.S. And with Samsung about to enter the smart assistant fray with Bixby , announced yesterday, the competition is really starting to heat up.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
