Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google Home 6x better than Amazon Alexa in 3,000 question test Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google Home Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Don’t judge a smart speaker by its sales — at least that’s the story floating around the internet today, as Ad Age has revealed a study showing that Google Home is six times likelier than Amazon Alexa to answer user requests correctly. The research, conducted by New York-based digital agency 360i, backs the search company’s voice assistant, despite consumers clearly choosing Amazon’s option instead. In March, eMarketer reported that Amazon Alexa has a 70% share of the voice controlled speaker market.
Using proprietary software to ask both Google Home and Amazon Alexa some 3,000 questions, Google’s voice assistant emerged six times likelier than the competition to answer correctly. The results are surprising but make sense when you consider the companies’ disparate approaches to voice assistant technology.
Amazon, meanwhile, typically works with information and content partners to source its data. To the casual user — especially since these AI operations are all done in the cloud — there may be no perceptible difference to Google and Amazon’s results. But the search giant’s data set is vast. (On the other hand, Amazon’s set of consumer insight is growing larger by the day, so when it comes to shopping, it can’t be beat.) And then there are the smart home and service-linked capabilities that both of these smart assistants can perform. While 360i’s research didn’t break out how many of the 3,000 questions were general knowledge versus personalized requests, you’d expect that the researchers asked the assistants to play some music or turn out the lights. Results in those domains can vary greatly, depending on the products and services attached.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! For instance, if you ask a Nest Thermostat-linked Google Home to “ set the air conditioning to 72 ,” it should do the job. But that same command on the Amazon Echo wouldn’t work, as Alexa requires different command sets that require specific trigger words.
While that’s interesting, from a practical standpoint, many more products are compatible with Alexa than with Google Home. So, while it might take a few more tries to get the correct answer from Amazon, at least it’s possible — and that seems to be what matters most to consumers right now.
This story originally appeared on Fortune.com.
 Copyright 2017 VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
