Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon wants the Echo to replace your home intercom Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Amazon Echo Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Amazon’s Alexa will soon be able to act as a home intercom system, delivering voice or video to various rooms in your home. To talk to someone in another room, say the name of the device that you want to receive the message. So you could say “Alexa, call the kitchen,” and then simply begin talking.
The new feature will begin today and continue to be rolled out in the days ahead in the form of an update to the Alexa app. The app is also where you’ll find the names of your Alexa-enabled devices. Intercom will only be available for Amazon Echo, Echo Show, and Echo Dot users.
The Alexa app can also be used to access the intercom feature outside the home. Calls and messaging with the Alexa app first debuted last month.
 Drop-in (Amazon’s term for voice and video calls) functionality must be enabled in the app to use the intercom.
Intercom for Alexa emerges days before the release of the $230 Echo Show , one of the first Amazon devices to combine a voice and visual interface.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The Echo Show and intercom system continue to mimic the Nucleus home intercom system with Alexa inside, which hit the market last year. Last fall, the Alexa Fund led a $5.6 million round of investment into Nucleus.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
