Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon’s Alexa now has music alarms, just like your bedside radio Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Amazon today announced that Alexa-enabled devices like the Echo and Echo Plus can now be set to a specific song, playlist, podcast for alarms. Setting a music alarm is a bit like when you ask the smart speaker to play music, except you ask Alexa to “set an alarm” or “wake me up,” so now you can say “Alexa wake me up to ‘Wake Me Up Before You Go-Go’ at 7 am” or “Alexa, wake me up to BBC News on TuneIn at 6 am.” Music alarms can be set with Spotify, Pandora, TuneIn, SiriusXM, iHeartRadio, and Amazon Music.
Amazon Music customers can also preset alarms with music based on their mood, activity, or remembered song lyrics by saying “Alexa, wake me up to relaxing music at 7 am” or “Alexa, set an alarm at 7 a.m. to the song that goes ‘I’ve paid my dues time after time.'” Alongside other Echo devices, the new feature is likely to be put to use on the Echo Spot, due out December 19 , which Amazon bills as a smart alarm clock. It’s also sure to be a source of competition (or tension) between audiophile couples with good taste in music. Good luck, you brave souls.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Music alarms for Alexa is one in a series of new ways users of Alexa-enabled devices can customize their experience with an Alexa-enabled device. Routines for scheduled actions or custom commands were made available in the Alexa app in late October ; they allow you to schedule Alexa to play traffic, weather, and news flash briefings.
Developers will be given access to proactive push notifications for Alexa skills and unique voice identification in early 2018 for even more personalized experiences, Amazon announced recently at AWS re:Invent.
In other Alexa news, on Friday Amazon expanded Alexa and Amazon Music to dozens of new countries in parts of Europe and South America , though music alarms are only available in the United States at this time, an Amazon spokesperson told VentureBeat. Alexa was brought to Amazon Music and Amazon shopping apps earlier this year, but alarms can only be set through Alexa-enabled devices.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
