Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Alexa now available in Amazon Music app Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Amazon today extended its voice assistant, Alexa, into the Amazon Music app for listeners in the U.S., U.K., Germany, and Austria.
“Millions of Alexa customers have enjoyed listening to music on Echo devices, and with Amazon Music’s innovative Alexa voice controls, customers can ask for music based on genre, decade, mood, tempo, activity or even the lyrics, if they can’t remember the name of a song,” Amazon said in a statement.
To speak with Alexa in Amazon Music, just tap the new Alexa icon at the bottom the screen when using the app.
Amazon Music users on iOS and Android can tell Alexa things like, “Play the latest Open Mike Eagle” or “Play Coldplay from the 2000s.” Starting a road trip? You can say, “Alexa play music for a road trip” and be on your way. Want to get more specific? You can say things like, “Alexa play classic rock for lifting weights” or “Play hip-hop for cardio.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Bringing Alexa to the Amazon Music app is the company’s latest effort to make Alexa master of your media universe. Last month, Amazon gave Alexa control of the Fire TV stick and the ability to stream music through multiple Echo devices.
This is also the latest tit-for-tat in the chat wars between tech giants. With the launch of iOS 11 last week, iPhone and iPad users gained the ability to treat Siri as a personal DJ. The Apple HomePod , which is anticipated to be a major competitor for Amazon’s line of Echo smart speaker devices, is scheduled for release before the end of the year.
Alexa came to the Amazon app for shopping in July.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
