Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release Element AI Announces Funding from Microsoft Ventures Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Element AI is Microsoft Ventures’ first investment in a new fund for AI companies focused on inclusive growth and positive impact MONTREAL–(BUSINESS WIRE)–December 12, 2016– Element AI, an artificial intelligence incubator, announced today an investment by Microsoft Ventures. With this funding, Element AI will help large corporations, world-class entrepreneurs and researchers solve hard problems with AI.
Element AI is the first company to receive funding from Microsoft Ventures’ newly announced fund for startups that are responsibly harnessing the promise of AI to empower people and business. More details on the new Microsoft Ventures fund can be found here: https://blogs.microsoft.com/?p=130589 Founded by serial entrepreneurs Jean-François Gagné and Nicolas Chapados, along with Yoshua Bengio, a co-father of Deep Learning technology, Element AI launched earlier this year to help organizations implement an “AI-First” strategy, enabling any organization to develop their own artificial intelligence solutions.
“We all know ‘You’re only as good as your tools’ and now Element AI is getting supercharged with Microsoft Ventures,” said Element AI CEO Jean-François Gagné. “Along with a strategic investment that is a real vote of confidence for Element AI, Microsoft is giving us the tools and services which will help our AI network achieve scale, which will undoubtedly create new technologies that help tackle some of the world’s biggest problems.” “AI holds great promise to augment human capabilities and improve society,” said Nagraj Kashyap, Corporate Vice President, Microsoft Ventures. “Microsoft is committed to democratizing AI with guiding principles to drive positive impact. Element AI shares our approach and philosophy.” About Element AI Element AI is a Montreal-based platform that helps organizations embrace an AI-First strategy. Composed of a research lab uniquely connected to the world’s best academic ecosystems, Element AI launches and incubates advanced Artificial Intelligence solutions in partnership with large corporations and research institutions. Co-founded by Jean-François Gagné, Yoshua Bengio, Nicolas Chapados, and Jean-Sébastien Cournoyer, Element AI is headquartered in Montreal, Quebec.
http://www.elementai.com View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20161212005362/en/ Element AI Gregg Delman, 415-935-1804 gregg@gthreemedia.com VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
