Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft’s live translation tool for PowerPoint is now open to all Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Microsoft has made its Presentation Translator feature for PowerPoint open to the public. The PowerPoint add-in is designed to add real-time captions to a live presentation in a wide variety of languages, using the power of machine learning.
Users can now download the add-in, which works with PowerPoint 2013 and 2016 on Windows. When users start a presentation, they can speak in Arabic, Chinese (Mandarin), English, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Portuguese, Russian, and Spanish, and listeners can see content translated into one of more than 60 different languages.
The feature is designed to make it easier to overcome language barriers during key presentations and can also help people who are deaf or hard of hearing understand what’s being said, since it will convert speech to text on the fly.
Presentation Translator was first announced at Microsoft’s Build developer conference earlier this year.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! It’s based on the tech titan’s past investments in the translation space, including its Microsoft Translator service and mobile app that can perform translations between languages in real time. That same system, which is available as one of Microsoft’s Cognitive Services through its cloud platform, underpins Presentation Translator.
Making translation available for its customers has been a key focus for Microsoft. The company previously launched a Skype Translator feature that lets participants in a video call see and hear a machine translation of the words they’re saying.
The news is part of a broader set of AI announcements the company made at an event in London today. In addition, Microsoft is bringing together a dedicated research team of 100 people to work on key AI problems, including advancing general artificial intelligence, human and AI collaboration, and ethical issues around integrating AI into society.
Microsoft is also unveiling a new AI for Earth program to provide cloud services and AI tools to organizations that are looking to tackle problems like climate change and biodiversity. The company has committed to pouring $2 million into the program, which will also include training on the use of AI in those applications.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
