Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google launches Cloud Video Intelligence API in private beta Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google Cloud Video Intelligence API being demonstrated at Google Cloud Next 2017 in San Francisco.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
At its Google Cloud Next conference in San Francisco today, Google announced the launch of a Cloud Video Intelligence application programming interface (API) for figuring out what videos are about and detecting objects within them. After the service has processed videos, the service lets people search for videos that contain certain things.
Organizations must fill out a form to get access to the new API.
Google Research has been working on understanding the content inside of videos and has released data sets to advance research, even outside its own doors. Now Google is externalizing its existing capabilities for other organizations to use. Google has previously done this with image recognition and speech recognition.
“Cloud Video Intelligence API uses powerful deep-learning models, built using frameworks like TensorFlow and applied on large-scale media platforms like YouTube,” Fei-Fei Li, chief scientist for Google Cloud artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning, wrote in a blog post.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Google’s two biggest public cloud competitors, Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Microsoft Azure, do not currently offer this functionality. A startup called Clarifai does offer it.
Also today Google announced that its Cloud Machine Learning Engine, formerly known as Cloud Machine Learning, has now launched out of beta. The same goes for Google’s Cloud Datalab.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
