Search @mouseenter="selectedIndex = index + '-' + key"> Search Result Tech Science Life Social Good Entertainment SHOP THE BEST Travel Product Reviews DEALS Newsletters VIDEOS > > People will ask ChatGPT anything Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Flipboard What will you ask ChatGPT? Credit: Getty Images: SOPA Images / Contributor Artificial Intelligence is trendy, baby! Between AI self-portraits created by Lensa and Open AI's release of ChatGPT, chances are you've seen a lot of AI-generated images and text on your feeds this week. And it doesn't seem to be slowing down anytime soon. In fact, on Dec. 5, ChatGPT surpassed 1 million users.
ChatGPT is Open AI's new chatbot that can seemingly answer any question. It's an impressive feat, sure, but you should be forewarned that the information may not be completely accurate. The prompt page cautions users that ChatGPT "may occasionally generate incorrect information" and "may occasionally produce harmful instructions or biased content." But that hasn't held users back from testing how far the AI will go by asking it a plethora of questions.
The responses have been helpful and not-so-helpful and, sometimes, just plain wrong. In short, social media is social media-ing and these new AI tools are the latest way patrons of the internet are generating content online.
SEE ALSO: The questions range from sincere to trolling with quite literally everything in-between. Here are some examples of the variety of things ChatGPT is being asked, much to the delight of the internet.
The ChatGPT chatbot from OpenAI is amazing, creative, and totally wrong OpenAI's ChatGPT has answers to life's great mysteries (Just not real ones) Lensa AI app: What to know about the self portrait generator Reddit-trained artificial intelligence warns researchers about... itself Using ChatGPT for good: Using ChatGPT for evil: Noooo don't make ChapGPT write smut! Respect to ChatGPT for being an Elon Musk anti.
One of many niche scripts the ChatGPT has written.
ChatGPT is also a...songwriter? The crossover we didn't know we needed.
May we never run out of questions to ask ChatGPT.
Topics Artificial Intelligence Twitter Elena is a tech reporter and the resident Gen Z expert at Mashable. She covers TikTok and digital trends. She recently graduated from UC Berkeley with a BA in American History. Email her at [email protected] or follow her @ecaviar_.
Loading...
Subscribe TECH SCIENCE LIFE SOCIAL GOOD ENTERTAINMENT BEST PRODUCTS DEALS About Mashable Contact Us We're Hiring Newsletters Sitemap About Ziff Davis Privacy Policy Terms of Use Advertise Accessibility Do Not Sell My Personal Information AdChoices
