Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts A new tool uses AI to spot text written by AI By Will Knight archive page Text from Infinite Jest analyzed by the Harvard-MIT-IBM tool.
Harvard University AI algorithms can generate text convincing enough to fool the average human—potentially providing a way to mass-produce fake news, bogus reviews, and phony social accounts. Thankfully, AI can now be used to identify fake text, too.
The news: Researchers from Harvard University and the MIT-IBM Watson AI Lab have developed a new tool for spotting text that has been generated using AI. Called the Giant Language Model Test Room (GLTR), it exploits the fact that AI text generators rely on statistical patterns in text, as opposed to the actual meaning of words and sentences. In other words, the tool can tell if the words you’re reading seem too predictable to have been written by a human hand.
The context: Misinformation is increasingly being automated, and the technology required to generate fake text and imagery is advancing fast.
 AI-powered tools such as this may become valuable weapons in the fight to catch fake news, deepfakes, and twitter bots.
Faking it: Researchers at OpenAI recently demonstrated an algorithm capable of dreaming up surprisingly realistic passages.
 They fed huge amounts of text into a large machine-learning model, which learned to pick up statistical patterns in those words. The Harvard team developed their tool using a version of the OpenAI code that was released publicly.
How predictable: GLTR highlights words that are statistically likely to appear after the preceding word in the text. As shown in the passage above (from Infinite Jest) , the most predictable words are green; less predictable are yellow and red; and least predictable are purple. When tested on snippets of text written by OpenAI’s algorithm, it finds a lot of predictability. Genuine news articles and scientific abstracts contain more surprises.
Mind and machine: The researchers behind GLTR carried out another experiment as well. They asked Harvard students to identify AI-generated text—first without the tool, and then with the help of its highlighting. The students were able to spot only half of all fakes on their own, but 72% when given the tool. “Our goal is to create human and AI collaboration systems,” says Sebastian Gehrmann, a PhD student involved in the work.
If you're interested, you can try it out for yourself.
hide by Will Knight Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos New approaches to the tech talent shortage MIT Technology Review Insights Deep Dive Artificial intelligence This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI The tool, called Nightshade, messes up training data in ways that could cause serious damage to image-generating AI models.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Driving companywide efficiencies with AI Advanced AI and ML capabilities revolutionize how administrative and operations tasks are done.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page Rogue superintelligence and merging with machines: Inside the mind of OpenAI’s chief scientist An exclusive conversation with Ilya Sutskever on his fears for the future of AI and why they’ve made him change the focus of his life’s work.
By Will Douglas Heaven archive page Generative AI deployment: Strategies for smooth scaling Our global poll examines key decision points for putting AI to use in the enterprise.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
