Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Autodesk leads $7 million investment in construction software startup Bridgit Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Brigit cofounders Mallorie Brodie and Lauren Lake Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Canadian construction software company Bridgit today announced the close of a $7 million funding round led by Autodesk with participation from Salesforce Ventures, StandUp Ventures, Sands Capital, and Export Development Canada (EDC). Bridgit was founded in 2013 by CEO Mallorie Brodie and COO Lauren Lake and integrates the data contractors and construction site managers need to understand current demand and plan for the future.
“In the span of the past five years or so, construction site managers have grown to expect integrated solutions so data can flow between other construction technology companies,” Lake told VentureBeat in a phone interview.
As part of the deal, Bridgit will integrate with solutions from Autodesk Construction Cloud, whose Construction IQ uses AI to evaluate safety and regulatory compliance — based on 150 million construction process observations.
The funding will be used for product development, research and development initiatives, and continued investment with different partners in the construction landscape. The Bridgit Bench workforce planning product is also preparing to grow its forecasting capabilities.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Bridgit Bench considers factors like workforce utilization rates, hiring needs, profit, and contracts under management and aims for projections that can look farther into the future.
“We are very actively working on improving forecasting within our product so construction companies don’t just have a view of what their project allocations are and their people needs are today, but they’re able to forecast up to five years into the future and get some recommendations on which individuals may be a good fit for that job based on availability and skill set,” Brodie said.
Bridgit currently has 50 employees and is based in Waterloo, Canada. The company has raised $15.7 million to date.
Construction AI startups are also exploring ways to automate construction sites with robotics, drones, computer vision, and data. Other startups working to digitize data for construction startups or power AI solutions include Indus.ai , Disperse , and OnSiteIQ.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
