Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google Maps now displays bike-sharing stations worldwide Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google Maps: Bike-sharing Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google Maps is bringing bike-sharing station information to global markets from today, more than a year after first debuting the feature in New York City.
Google introduced an integration with Citi Bike in the Big Apple last April, showing travelers the nearest bike-sharing station and revealing how many bikes are currently available. Now, the internet giant is expanding the integrations to dozens of markets across the Americas, Asia, and Europe — this is due to a new real-time bike-share data feed gleaned via a partnership with ITO World.
From this week, on Android and iOS, riders will be able to locate their nearest bike-sharing station in 23 new cities, though more will be added shortly: Barcelona, Berlin, Brussels, Budapest, Chicago, Dublin, Hamburg, Helsinki, Kaohsiung, London, Los Angeles, Lyon, Madrid, Mexico City, Montreal, New Taipei City, Rio de Janeiro, San Francisco Bay Area, São Paulo, Toronto, Vienna, Warsaw, and Zurich.
How it works Riders search for a specific bike-share service in their city, for example “Santander cycle hire” in London, and Google Maps will show where the nearest stations are and whether there are any bikes available. Alternatively, it is also a useful tool to establish whether there are empty spaces available to drop off a bike.
Above: Google Maps bike-sharing This “multi-modal” embrace is part of a growing trend in the transport app realm, as cities open up to new ways of moving around. Ride-hailing giant Uber already shows real-time public transit data directly inside its app, for example, while a few months back Microsoft, Moovit, and TomTom teamed up for a new multi-modal transport platform.
It’s worth noting here that Google Maps has sported an integration with Lime’s bike and scooter service for a while , but this latest rollout is specifically about cities’ fixed-location bike-share stations, rather than dockless “floating” transport alternatives such as Lime.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
