Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Indus.ai raises $8 million for construction site management AI Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Indus.ai today closed an $8 million series A round for its construction project computer vision solution, which delivers real-time insights to project managers.
The startup uses images and video footage from nearly 100 million square feet of construction sites to train an AI system that helps builders monitor the pace of progress on construction projects, ensure safety compliance, and reduce inefficiencies.
The new funding will be used for product development and to growth the company’s marketing and sales teams.
“We call ourselves Indus because it’s industrial AI and we see a huge opportunity in continuing to push forward on safety and productivity for industrial spaces,” Indus.ai CEO Matt Man told VentureBeat in a phone interview.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Indus.ai also focuses on helping companies digitize data for an industry that often looks to manual methods to gather project data, Man said.
Major construction companies around the world are increasingly turning to technology to reduce construction project delays and accident costs. The 2019 KPMG global construction survey of executives at major construction companies found that more than 60% plan to use real-time models to predict risks and returns within the next five years.
Indus.ai competes with a range of companies also interested in using computer vision in industrial environments — from Microsoft’s push to monitor factories for safety compliance to Autodesk computer vision for safety compliance.
The $8 million round was led by Millennium New Horizons, with participation from Foundamental, Groundbreak Ventures, Bootstrap Labs, and Spero Ventures. Indus.ai has raised $11.7 million following a $3.7 million seed round last year.
In other construction tech news, earlier this week Fieldwire raised $33.5 million to help businesses digitize construction site data.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
