The Verge homepage The Verge homepage The Verge The Verge logo.
/ Tech / Reviews / Science / Entertainment / More Menu Expand Menu Tech / Artificial Intelligence Make a 3D model of your face from a single photo with this AI tool Make a 3D model of your face from a single photo with this AI tool / Just look how much Mark is enjoying the wonderful world of 3D By James Vincent , a senior reporter who has covered AI, robotics, and more for eight years at The Verge.
| Share this story Bored? Of course you are, it’s Monday. So why not use this little AI-powered tool to turn a photo of your face into a 3D model, then idly spin it round, pondering exactly how and when super-intelligent robots will liquidate your body and replace you with a perfect 3D-printed simulacra.
Okay, so that’s probably not what’s going to happen here, as this widget is the result of some normal research from The University of Nottingham and Kingston University in the UK. (Although, that’s exactly what super-intelligent robots would want you to think.) As the researchers note in a recent paper describing their work, “3D face reconstruction is a fundamental computer vision problem of extraordinary difficulty.” You usually need multiple pictures of the same face from different angles in order to map every contour. But, by feeding a bunch of photographs and corresponding 3D models into a neural network, the researchers were able to teach an AI system how to quickly extrapolate the shape of a face from a single photo.
Look, here’s a 3D David Bowie: And a 3D mask: Being able to create 3D models of faces like this could have all sorts of applications in the digital world: from 3D avatars for video games, to warping your face in an augmented reality video, to VR social media. And, as AI makes it easier to turn all sorts of 2D photos into 3D objects (not just faces) it’ll be easy to create virtual environments of all sorts.
Try it for yourself here.
Sam Altman fired as CEO of OpenAI Breaking: OpenAI board in discussions with Sam Altman to return as CEO Windows is now an app for iPhones, iPads, Macs, and PCs Screens are good, actually What happened to Sam Altman? Verge Deals / Sign up for Verge Deals to get deals on products we've tested sent to your inbox daily.
From our sponsor Advertiser Content From More from Tech The latest AI copyright lawsuit involves Mike Huckabee and his books Amazon, Microsoft, and India crack down on tech support scams Amazon eliminated plastic packaging at one of its warehouses Amazon has renewed Gen V for a sophomore season Advertiser Content From Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell Or Share My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status How We Rate and Review Products Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement The Verge is a vox media network Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2023 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved
