Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Will Knight Business Google Just Added Generative AI to Search Courtesy of Google Save this story Save Save this story Save Six months ago, Google didn’t appear remotely worried about its search business. Then OpenAI’s ChatGPT was unleashed, and Microsoft’s Bing spawned a chatbot.
At Google’s annual I/O conference today, the search giant announced that it will infuse results with generative artificial intelligence technology similar to that behind ChatGPT. The company is launching an experimental version of its prized search engine that incorporates text generation like that powering ChatGPT and other advanced chatbots.
Google’s reimagined search still involves typing a query, and it still responds with links to websites, snippets of content, and ads. But in some situations, the top of the page will feature text synthesized by AI that pulls from information found on different sources across the web, and link to those webpages. A user can ask follow up questions to get more specific information.
A query about the coronation of Britain’s new king might be met with a couple of paragraphs summarizing the event. If asked about ebikes, Google’s algorithms can list bullet-point recaps of product reviews published by various websites, and link to online stores where a user can make a purchase. The revamped version of search will be accessible in the US via a new feature called Search Labs , but it will not be activated by default or for all Google users.
Google’s AI-infused search is considerably tamer than ChatGPT, eschewing an anthropomorphized persona and avoiding topics that might be deemed controversial, such as politics and medical or financial advice. When asked if Joe Biden is a good president or for information about different US states’ abortion laws, for example, Google’s generative AI product declined to answer.
“The technology is very early on, it has its challenges, and we will make mistakes certainly,” says Liz Reid, vice president of search at Google, who gave WIRED a preview of the new features ahead of I/O.
Video: Google Google is moving quickly to add ChatGPT-like features to search, but whether users will find them useful remains to be seen. Product searches, for instance, synthesized material from different reviews, but it was not immediately obvious how the brief summaries might improve the search experience.
The unpolished feel of these new features may reflect the fact that their launch is a defensive move. Google has invested huge sums and major resources in AI over recent years, with CEO Sundar Pichai often calling the company “AI first.” Yet Google still found itself wrong-footed with the arrival of ChatGPT, a surprisingly clever and garrulous—though also fundamentally flawed —chatbot from OpenAI.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight ChatGPT is powered by a machine learning model trained to predict the words likely to follow a string of text by digesting huge amounts of text, including vast numbers of web pages. Additional training, provided by humans rating the quality of the bot’s responses, made ChatGPT more adept at answering questions and holding a conversation.
Because ChatGPT was trained on much of the web, users quickly found it a promising new way to search, even if the bot is prone to fabricating information.
 Microsoft seized on this potential by investing $10 billion in OpenAI in January and then incorporating ChatGPT into Bing a month later.
The hype and strong interest from users, who fed queries to ChatGPT and Bing chat by the millions, left Google scrambling to catch up. Researchers at the company had developed some of the core technology at work in the new chatbots, but Google had been cautious about publicly launching its precursor to ChatGPT, called LaMDA.
In March, Google changed strategy, announcing a ChatGPT competitor called Bard. In April, Google said it would combine its AI research group with another Alphabet company focused on AI, DeepMind. Now Google is infusing text-generation technology into its core product, search.
Google’s dominance and reputation could make this latest move the biggest test yet of the power and usefulness of ChatGPT-style technology. It’s also risky.
Because language models can fabricate, companies have to develop ways to check that the information served to users is accurate. And some online publishers are concerned about search companies scraping and regurgitating their content in ways that mean fewer referrals. Google also needs to avoid cannibalizing its search advertising business, which provides a significant chunk of the company’s revenue.
Google’s cautious rollout “suggests they are not ready for any major changes to search yet,” says Aravind Srinivas, CEO of Perplexity AI , a startup also working on generative AI for web search.
 He says the way Google is combining generative content with conventional search results—not replacing them—shows how hesitant the company is hesitant to mess with its search advertising business.
The capabilities of ChatGPT and other advanced AI models have done more than just unsettle Google. Some experts worry that they signal accelerated progress in AI, which might lead to technology that’s more difficult to contain and control. Geoffrey Hinton, a pioneer in the field and formerly one of Google’s most respected researchers, recently left the company in order to draw attention to the dangers he believes these AI models raise.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight At I/O, Google is announcing a dizzying number of new projects and services that use the kind of generative AI found in ChatGPT. But its first efforts to fold the technology into a dominant search product may be the most consequential for its many users, and for the company itself.
You Might Also Like … 📩 Get the long view on tech with Steven Levy's Plaintext newsletter Watch this guy work, and you’ll finally understand the TikTok era How Telegram became a terrifying weapon in the Israel-Hamas War Inside Elon Musk’s first election crisis —a day after he “freed” the bird The ultra-efficient farm of the future is in the sky The best pickleball paddles for beginners and pros 🌲 Our Gear team has branched out with a new guide to the best sleeping pads and fresh picks for the best coolers and binoculars Senior Writer X Topics Google Alphabet Search search engines machine learning artificial intelligence io Nelson C.J.
Lila Hassan Joel Khalili Peter Guest Aarian Marshall Matt Burgess Paresh Dave Matt Burgess Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
