Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Lily Hay Newman Security As Chips Shrink, Rowhammer Attacks Get Harder to Stop Even as chipmakers work to protect against Rowhammer attacks, other advances have made DRAM even more vulnerable.
Illustration: MirageC/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save In 2015, Researchers at Google made a troubling discovery: The data theft technique known as “Rowhammer,” previously thought of as a theoretical concern, could be exploited in real-world conditions. Now a different group of Google computer scientists have shown that the problem has only gotten worse, thanks in part to improvements in how chips are designed.
Rowhammer is a physical hacking technique that manipulates the electric charge in computer memory chips (known as DRAM) to corrupt or exfiltrate data. In an attack, hackers run the same program repeatedly on a "row" of DRAM transistors to "hammer" that row until it leaks electricity into the adjacent row. When done in a targeted way, that leakage can physically flip a bit in the next row of transistors from 1 to 0 or vice versa. By strategically flipping enough bits, an attacker can begin to manipulate the target system and gain a digital foothold.
In the years since the original 2014 Rowhammer research, chipmakers have added mitigations that monitor adjacent rows for potentially suspicious behavior. But as chips continue to get smaller, the ripple effect that comes from hammering a given row could potentially flip bits two or more rows away. Think of Gallagher smashing a watermelon.
 You can protect the front of the audience by giving them all plastic ponchos. But if he swings hard enough, and the crowd is packed in tight enough, the rind and pulp could make contact with faces two or three rows deep.
The researchers dubbed their attack “Half-Double,” and note that the technique wasn't practical on older generations of DRAM where transistor rows were slightly farther apart. As whatever's left of Moore's Law packs transistors ever more densely together, though, the risk of spillover in Rowhammer attacks is increasing.
“This is the result of miniaturization,” the Google researchers told WIRED in a written response to questions. “In our experiments with older DDR4 chips, this technique was not successful. We are releasing this research today in order to advance the understanding of this threat. We are hopeful that it will further discussions on mitigations that are long lasting and effective.” Google disclosed its findings to the semiconductor engineering trade organization JEDEC, which has issued two stop-gap mitigations. And the researchers have been coordinating with other industry partners as well to raise awareness about the issue. But it will take time for chipmakers to fully understand the implications.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight “Imagine your house is huge,” says Daniel Moghimi, a postdoctoral scholar at the University of California, San Diego who has studied Rowhammer and microarchitectural attacks. “If your adjacent neighbor who also has a huge house plays loud music, you can probably hear it from your house, but maybe not from three doors down. But when you live in an apartment complex where units are packed much closer to each other, the music will bother neighbors in a lot of apartments. It's the same idea with the density of DRAM cells and their closeness to each other." A full fix will also require rethinking how chips get designed, and would apply to future generations of DRAM. To go back Mighimi's metaphor, it's easier to build a new apartment with thicker walls and more insulation than it is to retrofit an existing building.
Moghimi says that researchers already understood this potential risk in theory, but that the Google findings, once again, demonstrate a plausible, real-world attack. “It shows that it's more practical than a lot of people think,” he says.
This isn't the first time Rowhammer attacks have seemed to be resolved and then roared back. Researchers at Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam have repeatedly shown in the last 18 months that current chip defenses against more traditional Rowhammer attacks can be defeated. But the Google findings carry an additional warning that advances in the size and efficiency of memory chips potentially come with new risks from Rowhammer.
These hacking techniques would require skill and even some luck to pull off in an actual targeted attack. Given that potential Rowhammer exposure exists in basically every computing device out there, though, its progress is worth taking seriously.
📩 The latest on tech, science, and more: Get our newsletters ! The 60-year-old scientific screwup that helped Covid kill The cicadas are coming.
Let’s eat them ! Decades-old flaws affect almost every Wi-Fi device How to take a slick, professional headshot with your phone What a crossword AI reveals about humans’ way with words 👁️ Explore AI like never before with our new database 🎮 WIRED Games: Get the latest tips, reviews, and more ✨ Optimize your home life with our Gear team’s best picks, from robot vacuums to affordable mattresses to smart speakers Senior Writer X Topics chips hacking memory Kate O'Flaherty Dell Cameron Lily Hay Newman Lily Hay Newman Dell Cameron Andy Greenberg Dhruv Mehrotra Matt Burgess Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
