Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Cecilia D'Anastasio Gear Valve’s Steam Deck Will Take PC Games on the Go This December Photograph: Valve Save this story Save Save this story Save Sick of waiting for your favorite PC games to come to Switch? Valve today unveiled its rumored Steam Deck , a handheld machine for PC gaming. It’s due out December 2021 and has models priced at $399, $529 and $649—scaled by storage and processing speed.
The Steam Deck’s big pitch is on-the-go, faithful PC gaming, but it’s taking an even bigger swing: It’s basically a handheld PC. Users can install and operate PC software on it, like a web browser, other game stores— including the Epic Games Store—and video-streaming services. It can be connected to a monitor and other gaming peripherals, such as a keyboard and mouse (a dock contains ports for these, plus Ethernet). And thanks to its Cloud saving feature, players can easily pick up game save files between their Steam Deck and PC. A user’s existing Steam library will live on it, basically immediately upon logging in, because it operates off a modified SteamOS. So not only can players download games like Doom Eternal , Death Stranding , or Hades , they can chat with Steam friends and trawl through Steam’s community fora.
“We don't think people should be locked into a certain direction or a certain set of software that they can install,” Valve designer Lawrence Yang said to IGN in an interview.
 “If you buy a Steam Deck, it's a PC. You can install whatever you want on it, you can attach any peripherals you want to it. Maybe a better way to think about it is that it's a small PC with a controller attached, as opposed to a gaming console.” The Steam Deck looks exactly how we’ve come to expect of modern portable gaming devices: a rectangle with two thumbsticks and a 7-inch LCD touchscreen—though almost an inch larger than the Nintendo Switch’s. Its resolution is 1280 x 800 pixels, and its display has a 60-Hz refresh rate. Unlike the Switch, the Steam Deck has two square trackpads for “PC games that were never designed to be handheld,” Valve writes in its announcement.
 That trackpad, plus the console’s gyro capabilities, should help with aiming, shooting, and moving games’ cameras around. Despite trackpads’ bad rep, Valve says the Steam Deck’s will have 55 percent better latency compared to the Steam Controller.
A little surprisingly, the Steam Deck also features four rear buttons on the back of the console—something Xbox Elite controller obsessives have been proselytizing for years. They will function much like a keyboard and are totally customizable depending on users’ keybinding preferences.
The Steam Deck comes with 64, 256, or 512 GB of storage, depending on the model, plus microSD card slots—helpful for installing enormous games optimized for PC, like Death Stranding , which may not even fit on that 64-GB base model. It’s got 16 GBs of RAM and advertises a battery life of between seven and eight hours. After a hands-on with the device, IGN’s reviewer said it stayed “comfortably cool” throughout all games, including ones like Star Wars: Jedi Fallen Order.
 IGN compares its 2-teraflop AMD Accelerated Processing Unit power (a combined CPU and graphics card, this one custom-built by AMD for Valve ) to that of an Xbox One or PlayStation 4. Its reviewer said the Steam Deck is able to smoothly run current PC games at medium or high settings because of its 720p resolution target. (Strangely, maybe even disappointingly, not 1080p.) Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Valve has a history of releasing ahead-of-the-curve hardware that doesn’t quite work out. Its 2015 Steam Machine was a prebuilt, Linux-powered gaming computer that ran Steam and Steam games.
 It flopped. Three years later, Valve quietly removed references to the hardware. Reviewers condemned its poor technical performance and wonky software. Also in 2015, Valve released its significantly more beloved Steam Link, which would wirelessly facilitate PC gaming on television monitors and mobile devices. Valve stopped supporting it in 2018. Valve has also invested heavily in VR headsets, which are well reviewed but not very popular.
The Steam Deck does seem a little too good to be true, but for now, I will be a willing participant in its vision for portable PC gaming. PC gaming anywhere and everywhere is the future.
 So is connecting the anywhere to the everywhere.
📩 The latest on tech, science, and more: Get our newsletters ! How fringe stem cell treatments won far-right allies Help! How do I accept that I'm burned out? What you need to edit studio-grade home videos Florida's condo collapse signals the concrete crack-up How underground fiber optics spy on humans above 👁️ Explore AI like never before with our new database 🎮 WIRED Games: Get the latest tips, reviews, and more 💻 Upgrade your work game with our Gear team’s favorite laptops , keyboards , typing alternatives , and noise-canceling headphones Staff Writer X Topics video games gaming news Valve Mobile Console Games PC Games gaming tips portable gaming Brendan Nystedt Eric Ravenscraft Louryn Strampe Matt Jancer Boone Ashworth Simon Hill Julian Chokkattu Reece Rogers WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Black Friday Sale: Up to 40% off Dyson technology + bonus gifts GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Best Buy coupon: Score $300 off select laptops VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
