Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Chemist Breaks Down How At-Home Covid Tests Work About Released on 02/28/2022 [Narrator] Over the past two years you've likely taken a COVID rapid antigen test and you probably know what to do.
Swab.
Swirl.
And wait for results.
A unique biochemical reaction involving saline, tiny particles of gold and paper with antibodies is helping to give us quick and relatively accurate results.
Never felt more attractive in my life.
Okay. Three, four Mississippi, five. [laughs] [Narrator] Today, Kate is taking a COVID test while explaining the biochemical reactions.
[calm music] 15 Mississippi.
I'm gonna go the other way.
Okay, now I'm gonna do the disgusting thing, and stick this in the back of my throat.
Ugh.
Okay, okay, okay, that's all I can do.
So an epidemiologist named Michael Mina, he is strongly suggesting for this particular variant, for Omicron, that you swab in the back of your throat and your nose if you're gonna do the rapid test.
And so we're just looking for the highest viral load.
Some people are swabbing their nose and getting a negative and then they swab their throat and getting a positive.
And that is just supporting the fact that Omicron is definitely living in our throat.
We are having a high viral load there and it's more easily detected if you swab there.
[Narrator] Once we've collected our sample the chemistry starts to begin and molecular forces take our sample in a buffer solution.
So the buffer solution is almost entirely salt water.
And so it's like 99.7% salt water, which really sodium chloride in water.
On top of that we have a conjugate acid and a conjugate base.
And so these are two different versions of a phosphate molecule.
One is called sodium hydrogen phosphate and the other one is called potassium dihydrogen phosphate.
And they lock the solutions pH into about a pH of 7.4.
[Narrator] This is where the chemistry comes in.
The acid and the base and the buffer solution create a conjugate acid-based pair.
A conjugate acid and base are two different molecules that are almost identical except for one hydrogen atom.
So one piece has the hydrogen atom.
One piece does not.
And buffer solutions are resistant to big changes in pH.
So if an acid comes along the conjugate base is going to eat that up and keep it at a pH of 7.4.
If a base comes in the conjugate acid is gonna eat that part up and again lock the pH at 7.4 [Narrator] That pH of 7.4.
The same pH as our blood, helping to mimic the conditions of the human body.
One, two, three, four.
Beautiful.
[Narrator] Now that our sample is locked in with a pH of 7.4 we can see whether we are positive or negative.
And that tiny spot where it says S, that's where nano particles of gold reside.
Such a tiny amount of gold in there.
You couldn't sell it.
You cannot see it.
You can't turn it into a necklace or anything.
It is absolutely minuscule.
The gold is connected to an antibody.
And so there's kind of like a chunk of gold and an antibody right here.
And if that end protein from the COVID virus is present in the specimen, Antibody 1 is gonna reach out and grab it.
[Narrator] Those antibodies are immune responses to a specific antigen.
An antigen is the part of the virus that is easily distinguishable.
So technically pollen could be an antigen.
Any foreign body that comes into your body could be an antigen.
But a lot of times we talk about it in the context of a virus.
And so if gold nano particle, plus Antibody 1, plus COVID virus, goes up to that T level, Antibody 2 now reaches out and grabs onto that COVID virus and locks it into place.
So you've got gold, Antibody 1, COVID, and then Antibody 2 stuck on that T line.
And now, boom, you've got a color change.
So a positive test is gonna happen right away.
As soon as that gold nano particle reaches that T level and the antibody grabs onto the COVID virus you're going to see that color change.
Now a negative test is essentially a lack of a positive test.
And so what we're doing is just making sure that in that allotted time that T level never changes colors.
[Narrator] Now, there are some caveats as to how accurately your test results come in.
Number one would be, if you swabbed correctly.
Lab scientists are getting the best results because they know exactly how to perform these tests.
Followed by healthcare workers, they're second.
And then the third is the regular, the rest of us that are just at home doing that.
Second thing that could detect your test is your viral load.
So how much of that virus is actually sitting in your body.
[Narrator] And there's also ways people cheat the test.
In fact, a few TikToks have shown tests with Coca-Cola's Zero Sugar, strawberry juice or Monster Energy get a positive result.
These rapid tests are very pH sensitive.
That's why we use the buffer to lock our sample into a pH of 7.4.
If we start introducing something like soda which has a pH around 3, or something like juice which has a pH around 4, you're going to immediately mess with the pH of your sample and that's going to completely negate the result of the test.
And you might get a false positive.
You might get a false negative, but it's just definitely not accurate.
So parents out there, if your kid is cheating by using soda or something to get a false positive, to get outta class, the best way you can figure that out is grab that original buffer solution, shake it over that T line, and if it was messed with, if soda or juice was used, you're going to immediately see it switch back and you'll get the accurate result which would likely be a negative.
Now for the first time, everybody, no matter who you are, what your look like, what your gender is, you are actually going through these at home tests.
And I think that's really valuable and kind of neat that we're all at home scientists.
I truly hope we use this technology to move forward to the flu.
That would be my goal.
If we could use this every single season, if you think you have the flu, test yourself before you go outside, wear a mask still.
I would love to see that moving forward cause' that's just gonna be incredibly helpful for our public health.
How the Disco Clam Uses Light to Fight Super-Strong Predators Architect Explains How Homes Could be 3D Printed on Mars and Earth Scientist Explains How Rare Genetics Allow Some to Sleep Only 4 Hours a Night Scientist Explains Unsinkable Metal That Could Prevent Disasters at Sea Is Invisibility Possible? An Inventor and a Physicist Explain Scientist Explains Why Her Lab Taught Rats to Drive Tiny Cars Mycologist Explains How a Slime Mold Can Solve Mazes How the Two-Hour Marathon Limit Was Broken Research Suggests Cats Like Their Owners as Much as Dogs Researcher Explains Deepfake Videos Scientist Explains How to Study the Metabolism of Ultra High Flying Geese Hurricane Hunter Explains How They Track and Predict Hurricanes Scientist Explains Viral Fish Cannon Video A Biohacker Explains Why He Turned His Leg Into a Hotspot Scientist Explains What Water Pooling in Kilauea's Volcanic Crater Means Bill Nye Explains the Science Behind Solar Sailing Vision Scientist Explains Why These Praying Mantises Are Wearing 3D Glasses Why Some Cities Are Banning Facial Recognition Technology Scientist's Map Explains Climate Change Scientist Explains How Moon Mining Would Work Scientist Explains How She Captured Rare Footage of a Giant Squid Doctor Explains How Sunscreen Affects Your Body Stranger Things is Getting a New Mall! But Today Malls Are Dying. What Happened? The Limits of Human Endurance Might Be Our Guts Meet the First College Students to Launch a Rocket Into Space Scientist Explains Why Dogs Can Smell Better Than Robots A Harvard Professor Explains What the Avengers Can Teach Us About Philosophy NASA Twin Study: How Space Changes Our Bodies What the Black Hole Picture Means for Researchers Scientist Explains How to Levitate Objects With Sound Why Scientists and Artists Want The Blackest Substances on Earth Biologist Explains How Drones Catching Whale "Snot" Helps Research Researcher Explains Why Humans Can't Spot Real-Life Deepfake Masks Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About The Coronavirus VFX Artist Breaks Down This Year's Best Visual Effects Nominees How Doctors on Earth Treated a Blood Clot in Space Scientist Explains Why Some Cats Eat Human Corpses Voting Expert Explains How Voting Technology Will Impact the 2020 Election Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About Pandemics ER Doctor Explains How They're Handling Covid-19 Why This Taste Map Is Wrong Q&A: What's Next for the Coronavirus Pandemic? Why Captive Tigers Can’t Be Reintroduced to the Wild How Covid-19 Immunity Compares to Other Diseases 5 Mistakes to Avoid as We Try to Stop Covid-19 How This Emergency Ventilator Could Keep Covid-19 Patients Alive Why NASA Made a Helicopter for Mars Theoretical Physicist Breaks Down the Marvel Multiverse Former NASA Astronaut Explains Jeff Bezos's Space Flight Physics Student Breaks Down Gymnastics Physics What Do Cities Look Like Under a Microscope? Inside the Largest Bitcoin Mine in The U.S.
How Caffeine Has Fueled History How Mushroom Time-Lapses Are Filmed Why You’ll Fail the Milk Crate Challenge Why Vegan Cheese Doesn't Melt How 250 Cameras Filmed Neill Blomkamp's Demonic How Meme Detectives Stop NFT Fraud How Disney Designed a Robotic Spider-Man How Online Conspiracy Groups Compare to Cults Dune Costume Designers Break Down Dune’s Stillsuits Korean Phrases You Missed in 'Squid Game' Why Scientists Are Stress Testing Tardigrades Every Prototype that Led to a Realistic Prosthetic Arm Why the Toilet Needs an Upgrade How Animals Are Evolving Because of Climate Change How Stop-Motion Movies Are Animated at Aardman Astronomer Explains How NASA Detects Asteroids Are We Living In A Simulation? Inside the Journey of a Shipping Container (And Why the Supply Chain Is So Backed Up) The Science of Slow Aging How Nose Swabs Detect New Covid-19 Strains Samsung S22 Ultra Explained in 3 Minutes The Science Behind Elon Musk’s Neuralink Brain Chip Every Prototype to Make a Humanoid Robot Chemist Breaks Down How At-Home Covid Tests Work A Timeline of Russian Cyberattacks on Ukraine VFX Artist Breaks Down Oscar-Nominated CGI Why Smartphone Night Photos Are So Good Now We Invented the Perfect WIRED Autocomplete Glue How Everything Everywhere All at Once's Visual Effects Were Made How Dogs Coevolved with Humans How an Architect Redesigns NYC Streets Viking Expert Breaks Down The Northman Weapons J. Kenji López-Alt Breaks Down the Science of Stir-Fry How A.I. Is Changing Hollywood How Trash Goes From Garbage Cans to Landfills Veterinarian Explains How to Prevent Pet Separation Anxiety The Science Behind Genetically Modified Mosquitoes How Scientists & Filmmakers Brought Prehistoric Planet's Dinosaurs to Life All the Ways Google Gets Street View Images How Public Cameras Recognize and Track You How the Nuro Robotic Delivery Car Was Built Biologist Explains the Unexpected Origins of Feathers in Fashion Surgeons Break Down Separating Conjoined Twins Former Air Force Pilot Breaks Down UFO Footage Bug Expert Explains Why Cicadas Are So Loud The Best of CES 2021 Health Expert Explains What You Need to Know About Quarantines Scientist Explains How People Might Hibernate Like Bears Could a Chernobyl Level Nuclear Disaster Happen in the US? Neuroscientist Explains ASMR's Effects on the Brain & The Body Why Top Scientists Are Pretending an Asteroid is Headed for Earth Epidemiologist Answers Common Monkeypox Questions Bill Nye Breaks Down Webb Telescope Space Images How This Humanoid Robot Diver Was Designed Every Trick a Pro GeoGuessr Player Uses to Win How NASA Biologists Plan to Grow Plants on the Moon How FIFA Graphics & Gameplay Are Evolving (1993 - 2023) How a Vet Performs Dangerous Surgeries on Wild Animals This Heart is Not Human How Entomologists Use Insects to Solve Crimes Former NASA Astronaut Breaks Down a Rocket Launch Chess Pro Explains How to Spot Cheaters Why Billionaires Are Actually Ruining the Economy How to Keep Your New Year’s Resolutions for More Than a Week The Biology Behind The Last of Us English Teacher Grades Homework By ChatGPT All the Ways a Cold Plunge Affects the Body Spy Historian Debunks Chinese Spy Balloon Theories A.I. Tries 20 Jobs | WIRED Mathematician Breaks Down the Best Ways to Win the Lottery Why Music Festivals Sound Better Than Ever Pro Interpreters vs. AI Challenge: Who Translates Faster and Better? Why The Average Human Couldn't Drive An F1 Car Atomic Expert Explains "Oppenheimer" Bomb Scenes Every 'Useless' Body Part Explained From Head to Toe How Pilots and Scientists Are Thinking About the Future of Air Travel How To Max Out At Every Fantasy Football Position (Ft. Matthew Berry) All The Ways Mt. Everest Can Kill You How Fat Bears Bulk Up To Hibernate (And Why We Love To See It) Why Vintage Tech Is So Valuable To Collectors 8 Photos That Tell The History of Humans In Space How Every Organ in Your Body Ages From Head to Toe Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
