Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Medea Giordano Gear Team Buying Guides The Best Bags Made of Recycled Materials Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Best Overall (a Tote-Backpack) $118 at United By Blue Best Backpack $195 at Mafia Best Sling Bag $85 at Troubadour Best Tote $110 at B&H Photo WIRED's gear team has tested dozens of backpacks , totes, purses , messengers, slings , and even reusable shopping bags.
 More and more of these bags are using recycled materials that come from plastic water bottles, old nylon, and even fishing nets retrieved from the ocean. It's important to find ways to reuse what would otherwise pollute our oceans and sit in landfills forever.
In this guide, we've pooled together our favorite bags that utilize recycled materials in some way, shape, or form. Not every bag is made from 100 percent recycled materials, but every little bit counts. But first, ask yourself: Do you need a new bag? If the one you have now really isn't working out and can't be repaired, then you might get some peace of mind with our picks below. Bags are often categorized by liters, which we explain more in a separate article.
Be sure to read our guides on the Best Recycled and Upcycled Products , Best Recycled Clothing , Best Reusable Products , Best Laptop Bags , and Best Camera Bags.
Updated April 2023: We've added the Troubadour Sling Compact, Lojel City Sling, Timbuk2 Spark Mini Pack, and Targus Zero Waste Backpack as picks. We've also added the Nixon Hatch Bag and Peak Design Everyday Totepack to our Honorable Mentions.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get a 1-year subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Photograph: United By Blue Best Overall (a Tote-Backpack) United by Blue Convertible Carryall United By Blue's Carryall is a nice tote bag that easily converts to a backpack. Both the interior and exterior are made of 100 percent recycled polyester; the straps are 100 percent recycled nylon; and the padding is made of a combo of 60 percent recycled nylon and 40 percent recycled polyester. Even the zipper pulls are 100 percent recycled nylon paracord.
It's water-resistant and sufficiently padded to keep a 15-inch laptop safe from the elements and drops. There are useful organizational pouches inside the front pocket, as well as two water bottle pockets. If you're tired of carrying it on one shoulder, unzip the back pocket and pull out the comfy backpack straps. They clip on to sturdy D-rings at the base.
$118 at United By Blue Photograph: Mafia Bags Best Backpack Mafia Bags Deep Blue Bag All Mafia bags are made from reused sails, and the company employs Californians to cut and manufacture them. This Deep Blue Bag was made in collaboration with industrial designer Yves Béhar and utilizes material from climbing ropes, seat belts, and old wet and dry suits. The front compartment is waterproof and meant to prevent wet towels and bathing suits from leaking through to the rest of your gadgets, in case you hit the beach right after work. A hidden side pocket can house a phone, keys, or wallet, and you can use the small loop at the bottom of the bag to hang it upside down to dry. There's also a drysuit sleeve to keep water bottles securely in place until you pull them out.
All profits from this bag go to the nonprofit Sustainable Surf and its Waste to Waves program, which focuses on recycling Styrofoam packaging. You can donate your old sails too.
$195 at Mafia Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Photograph: Troubadour Best Sling Bag Troubadour Sling Compact The Troubadour Sling Compact is made from recycled polyester and plastic bottles. It's small but mighty, fitting a bulky wallet, phone, chapstick, and keys. If I switched to a slim card wallet instead, I could even carry around my Beats over-ear headphones.
It's broken up into two compartments, the larger main one and a smaller front pocket with a key clip and a small spot to hold something about the size of an AirPods case. The brand has a slightly larger version available, as well as a vegan leather one (both $95). All have a magnetic quick-release button if you can't slip it over your head (it shouldn't open until you're actually trying to).
★ More From Troubadour: The newest Orbis Collection is a fully circular line of bags. They're not just made from recycled materials, but they're meant to be recycled again and again. Although we haven't tried it, we've used a bunch of this brand's lineup now—including several backpacks and totes—and all are well made and sophisticated-looking. We're confident the line is worth buying if they're in your price range.
$85 at Troubadour Photograph: Moment Best Tote Moment MTW Tote This is our favorite traditional tote, and its exterior is made of weatherproof recycled nylon. WIRED reviewer Jaina Grey says it distributes weight like magic and has pockets on top of pockets to keep you organized, including a slot for a 16-inch laptop. We also like Moment's MTW Backpack, which you can read more about in our Best Camera Bags guide.
$110 at B&H Photo $120 at Moment Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Photograph: Cuyana Best Purse Cuyana Oversized Recycled Sling Bag Cuyana makes our favorite laptop purse.
 This one, while more understated and casual, is just as gorgeous. The fabric of this sling bag is made from 100 percent recycled plastic taken from landfills. It has a durable, canvas-like feel and can be machine-washed in a mesh bag (but air it dry!) so you can actually get real use out of it without worry.
A bottom insert keeps it structured, and this large size fits more than you'll need—I used it as my personal item on a vacation and stuffed it full with a book, a tablet, over-ear headphones, medications, and every little tchotchke I could find to bring back. If you want to use it for work, or just need more organization, it can be paired with Cuyana's tote insert.
★ More Sizes: We used the oversized bag, but there are medium and small versions too. They all come in black or in a stunning cappuccino body with a black strap combo that I've been eyeing.
$198 at Cuyana Photograph: Timbuk2 A Mini Backpack Timbuk2 Spark Mini Pack Timbuk2's Spark Mini, especially in its Eco Nautical Pop colorway, looks like it stepped right out of a late ’80s, early ’90s mood board. It's a reminder that backpacks can be fun, but still functional, and it's made from 100 percent recycled nylon and polyester.
Despite being small, the main compartment fits my 13-inch MacBook Pro. A smaller pocket is best for tablets or Kindles. The faux-fur-lined front pocket has ample room for a phone and wallet, plus there's a cord for your keys. You can unclip the straps and stow them in the back magnetic closure pocket and hold it like a tote. The Spark comes in an even smaller version too.
$69 at Timbuk2 Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Photograph: Lojel A Cheaper Sling We Like Lojel Niru City Sling Lojel's Niru line of bags, including this City Sling, is made from 100 percent recycled nylon with full-grain leather accents. The packaging is compostable too. The sling is nearly weightless, and snaps on the corners can flatten it out or expand it as needed. I could fit both my large wallet and Beats in this one, unlike with the smaller Troubadour above. The strap has a slinky feel that I like.
The main compartment has three smaller pockets on the inside and a key holder strap. There's a smaller zip pocket on the back, too, that fits an iPhone with room to spare.
★ More From Lojel: I also tried the 3-Way Tote ($55) , Daypack ($125) , and Daypack Mini ($100).
 They're all made of the same recycled materials. The backpacks only have a side entry to the main compartment, rather than a zipper at the top with slip pockets facing the side too. It isn't my favorite design feature, but I got used to it. Like the sling, they have snaps on all four corners so you can expand or compress them.
$65 at Lojel Photograph: Verloop The Cutest Little Purse Verloop Candy Stripe Mini Tote I want everything in mini size, please.
It's clear that everything Verloop sells is beyond adorable, including this tiny little bag made from deadstock yarn. If you don't need to hold too many things, it makes any outfit better. There are two other options: a shoulder bag and a standard-size tote , made from recycled plastic. We recommend the brand's slippers in our recycled clothing guide , too.
$58 at Verloop Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Photograph: Kabir Fernandez/Baggu A Shopping Bag Baggu Standard Reusable Bag We love Baggu's standard reusable bags for shopping trips, and they're made with 40 percent recycled nylon. Each bag can hold up to 50 pounds and replaces two to three plastic grocery bags. They're also cute, available in several colors and patterns, and fold down into little squares so you can keep a few in your car.
$30 at Amazon (3-Pack) $14 at Baggu Photograph: Freitag A Roll-Top Crossbody Freitag F640 Rollin Freitag's F640 has long been one of our favorites. All of its bags are made using old truck tarps, but this one includes recycled plastic bottles to make the bag softer and lighter. Being made of heavy-duty tarp means the bag can take some wear, so if the price scares you, know you probably won't need a new one for a while, if ever. There's a fantastic number of color combinations to choose from too.
You should know, however, that truck tarps have a polyvinyl chloride (PVC) coating, and reusing them doesn't strip the coating away. There's a reason most companies proudly advertise " PVC-free " these days—the material is environmentally damaging and is not safe for children. It's why Freitag says “don't chew, don't suck, don't eat” and specifies that the bag is unsuitable for children under the age of three.
$260 at Freitag Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Photograph: Longchamp Another Purse We Love Longchamp Le Pliage Green Shoulder Bag I love a good purse for when I need to dress up, and I love that Longchamp's designer bags don't look gaudy or ostentatious. This one is made from recycled polyamide canvas , derived from fishing nets and old carpets. It's pretty but durable, and while it doesn't have a laptop pocket, it can hold one comfortably. If you're bringing it as a backup bag on a trip, it folds down to a teeny little rectangle (plus the straps).
$155 at Nordstrom $155 at Longchamp Photograph: Targus A Great Budget Backpack Targus Zero Waste EcoSmart Backpack If you need to spend as little as possible, Targus’ Zero Waste Backpack is a solid backpack from a solid brand. It's made from 20 recycled water bottles and comes rolled up in a recycled plastic package. Unfold that plastic and place it in the laptop pocket—that gives the bag structure and provides a little more protection for your expensive tech. It also allows the bag to ship using as little packaging as possible.
In addition to the main compartment, the bag has two pockets on the front and two water bottle pockets. There are also two compression straps to slim it out.
$60 at Targus Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Photograph: Bellroy Another Great Tote Bellroy Tokyo Tote Bellroy's Tokyo Tote is the runner-up in our guide to the Best Laptop Totes and Purses , thanks to its excellent organization—the entire interior perimeter is sectioned off into pockets. The brand uses a few recycled materials , from plastic bottles to leftover nylon scraps from other Bellroy products. It feels quite durable, and the aforementioned pockets can hold a 13-inch laptop, phone, wallet, cables, and a small notebook. “Pop” pockets on either end open up to hold water bottles, a small umbrella, or even flats.
I just liked using it a lot. It helps that the straps have a convenient rubbery grip to keep them from slipping off your shoulder.
$129 at Bellroy Photograph: Lo & Sons A Versatile Bag Lo & Sons Hanover 2 The Hanover 2 saves 22 used plastic bottles per bag from landfills, turning them into water-resistant polyester. WIRED senior associate editor Adrienne So says this was one of the more versatile backpacks she tested, thanks to the detachable insert with four pockets in it, including two water bottle pockets. During the workday, it was an organized backpack, and when she unbuttoned the insert and replaced it with a diaper-changing station , it became instantly parent-friendly. No need to buy yet another bag just for diapers.
$238 at Lo & Sons Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Photograph: Patagonia A Durable Daypack Patagonia Black Hole Backpack This isn't the best-looking backpack, but it's really lightweight and capable. The exterior is made of 100 percent recycled polyester ripstop with a water-resistant laminate on top, and the lining is 100 percent recycled polyester with a polyurethane coating. WIRED senior associate editor Adrienne So used this on a spring break trip and says that even when it was packed full, it stayed slim and unobtrusive. There's a 15-inch suspended laptop sleeve, thoughtfully designed pockets for sunglasses, a wallet, and a phone, plus big enough water bottle pockets to fit an oversized bottle.
 There's also a duffel bag version from Patagonia that she loves.
$149 at REI $149 at Patagonia Photograph: Samsonite More Bags We Like Honorable Mentions Nixon Hatch Bag ($125) : I was shocked at how comfortably this sling bag held my 13-inch laptop without looking ludicrously capacious.
 The black and gray is not the normal style I'd go for, but it's incredibly pretty in the slate blue and brown colorways. It's made of 40 percent Repreve fabric.
Peak Design Everyday Totepack ($180) : The shell of this bag is made from 100 percent recycled 400-denier nylon canvas. It will keep your valuables safe and organized, thanks to the removable dividers inside the main compartment—this setup works particularly well for cameras. It's a bit too structured and rigid for me, but it is beautiful in the bone and brown leather color, and I like that you can hold it like a tote or use it on your back.
Samsonite Outline Pro Carry-On Spinner ($200) : The interior fabric on this carry-on is made from 100 percent recycled plastic bottles. The tough outer shell is polypropylene. The interior divider can be tightly strapped in to compress what's below it, plus there's a “WetPak” pocket for storing damp items.
Solo Re:claim Backpack ($70) : Solo's bag is often less than $60 and is constructed with six recycled plastic bottles. Even the paper tags in the bag are made from recycled materials and are biodegradable too. The company also plants a tree for every bag that's sold. The Re:claim bag fits a 15-inch laptop and is slim and light. The front loop can hold a small umbrella but sits flush against the bag when you aren't using it.
North St LTD Upcycled Davis Daypack ($145) : These cool rolltop bags are made from upcycled event tents, which helps keep them rainproof (and unique!). WIRED senior associate editor Adrienne So said she likes the colors and how low profile it is, but the pockets had very little give, so you won't be able to pack your entire closet for this day trip.
SLNT E3 Convertible Faraday Tote ($220) : We haven't tried this tote, but we used to recommend the brand's Anti-Theft Backpack made in collaboration with Pacsafe. That one is no longer available, but if you want a Faraday bag that blocks signals from coming to and from whatever device is inside—cellular, Wi-Fi, GPS, and Bluetooth—we think this is probably a safe bet. However, most of us don't need that kind of protection on the daily. It's made using 100 percent recycled fiber.
Incase ARC Tech Tote ($90) : This tote is made with recycled polyester. It's compact but still fits a 13-inch laptop in its faux-fur-lined pocket, and there are organizational compartments to fit pens, a phone, a wallet, or earbuds. The handles don't leave much room to hold it comfortably, so I used the removable strap more often. Like the SLNT bag above, it includes a separate zipper pocket that blocks radio frequency identification (RFID). That's nice and all, but not necessary to keep your digital data safe.
Monos Metro Backpack ($220) : This is arguably one of the more sophisticated-looking backpacks in this guide (particularly in the vegan leather option I tried). However, only the felt-lined pockets on the interior are made from recycled bottles. The front pouch can snap on or off, which is handy if you just want to take its contents with you to the bathroom. Or you can buy the folio kit and snap it in its place; the kit can hold cables, Kindles, pens, and other tchotchkes. Just don't forget to snap the pouch or kit on before venturing out—the bag looks odd otherwise.
Writer and Reviewer X Topics Shopping Bags recycling plastic sustainability buying guides Scott Gilbertson Scott Gilbertson Boone Ashworth Reece Rogers Carlton Reid Virginia Heffernan Matt Jancer Matt Jancer WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Black Friday Sale: Up to 40% off Dyson technology + bonus gifts GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Best Buy coupon: Score $300 off select laptops VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
