Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons By Amanda Hoover Culture AI Videos Are Freaky and Weird Now. But Where Are They Headed? ILLUSTRATION: JAMES MARSHALL; GETTY IMAGES Save this story Save Save this story Save The short videos give the impression of a flipbook, jumping shakily from one surreal frame to the next. They’re the result of internet meme-makers playing with the first widely available text-to-video AI generators, and they depict impossible scenarios like Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson eating rocks and French president Emmanuel Macron sifting through and chewing on garbage, or warped versions of the mundane, like Paris Hilton taking a selfie.
This new wave of AI-generated videos has definite echoes of Dall-E , which swept the internet last summer when it performed the same trick with still images. Less than a year later, those wonky Dall-E images are almost indistinguishable from reality, raising two questions: Will AI-generated video advance as quickly, and will it have a place in Hollywood? Digital Culture Jason Parham Courtroom Drama Chris Stokel-Walker Game-changing Will Knight ModelScope , a video generator hosted by AI firm Hugging Face, allows people to type a few words and receive a startling, wonky video in return. Runway, the AI company that cocreated the image generator Stable Diffusion, announced a text-to-video generator in late March, but it has not made it widely available to the public. And Google and Meta both announced they were working on text-to-video tech in fall of 2022.
RIght now, it’s jarring celebrity videos or a teddy bear painting a self-portrait. But in the future, AI’s role in film could evolve beyond the viral meme, allowing tech to help cast movies, model scenes before they’re shot, and even swap actors in and out of scenes. The technology is advancing rapidly, and it will likely take years before such generators could, say, produce an entire short film based on prompts, if they’re ever able to. Still, AI’s potential in entertainment is massive.
“The way Netflix disrupted how and where we watch content, I think AI is going to have an even bigger disruption on the actual creation of that content itself,” says Sinead Bovell, a futurist and founder of tech education company WAYE.
But that doesn’t mean AI will entirely replace writers, directors, and actors anytime soon. And some sizable technical hurdles remain. The videos look jumpy because the AI models can’t yet maintain full coherence from frame to frame, which is needed to smooth the visuals. Making content that lasts longer than a few fascinating, grotesque seconds and keeps its consistency will require more computer power and data, which means big investments in the tech’s development. “You can’t easily scale up these image models,” says Bharath Hariharan, a professor of computer science at Cornell University.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight But, even if they look rudimentary, the progression of these generators is advancing “really, really fast,” says Jiasen Lu, a research scientist at the Allen Institute of Artificial Intelligence, a research organization founded by the late Microsoft cofounder Paul Allen.
The speed of progress is the result of new developments that bolstered the generators. ModelScope is trained on text and image data, like image generators are, and then also fed videos that show the model how movement should look, says Apolinário Passos, a machine-learning art engineer at Hugging Face. It’s the tactic also being used by Meta.
 It removes the burden of annotating videos, or labeling them with text descriptors, which simplifies the process and has ushered in rapid development of the tech.
But this generative video tech is unlikely to cut humans out of the film process. Wonder Dynamics, a company that allows filmmakers to drag and drop computer-generated characters into videos, uses AI to provide a cheaper way for visual effects to make their way into movies. The goal is to add more imaginative characters like aliens and robots to supplement the process and make VFX more accessible, rather than just adding generated humans instead of real people. If movies lose their human touch, the “movie magic” could vanish, says Nikola Todorovic, Wonder Dynamics’ cofounder. “What’s the point of movies if no human is involved in making them?” The success of AI in film will depend on whether it can recreate that magic. Attempts so far have been intriguing but ultimately disappointing, or harmful—a reminder that just because AI can engineer content doesn’t mean it should.
 “ Nothing, Forever ,” a never-ending, streaming AI parody take on Seinfeld , got temporarily banned from Twitch in February after its main character, “Larry Feinberg,” told transphobic jokes. After a clip of Will Smith shoveling spaghetti into his mouth, likely made using ModelScope, went viral last week, it was almost immediately deemed “ demonic ” and “ horrific.
” As Jason Parham wrote for WIRED earlier this week, the AI had turned “fantasy into gross minstrelsy.” Such AI creations can be demeaning, stripping subjects of control of their own image. “They are visceral in their presentation, their distortion a dagger,” Parham writes.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Indeed, there is room for improvement, which some believe is on the horizon. “I do suspect it’s possible to generate content in the future that’s believable and good and can potentially evoke human emotion but is done by AI actors,” says Bovell. She thinks that may happen over the next decade. But even if it’s possible, questions remain about whether or not that is what audiences want. “Society may decide that something about that doesn’t feel right,” she says.
The videos raise other ethical concerns too. Right now, text-to-video clips are largely unbelievable. But as the tech progresses, it could make it easier for anyone to make compelling deepfakes with just a few lines of text. And, like image generators, they could be subject to copyright lawsuits for their use of unowned imagery.
Creating a full movie or show from one generator and a few lines of text is a big lift, but combining different AI tools could make it possible, says Passos. ChatGPT could write a script, a voice generator could read it, video generators could create the visuals, and then all of the pieces could be edited together. “You have these building blocks already,” Passos says. “One model that does it all may be leaps away. But these leaps can come in weeks.” You Might Also Like … 📨 Make the most of chatbots with our AI Unlocked newsletter Taylor Swift, Star Wars, Stranger Things , and Deadpool have one man in common Generative AI is playing a surprising role in Israel-Hamas disinformation The new era of social media looks as bad for privacy as the last one Johnny Cash’s Taylor Swift cover predicts the boring future of AI music Your internet browser does not belong to you 🔌 Charge right into summer with the best travel adapters , power banks , and USB hubs Staff Writer X Topics artificial intelligence machine learning Movies Angela Watercutter Alex Winter Angela Watercutter Angela Watercutter Angela Watercutter Amanda Hoover Kate Knibbs Angela Watercutter Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
