Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Ransomware hackers hit nearly two dozen Texas cities By Patrick Howell O'Neill archive page The Texas State Capitol "Texas Capitol" by The Brit_2 is licensed under CC BY-NC-ND 2.0 In what looks like a highly coordinated cyberattack, approximately 23 cities and government agencies in Texas have been hit by hackers who held the captured computer systems ransom, Texas authorities said this week.
The ransomware incidents are yet another reminder that American cities are ill equipped to defend themselves in cyberspace. A May 2019 study found over 169 instances of ransomware infecting state and local governments since 2013.
Same but different: Dozens of US cities have been hit by ransomware this year. What makes the Texas attacks unique is their size and coordination. State authorities say that one single actor is likely responsible for all the incidents. If true, this is unlike any hacking campaign seen before.
The malware used in the attack was reported to be Sodinokibi, according to ZDNet.
 The creators had become one of the dominant ransomware operations online, reportedly pulling in over $2 billion in payments , before shutting down their operation in June in what the malware creators called “a well-deserved retirement.” StateScoop reported that the malware used in Texas may be the Ryuk ransomware, a strain that’s been found in a host of recent attacks on American cities.
A national problem: In the last five years, it’s become common for American cities to get hit with ransomware. Baltimore was infected this year at a recovery cost of $10 million.
 A small Florida city paid $460,000 in ransom after an infection in June.
The Texas city of Borger is the only one so far to publicly say it was a victim of this latest wave of attacks. The state and other towns are otherwise keeping quiet. A Texas official told NPR he was “ not aware ” of any cities paying the ransom this time around.
Who pays? That May 2019 study of ransomware by the cybersecurity firm Recorded Future found that about 17% of state and local governments attacked end up paying the ransom. That number is actually considerably lower than what other organizations found: a 2019 report from CyberEdge found that 45% of organizations pay ransom, a rise from 38.7% in 2018.
The FBI recommends against paying ransom. And last month, the United States Conference of Mayors passed a resolution against paying such extortionists.
But the fact is that when an organization is hacked and has bad or nonexistent backups, paying ransom becomes an attractive option. The downside is that you are essentially funding the criminal gang behind the operation.
hide by Patrick Howell O'Neill Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos New approaches to the tech talent shortage MIT Technology Review Insights Deep Dive Computing What’s next for the world’s fastest supercomputers Scientists have begun running experiments on Frontier, the world’s first official exascale machine, while facilities worldwide build other machines to join the ranks.
By Sophia Chen archive page AI-powered 6G networks will reshape digital interactions The convergence of AI and communication technologies will create 6G networks that make hyperconnectivity and immersive experiences an everyday reality for consumers.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page The power of green computing Sustainable computing practices have the power to both infuse operational efficiencies and greatly reduce energy consumption, says Jen Huffstetler, chief product sustainability officer at Intel.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page How this Turing Award–winning researcher became a legendary academic advisor Theoretical computer scientist Manuel Blum has guided generations of graduate students into fruitful careers in the field.
By Sheon Han archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
