Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Will Knight Business These ChatGPT Rivals Are Designed to Play With Your Emotions Facebook X Email Save Story Photograph: Annabelle Breakey/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save ChatGPT and its brethren are both surprisingly clever and disappointingly dumb.
 Sure, they can generate pretty poems, solve scientific puzzles, and debug spaghetti code. But we know that they often fabricate, forget, and act like weirdos.
Inflection AI , a company founded by researchers who previously worked on major artificial intelligence projects at Google , OpenAI , and Nvidia , built a bot called Pi that seems to make fewer blunders and be more adept at sociable conversation.
Inflection designed Pi to address some of the problems of today’s chatbots. Programs like ChatGPT use artificial neural networks that try to predict which words should follow a chunk of text, such as an answer to a user’s question. With enough training on billions of lines of text written by humans, backed by high-powered computers, these models are able to come up with coherent and relevant responses that feel like a real conversation. But they also make stuff up and go off the rails.
Mustafa Suleyman, Inflection’s CEO, says the company has carefully curated Pi’s training data to reduce the chance of toxic language creeping into its responses. “We're quite selective about what goes into the model,” he says. “We do take a lot of information that’s available on the open web, but not absolutely everything.” Suleyman, who cofounded the AI company Deepmind, which is now part of Google, also says that limiting the length of Pi’s replies reduces—but does not wholly eliminate—the likelihood of factual errors.
Based on my own time chatting with Pi, the result is engaging, if more limited and less useful than ChatGPT and Bard. Those chatbots became better at answering questions through additional training in which humans assessed the quality of their responses. That feedback is used to steer the bots toward more satisfying responses.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Suleyman says Pi was trained in a similar way, but with an emphasis on being friendly and supportive—though without a human-like personality, which could confuse users about the program’s capabilities. Chatbots that take on a human persona have already proven problematic. Last year, a Google engineer controversially claimed that the company’s AI model LaMDA , one of the first programs to demonstrate how clever and engaging large AI language models could be, might be sentient.
Pi is also able to keep a record of all its conversations with a user, giving it a kind of long-term memory that is missing in ChatGPT and is intended to add consistency to its chats.
“Good conversation is about being responsive to what a person says, asking clarifying questions, being curious, being patient,” says Suleyman. “It’s there to help you think, rather than give you strong directional advice, to help you to unpack your thoughts.” Pi adopts a chatty, caring persona, even if it doesn’t pretend to be human. It often asked how I was doing and frequently offered words of encouragement. Pi’s short responses mean it would also work well as a voice assistant, where long-winded answers and errors are especially jarring. You can try talking with it yourself at Inflection's website.
The incredible hype around ChatGPT and similar tools means that many entrepreneurs are hoping to strike it rich in the field.
Suleyman used to be a manager within the Google team working on the LaMDA chatbot. Google was hesitant to release the technology, to the frustration of some of those working on it who believed it had big commercial potential.
So far, Inflection has raised $225 million in funding from investors that include LinkedIn cofounder Reid Hoffman, and it is reportedly seeking hundreds of millions more. The company hasn’t revealed a plan for making money, but it isn’t hard to imagine one of the deep-pocketed tech companies that doesn’t have its own ChatGPT—Amazon or Apple, say—paying handsomely to acquire the company’s technology and talent.
Inflection is just one of several companies building powerful AI chatbots with a more emotional side.
Character AI , which recently raised $150 million in funding and attained a valuation of over $1 billion, offers chatbots that can assume a wide range of personas—and which, unlike Pi, are free to make things up. Noam Shazeer, Character’s CEO, told me recently that many people use his company’s bots for emotional support, and even romantic connections, although the company blocks sexual content. He says users like to post examples of jokes their bots have come up with on social media.
The advances demonstrated by ChatGPT have many now worried about the long-term risks posed by AI. But if large numbers of people start chatting with friendly, emotionally engaging chatbots, we could see unpredictable results relatively soon. What will happen if companies like Inflection and Character make chatbots more persuasive and potentially addictive to chat with? I’m not sure, but I do know a couple of bots that would be only too happy to talk it over.
You Might Also Like … 📧 Find the best bargains on quality gear with our Deals newsletter “ Someone is using photos of me to talk to men” First-gen social media users have nowhere to go The truth behind the biggest (and dumbest) battery myths We asked a Savile Row tailor to test all the “best” T-shirts you see in social media ads My kid wants to be an influencer.
 Is that bad? 🌞 See if you take a shine to our picks for the best sunglasses and sun protection Senior Writer X Topics Fast Forward voice assistants artificial intelligence ChatGPT machine learning DeepMind Google chatbots Will Knight Amit Katwala Kari McMahon David Gilbert Khari Johnson Joel Khalili Andy Greenberg David Gilbert Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
