Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Mat Honan Gear iOS 7 is Gorgeous, but Could Be Even Better Tavis Coburn Save this story Save Save this story Save The screen in your pocket dominates all the others in your life. It wakes you up in the morning, checks the traffic, and tells you the best way to get to work. It lets you read your email (or play Candy Crush ) during meetings, find a lunch spot, schedule a recording on your DVR, and read the day's news before you doze off at night. That means even tiny changes to mobile operating systems are hugely important. And big ones? Well, if you're one of the hundreds of millions of people out there with an iPhone, check your pocket. Apple's new iOS 7 represents the most substantial change to the iPhone since it started supporting third-party apps. But as dramatic as the update may look, it doesn't go far enough functionally.
iOS 7 is gorgeous. This is where Apple's great design lead, Jony Ive, gets to wow us with a palette of bits instead of atoms, and what he's come up with is wonderful. It fronts an entirely modern look and feel, full of bold colors and stylish typefaces. It's more iconic and less cartoonish: old leatherette flourishes banished in favor of empty space that lets images and data do the talking.
Like the search bar, some settings launch from any home screen.
Like the search bar, some settings launch from any home screen.
Tabs in Safari, Apple’s native web browser, have an entirely new, stacked look in iOS 7.
Tabs in Safari, Apple’s native web browser, have an entirely new, stacked look in iOS 7.
iOS 7’s so-called flat design doesn’t try to ape the real world like its predecessor.
iOS 7’s so-called flat design doesn’t try to ape the real world like its predecessor.
It's also a more efficient worker. Launching apps is easier, thanks to an ever-accessible search bar: Just swipe down from the top of any home screen, type in a few characters, and you can quickly find and fire up whatever app you're looking for. Notifications are better too. They're easier to see and, more important, easier to dismiss. New features like predictive directions, which tell you how long it will take to get to a commonly visited destination, are truly great. Siri is maturing as well; instead of just performing system tasks, Apple's voice-activated assistant can now lend a hand inside third-party apps (as long as the devs write in the functionality).
Each of these little tweaks and changes and user-interface decisions becomes massive, because they're so widely distributed. Remember: Almost any action you can perform on your phone is also being performed by hundreds of millions of other users across the globe. The fractional seconds it takes you to accomplish a routine task will be amplified into many millions of man-hours over the course of the operating system's lifetime. So every choice Apple makes to increase efficiency plays out in productivity cycles like concentric tsunamis on our collective pond.
That's why iOS 7 is one of the most dramatic technology shifts we will see this decade; it just affects so many people. Unlike Android, which is fragmented across a multitude of gadgets, almost everyone with an iDevice will soon be running this reimagined operating system. That's around half a billion people on tablets, smartphones, and music players, doing everything from checking in on Facebook to running small businesses.
Apple has one hell of a responsibility. If it changes too much, it could alienate a large nation's worth of users. Even so, it's clear that iOS 7 could—in fact, should—have gone even further.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe The design of iOS 7 has been called evocative of Windows Phone and Android's latest iteration, Jelly Bean. I wish it had gone beyond evoking and directly stolen something that both of those platforms do very well: predictive and pervasive information delivery. Yes, there are flourishes of this (those predictive directions), but overall iOS 7 still makes you go looking for information instead of displaying it before you think to ask.
Consider what you use your phone for. Apps, mostly, right? And beyond just using the apps, you're getting information into and out of them. You send and receive photos through email and social networks; you search for a place to eat, pop its address into a navigation app, and get directions. The future of iOS 7 is directly linked to these actions—and to how developers can use the information they generate. Aspects of the OS like Notification Center and Siri—which allow you to interact with a program without actually launching it—are the best examples of this information flow in Apple's new mobile world. But they're still incredibly limited: Text messages pop up and make you swap apps to reply, appointments made in apps like Urbanspoon aren't auto-added to the calendar—that kind of thing. It's not very advanced, especially when you look at Apple's rivals.
A phone isn't like your desktop computer — you don't sit there with it open.
If Apple wanted to make iOS 7 more than just a visual step forward, it should have changed the way we think about information delivery even more than its competitors have. Given Apple's deep control over everything that happens in its ecosystem, and the fact that it always knows where the phone is, the company could have done a lot more to make sure the information you need shows up on your handset without your asking for it. These are the kinds of innovations we're seeing with Google Now, a you-don't-even-have-to-search tool that can, say, dive into your email and display things like flight times and dinner reservations that aren't even on your calendar or show you all the nearby restaurants at lunchtime without being prompted.
On Motorola's new Moto X, you can access this information without even touching the phone. Whether it's in your pocket or across the room, saying the words "OK Google Now" will muster the full might of Mountain View's servers. Imagine what Apple could have pulled off if it had focused on information rather than applications.
A phone isn't like a desktop computer — you don't sit there with it open, staring at it, opening and closing windows. You pluck it from your pocket, unlock it, fire up an app, maybe toggle to another one, and then put it back again. That screen in your pocket may be the one you use the most, but it's a shower, not a bathtub. You're in and out; you're not soaking. The new interactions on iOS 7 are great, but what we really need is something so good at serving up information that we barely need to interact with it at all.
Senior Staff Writer Topics apple ios magazine magazine-21.10 Julian Chokkattu Julian Chokkattu Justin Pot David Nield Julian Chokkattu Justin Pot Brenda Stolyar Boone Ashworth WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
