Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Mat Honan Gear Google's New Tools Show How Deep Glass Will Embed in Our Lives Google's Timothy Jordan shows off Glass performing an on-the-fly translation of a street sign.
Photo: Ariel Zambelich/WIRED Save this story Save Save this story Save The promise of wearable computers is that the devices themselves will go away. They'll melt into the background to deliver data as needed, all without your having to fetch or look anything up. Google announced a few new features to its Glass software developers kit on Tuesday that help its face computer both be there and go away. With a few simple third-party apps, the company showed (probably better than ever before) just how Glass will evolve into something that's invisibly integrated into your day-to-day routine.
Glass' new GDK -- or Glassware development kit -- makes it easier for application developers to tap into the hardware, even when its offline, to perform tasks in real-time without having to go back and forth to servers in the cloud. It opens new possibilities for developers to build tools that center around either immersive or ongoing tasks (as opposed to, say, simply notifications about things like new email, or the ability to upload a photo and share it online).
Immersive tasks will let you dive into an application on Glass, much as you might on a smartphone, giving it your undivided attention -- think gaming, for example. An ongoing task is one where you're swapping back and forth between the app and something you're doing -- think cooking. Google showed a few new apps from Strava, AllTheCooks, GolfSight, Word Lens, and Spellista meant to demonstrate how developers can now use Glass to deliver immersive experiences, or enhance ongoing ones.
Spellista and Word Lens were immersive apps. The former is a simple letter jumble game and honestly it was ho-hum. Word Lens, however, was pretty amazing. It fires up with a simple voice command, "Okay, Glass, translate this." Then you can look at a sign written in a foreign language, and the app will automatically translate the text and overlay it on the display. This happens nearly instantly. It was straight out of the future. But the ongoing tasks were probably even more interesting than the immersive ones.
Take the new Strava app for Glass. Strava, a tool for tracking bike rides or runs, is immensely popular with cyclists and gaining ground with runners. But it's the type of app that clearly benefits from not having to pull a phone from a pocket or bag to get an update -- you don't want to have to pluck it from a pocket while you're in the bike lane on Market Street. The Glass app lets it deliver real-time updates on speed and distance, and deliver ride segment reports simply by letting you look up. It promises to help you be more situationally aware, more in the moment, while still getting data delivered when you want it. Similarly, GolfSight can let you know where you are on a golf course, how far you are from the green, and what hazards are between you and it without having to dive into a phone.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Strava showed members of the press a new Glass App.
Photo: Ariel Zambelich/WIRED Or take AllTheCooks, which lets you view or record recipes using Glass. One of the other promises Glass has, so far, truly failed to deliver on is the ability to do something else with your hands while still getting data updates from the device. There's been much speculation how Glass may one day be used in the operating room. But AllTheCooks shows how remarkably useful it can be in the kitchen. You can simply play the steps back without taking your attention away from what you're doing. You don't have to worry about greasy fingers on a tablet, or printed page. Meanwhile, filming step-by-step instructions without using your hands promises to be something that all manner of apps will be able to take advantage of.
When people have asked me about Glass, I've often tried to explain it by saying, "it's Google Now for your face," (a phrase I stole from Metafilter founder Matt Haughey). That's because the Google Now functions -- delivering information to you before you ask for it -- have been its killer feature, even more than the ability to take photos or videos. The way it can drop an announcement on you based on where and when you are is amazing. But previously I haven't seen third party applications tap into that same functionality. Instead, you get things like breaking news alerts from the New York Times , or notifications about @ replies on Twitter. That's clearly changing now.
There's been a huge over-emphasis on what Glass is (aesthetically ugly, of limited utility, socially awkward) rather than what it will be. Today, we got a glimpse of the path it's heading on -- maybe our best yet. What's coming is a more technologically robust device that will enhance our situational and possibly even social awareness. And just think, one day it might even be stylish enough to wear in public.
Senior Staff Writer Topics Google Wearables Justin Pot Boone Ashworth Julian Chokkattu Julian Chokkattu Simon Hill Boone Ashworth Julian Chokkattu Simon Hill WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Black Friday Sale: Up to 40% off Dyson technology + bonus gifts GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Best Buy coupon: Score $300 off select laptops VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
