Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Chris Snyder Business 'Google-killer' Cuil's Market Share Not So Hot Save this story Save Save this story Save Cuil , a ridiculously hyped search engine that launched this past July, is now worth next to nothing in market share at around 0.01 percent, according to data released by Net Applications.
The site, founded by former Google employees, was widely dubbed a “Google-killer” (claiming it had the world’s largest search index at around 120 billion pages) and boasting more relevant results.
But Cuil started melting into nothing pretty fast, drawing criticism almost immediately after launch. There was an initial server crash, complaints over the accuracy of search results, rumors that its crawlers were killing some websites , and just recently its VP of product, Louis Monier, jumped ship.
 Before launch, investors valued the property at a whopping $200 million, according to a recent report from VentureBeat.
A new blog post on Cuil’s site offers little information about the future of the company, but they do say that they’re “taking a deep breath” and putting their “heads back down to work hard.” Cuil frozen out: market share drops to next to nothing [IT Pro] Chart: Net Applications Topics Google Search David Gilbert Vittoria Elliott Will Knight Christopher Beam Amanda Hoover David Gilbert Caitlin Harrington Susan D'Agostino Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
