Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Will Knight Business Let the AI Coding Wars Begin! Photograph: A. Martin UW Photography/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save The big news this week was a call from tech luminaries to pause development and deployment of AI models more advanced than OpenAI’s GTP-4 —the stunningly capable language algorithm behind ChatGPT —until risks including job displacement and misinformation can be better understood.
Even if OpenAI , Google , Microsoft , and other tech heavyweights were to stop what they’re doing—and they’re not going to stop what they’re doing—the AI models that have already been developed are likely to have profound impacts, especially in software development.
It might not look like a regular business deal, but Alphabet’s agreement to supply AI to Replit , a web-based coding tool with over 20 million users, is something of a seismic shift. Replit will use Google’s AI models, along with others, in Ghostwriter , a tool that recommends code and answers code-related questions in a manner similar to ChatGPT. Amjad Masad, Replit’s CEO, tells me that Google has “super cool technology” and that his company can get it into the hands of developers. Through this partnership, Google will also make Replit available to users of Google Cloud , helping it reach more business customers.
The move is particularly significant because Alphabet is squaring up to Microsoft and GitHub , which are likewise using AI to assist coders with Copilot, an add-on for Visual Studio.
 The same AI that makes ChatGPT seem so clever works on computer languages. When you start typing code, tools like Copilot will suggest a way to complete it.
Alphabet’s move also signals what could be the next big battleground for large tech companies. While so much attention is being paid to ChatGPT parlor tricks and Midjourey 5 versions of Donald Trump , the bigger story is about which company can offer developers the best AI tools—and the new software that developers will build with that AI by their side.
Research from Microsoft suggests that developers can perform tasks over 50 percent faster when using an AI assistant. Companies that offer cutting-edge AI can draw developers to their coding tools and get those users hooked on their clouds and other stuff.
Amazon has developed an AI coding tool called Code Whisperer, and Meta is working on one for internal use too. Presumably, Apple will not want to be left behind.
As well as helping developers write code, AI is starting to change the way code is put together. Last week, OpenAI announced that the first plugins for ChatGPT have been created.
 They will make it possible for the bot to perform tasks like searching for flights, booking restaurants, and ordering groceries. Incorporating AI into code can also accelerate software development. This week Masad of Replit shared a neat example— an app that will turn voice commands into working websites.
 “We think a lot of software projects will start that way in future,” Masad says.
With things moving so quickly, it’s worth considering what the consequences of rapidly incorporating AI into software development might be.
AI tools can reproduce vulnerabilities in the code they suggest that developers may not notice or might be unable to spot. Perhaps developers will become more complacent, or see their skills atrophy, if they rely too heavily on AI. And what kind of “ technical debt ” might emerge if programmers need to go back and fix software that no human has ever closely examined? It may not be long before we find out.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight You Might Also Like … 📩 Get the long view on tech with Steven Levy's Plaintext newsletter Watch this guy work, and you’ll finally understand the TikTok era How Telegram became a terrifying weapon in the Israel-Hamas War Inside Elon Musk’s first election crisis —a day after he “freed” the bird The ultra-efficient farm of the future is in the sky The best pickleball paddles for beginners and pros 🌲 Our Gear team has branched out with a new guide to the best sleeping pads and fresh picks for the best coolers and binoculars Senior Writer X Topics Fast Forward Will Knight Khari Johnson Amit Katwala Kari McMahon Andy Greenberg David Gilbert Andy Greenberg Joel Khalili Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
