Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Will Knight Business Workers Are Worried About Their Bosses Embracing AI Photograph: Westend61/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save The Pew Research Center, a nonpartisan think tank that tracks public opinion, released a report today on how workers feel about AI.
The technology has become an increasingly common workplace fixture over the past few years. And its role is likely to grow as AI becomes more capable, thanks to advances such as the large language models, like GPT-4 , that gave us ChatGPT and a growing number of other tools.
While there’s no shortage of reports about people’s attitudes toward AI, Pew’s data is sizable and relatively fresh, drawing from 11,004 US adults who were consulted between December 12 and 18 of last year—just as ChatGPT mania was taking hold after its release at the end of November.
The report suggests that most workers expect AI to transform hiring, firing, and evaluations. Many people report feeling uncertain about what those changes might look like, and concerned about AI’s potential impacts.
Some 68 percent of those polled said they expect AI to have a major impact on jobholders over the next 20 years. Curiously though, only 28 percent said they thought AI would affect them personally, while 38 percent were unsure what the outcome might be for their own work.
Those responses reflect the fact that nobody really knows how AI will change jobs and work in the coming years. The technology is evolving quickly, and its impact often differs greatly between industries and even roles.
We can, however, expect existing uses of the technology to expand and become more sophisticated. Some employers already use AI to help screen job applicants, while enterprising job hunters seek to outwit the algorithms with clever tricks. In theory, AI technology has the potential to make hiring fairer and increase workplace diversity.
 But in practice it has sometimes done the opposite, leading the US government to warn employers about the potential for algorithms to discriminate against people with disabilities.
The Pew survey reflects this contradictory picture, with 47 percent of people saying they think AI would do a better job than a human in hiring but 41 percent opposing the use of AI in hiring.
Culture The Future of Game Accessibility Is Surprisingly Simple Geoffrey Bunting Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Business Elon Musk May Have Just Signed X’s Death Warrant Vittoria Elliott Business OpenAI Ousts CEO Sam Altman Will Knight Workplace surveillance is an area of general concern with 81 percent of those polled saying that more use of AI will lead to workers feeling inappropriately watched.
Courtesy of Pew Research Center As WIRED has previously reported, many workers now have to work under the supervision of AI-powered surveillance systems that monitor productivity and flag misbehavior. Some truck drivers and warehouse staff are monitored by cameras and algorithms , and a rising number of office workers have their keystrokes and mouse clicks logged and analyzed.
 This kind of data collection is generally intended to improve productivity, but it can be dehumanizing and demoralizing and push employees into working too hard or taking unnecessary risks, like driving trucks too fast.
Fear and doubt about AI’s role in workplaces is understandable because we are at something of a crossroads. Some economists argue that the designers of AI systems need to think about how their products will affect workers and aim to enhance their output rather than replace them. Similarly, employers can do more to ensure that the tools they use to track workers do not cause undue harm.
So far, the companies developing these AI tools and the employers that use them have not risen to the moment, often placing workers at the mercy of systems whose benefits are in question. It’s time to stop and think about how workplace AI is used, a need that will only grow more pressing as the technology advances.
You Might Also Like … 📩 Get the long view on tech with Steven Levy's Plaintext newsletter Watch this guy work, and you’ll finally understand the TikTok era How Telegram became a terrifying weapon in the Israel-Hamas War Inside Elon Musk’s first election crisis —a day after he “freed” the bird The ultra-efficient farm of the future is in the sky The best pickleball paddles for beginners and pros 🌲 Our Gear team has branched out with a new guide to the best sleeping pads and fresh picks for the best coolers and binoculars Senior Writer X Topics Fast Forward artificial intelligence Jobs algorithms diversity machine learning workers Work employees ChatGPT Khari Johnson Khari Johnson Khari Johnson Will Knight Amanda Hoover Steven Levy Khari Johnson Vittoria Elliott Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
