Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB in Conversation – Handling Greater Demands in the Data Center with Kamran Ziaee, Verizon Handling Greater Demands in the Data Center with Kamran Ziaee, Verizon Kamran Ziaee, SVP, Technology Strategy & Global Infrastructure at Verizon sits down with VB Editor-in-Chief Matt Marshall to discuss how data centers now must handle greater and greater demands. While high-performance computing used to be reserved for exceptionally data-intensive applications, like gene sequencing or self-driving cars, every industry is seeing real use cases for adopting HPC. Verizon is an example of a company that says HPC is now table stakes for many applications it runs in its data centers. While Verizon has consolidated down to three data centers from nine, it has also invested in multi-access edge computing (MEC) to ensure rapid response time for customers. We explore his unique approach to an optimized hybrid cloud, where many critical applications stay on-prem and highly elastic applications migrate to the public cloud to enjoy performance gains there. We touch on the Gen AI craze and the proof of concepts the company is running, which also point to a hybrid future.
This video is part of our VB in Conversation series.
View all videos here.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
