Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages 90% of Gen Z now using apps with interactive live video Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
90% of Gen Z is now using apps with interactive live video according to a new study by Agora , which polled over 1,000 Gen Z U.S. consumers on their use of “real-time engagement” — commonly referred to as RTE — technology over the last year.
RTE refers to digital experiences that are interactive, collaborative and shared, through live video, live audio and extended reality (AR or VR). For example, students in an education app want to see classmates; users in a dating app want to see potential partners, and buyers in a shopping app want to talk to sellers.
Whether it be Twitch or TikTok , Agora’s study found that Gen Z are increasingly relying on RTE video or audio features in the apps they use. In fact, 87% are using more apps with built-in interactive live video streaming or calling. Meanwhile, 62% have tried apps with interactive live audio streaming, capturing the growing popularity of services like Twitter Spaces and Clubhouse.
Agora also found RTE technology was more important for certain categories of apps. When asked if interactive video or audio were important for their gaming apps, for example, 69% — more than two-thirds — agreed. Beyond gaming, Gen Z wants RTE integrated into their ecommerce and retail apps. Seventy percent said they would prefer retailers to offer AR and VR so that they can test and try products at home before buying.
This survey was conducted by developer platform Agora in August, 2021 and included over 1,000 Gen Z respondents in the U.S. The findings were released ahead of real-time engagement and developer conference RTE2021.
Read the full report by Agora.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
