Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Web3 ecosystem lost $3.9 billion to crypto fraud in 2022 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Bitcoin lost more than 60% of its value in 2022.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
New technologies create new risks. Ever since cryptocurrency rose to prominence after the release of Bitcoin in 2008, cybercriminals have been looking for ways to separate users from their hard-earned money. Now as the Web3 ecosystem grows, fraud is becoming an even bigger threat.
Today, Web3 bug bounty provider Immunefi released new research calculating that $3,948,856,037 in crypto funds was lost across the Web3 ecosystem to hacks and scams in 2022. The report also found the two most targeted blockchains last year were BNB Chain and Ethereum , with 65 and 49 unique security incidents each.
The good news is that while crypto fraud across the space remains common, the overall losses decreased 51.2% from the 2021 total of $8,088,338,239.
In any case, this latest research highlights that organizations interacting with the Web3 ecosystem need to implement a highly-developed security strategy to address these new threats, or they risk leaving their data exposed.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Web3 and the risk of ‘novelty’ attacks The report comes as researchers anticipate the Web3 market will grow from $3.2 billion in 2021 to $81.5 billion in 2030, increasing at a compound annual growth rate of 43.7%.
Inevitably, as the value of this market increases, more and more cybercriminals will innovate new scams and threats to try and capitalize on its popularity and steal users’ funds. This raises novel challenges, as the nature of these attacks in digital spaces will be unlike those faced in the traditional Web2 sphere.
“Web3 is still a brand new world, full of unknown paths,” said Mitchell Amador, founder and CEO at Immunefi. “That novelty, by definition, brings about a level of inexperience and danger to the game. Furthermore, due to the very nature of the Web3 ecosystem, where smart contract code holds huge amounts of capital, the environment is far more adversarial compared to traditional Web2 applications.” Users who are just finding their feet and experimenting with Web3 solutions are also vulnerable to emerging scams.
“In Web3, users are still adjusting to the technology and many barely even know how to properly use wallets and sign for transactions,” Amador said. “With all the new projects and technology coming out by the week, it’s no surprise that bad actors are able to exploit the inexperience and naivety of new users.” As a result, Amador recommends that CISOs and security leaders interacting with these technologies invest in security education — not just on phishing threats, but also how to use infrastructure like wallets, private keys and common DeFi applications.
Going forward, leaders and researchers in the space have a critical role to play in supporting users and keeping them up to speed on the techniques scammers are using to steal their data.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
