Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 49% of C-suite execs believe COVID-19 had the largest impact on their business Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
The results from a recent report from West Monroe revealed that 49% of C-suite executives believe the COVID-19 pandemic has had the largest impact on their businesses — with the related Great Resignation and labor shortages coming in at a close second — indicating that other issues in 2021 garnered less attention from execs.
This past year taught everyone that the world is still constantly evolving.
The C-suite responded to the changing business landscape by tackling problems that were unexpected even just a year ago.
The Delta variant and COVID-19 had the largest impact on business in 2021 according to the execs polled. Another 15% felt the pandemic’s effect on employees had the largest impact on their organization. West Coast respondents felt the pandemic’s effect on employees the most (18%), while the Midwest region was the least fazed, with just 9% citing it as having the largest impact on business.
Above: According to C-Suite Executives surveyed in Q4 by West Monroe, the pandemic and its related effects had the largest impact on business in 2021, while everything else was forced to take a backseat.
The Great Resignation, shortages, and scarcities accounted for 18% each. With the job market as hot as ever, employees began leaving their companies en masse. Execs were forced to get creative and test out new strategies to hire and retain the best talent. Increasing salary, location flexibility, and contingent talent were the top approaches, according to the respondents. Unsurprisingly, CFOs were the most concerned execs about shortages and scarcities (24%), followed by 22% of COOs.
All of this meant less time for executives to focus on other pressing business issues, including investing in tech (4%), cyberattacks (3%), availability of the vaccine (3%), and ESG trends/activism, which wasn’t at all a large concern to the C-suite compared to other business issues in Q4.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The report is based on survey results from 150 C-level executives with companies of at least $250 million in annual revenue, collected between September 17 to September 21, 2021.
Read the full report by West Monroe.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
