Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Aircall raises $65 million to grow its cloud-based contact center platform Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Aircall Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Aircall , a cloud-based contact center platform for businesses, has raised $65 million in a series C round of funding led by DTCP. The raise comes as companies are forced to adopt remote-working practices due to the COVID-19 crisis.
Founded in Paris in 2014, Aircall allows companies of all sizes to launch a local call center presence wherever their customers are based, enabling them to offer localized telephone numbers, toll free numbers, call routing, automated interactive voice responses (IVR) that direct callers to the right department, call queuing, and more. The Aircall platform also serves up analytics, showing metrics such as missed call rates and average wait times. Other notable features include call commenting and assignment, which allows team members to assign calls to a colleague, with notes and comments to provide additional context.
Above: Aircall While distributed workforces and work from home setups were already growing in popularity, the pandemic has accelerated this trend. Major companies — including Facebook and Twitter — have confirmed that their employees will be able to work from home indefinitely. We’ve also seen a spike in investments in tools that enable this transition from physical to virtual environments, including platforms that facilitate online events , services that allow local pizzerias to sell online , and software that makes it easier for stores of all shapes and sizes to embrace ecommerce.
Aircall is very much part of this trend, as it enables customer service agents to accept and route calls, follow up with potential prospects, and collaborate with colleagues — regardless of where they are in the world. The startup had previously raised $40 million, and with another $65 million in the bank it plans to fund global expansion efforts, including adding 100 new hires with a focus on engineering.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
