Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Tableau gains new big data analytics features Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Salesforce today debuted new features in Tableau , including data and analytics platform capabilities available with new enterprise subscription plans. Key enhancements and improvements focus on managing data and enabling scalable data governance, as well as ensuring that analytics adapts with changing demand.
“Tableau has long been a favorite to help individuals see and understand data,” Francois Ajenstat, chief product officer at Tableau, said. “We’re making it easier for IT leaders to make it a favorite across the entire enterprise and deliver an end-to-end solution to leverage the full power of data analytics.” Big data analytics The pandemic has underscored the need to increase data self-sufficiency. According to McKinsey , 92% of companies are failing to scale analytics. And new data from MuleSoft and Coleman Parkes Research found that 87% of IT and business leaders are concerned that security and governance are slowing the pace of innovation.
Among the features heading to the latest version of Tableau (2021.3) are revamped data prep tools, which make it easier for customers to reduce loads and server costs automatically while mapping out data trends. New governance features alert users of potential issues and provide visibility into the type of data they have, and where it came from. And enhanced management controls let admins centrally configure which users and groups have access to which slices of data.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! A new enterprise reference architecture, Enterprise Deployment Guidelines, provides customers with an approach to achieve basic availability, scalability, and security requirements. Meanwhile, dynamic scaling and resource management — which are also new — helps enterprises define limits on resources for their deployments, ensuring that enough software containers are available during peak-demand times and scale down during low demand.
Doug Henschen, VP and principal analyst at Constellation Research, said, “IT leaders are facing unprecedented challenges today, and the pandemic has underscored the need to increase data self-sufficiency and empower everyone to do more with data. It’s no longer a luxury for businesses to have a data analytics platform, it’s a necessity that could make the difference between surviving and thriving.” The new features arrive after Tableau added improved AI and analytics capabilities, including an input experience designed to guide users on how to ask questions of data. Earlier in the year, Tableau gained an Einstein Discovery module, which uses machine learning algorithms to surface patterns in data.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
