Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Cloud contact center Talkdesk raises $143 million at a $3 billion valuation Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Talkdesk Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Talkdesk , a company that provides cloud-based contact center software for enterprises, has raised $143 million in a series C round of funding, taking the company’s valuation to more than $3 billion.
Founded out of Portugal in 2011, Talkdesk — which is now headquartered in San Francisco — is one of a number of companies striving to replace legacy contact center systems with an end-to-end cloud platform for accepting, managing, and routing customer service calls, with support for SMS, live chat, email, and social networks. It comes with additional tools and services, such as virtual customer service agents and analytics. Talkdesk claims a number of big-name clients, including IBM, Dropbox, and Peloton.
The cloud-based contact center market was valued at around $13 billion in 2019, a figure that is expected to reach roughly $50 billion by 2025. However, the market could be gearing up for even greater growth as more customer service teams work remotely due to the pandemic. This trend hasn’t been lost on investors — in the past two months alone, Talkdesk’s Paris-based rival Aircall raised $65 million , followed by Ujet, which locked down $55 million from Alphabet’s GV and other big names.
Prior to now, Talkdesk had raised around $125 million in funding. With a fresh $143 million — from investors including Franklin Templeton, Willoughby Capital, Skip Capital, and Lead Edge Capital — the company said it’s well-financed to capitalize on its recent momentum and expand globally while investing in R&D, sales, and marketing.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
