Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Zoom’s surging free user base dents margins as cloud costs rise Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
( Reuters ) — Zoom warned on Monday that its gross margins would remain under pressure going into 2021 as the surging number of free users of its video conferencing service makes it hard to offset a spike in costs to maintain its growth.
Shares of the company, which have risen about sevenfold this year, fueled by the meteoric rise in demand for video conferencing for work, school, and socializing due to the COVID-19 pandemic, fell 5% after the bell, despite upbeat fourth-quarter forecasts.
Zoom operates some of its own datacenters, but it also relies on cloud computing services from outside vendors such as Amazon and Oracle, meaning it must bear costs for free users.
Those bills, driven in part by a jump in free users in the third quarter as millions of students and teachers started new school semesters, pushed Zoom’s gross profit margins down to 66.7%, below analysts’ estimates of 72.1% and its pre-pandemic average of around 80%.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “We expect gross margins to be consistent with Q3 into the next fiscal year before starting to improve toward our long-term target margin,” chief financial officer Kelly Steckelberg said.
Zoom said it had 433,700 customers with more than 10 employees, a 485% increase from the year before but only a 17% increase from the fiscal second quarter, compared to the 40% growth rate between the company’s first and second quarters.
Slower sales to corporate customers could mean Zoom is losing out to established tech giants, Rosenblatt Securities analyst Ryan Koontz said.
“Cisco and Microsoft are very entrenched in the larger enterprise segment, so Zoom has a much harder job selling against them than they do in the small business space, which is largely unpenetrated,” he said.
Zoom still forecast fourth-quarter revenue of between $806 million and $811 million, above estimates of $730.1 million, according to Refinitiv data.
The company forecast adjusted earnings of 77 cents to 79 cents per share, compared to estimates of 66 cents.
Revenue for the third quarter ended October 31 surged 367% to $777.2 million, beating analysts’ average estimate of about $694 million.
( Reporting by Uday Sampath in Bengaluru and Stephen Nellis in San Francisco. Editing by Tom Brown and Sriraj Kalluvila.
) VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
