Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Why retailers should embrace the omnichannel Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn This sponsored post is produced by SPS Commerce.
Retail is at a reset moment thanks to the disruption that the Internet, mobile phones, and social media are all bringing to the shopping experience. It means the entire supply chain — retailers, suppliers, and third-party logistics providers (3PLs) — has to become more efficient, competitive, and knowledgeable to be able attract and keep customers.
It’s what is called the omnichannel, and it’s changing everything about shopping.
The omnichannel covers the experience shoppers have with retailers through two or more ways — online, in the store, customer service, and even shipping. People expect to have the same experience in a store as they do when shopping online. Here’s how you make it happen.
Today’s online retailers can offer anything and everything a supplier has available — different sizes, different colors, different specs. This is the Endless Aisle.
 When a shopper shows up at the retailer’s store in person, they still expect to see anything and everything they’re looking for, only to find the store has neither their size or their favorite color.
This is giving retailers pause for concern. In our recent Retail Insight Benchmark Report , 63 percent of retail professionals surveyed said that inventory availability was one of their top three business challenges.
Interested in hearing from industry experts and retail organizations excelling in the omnichannel? Register now to attend SPS Omnichannel 2014 this May.
Thanks to the transparency and ease of online shopping, customers are also expecting competitive pricing, easy-to-find product information, and as much product data and information as the retailers can provide.
 This level of information expectation is also reaching into the stores, as shoppers expect associates to have that level of information at hand as easily as the shopper can find it online.
Despite the perceived problems some retailers and suppliers (and even 3PLs) may see with the omnichannel, this can ultimately be great news for everyone involved. The first retailers who can provide a differentiation and a full omnichannel experience to their shoppers will be able to turn their customers into loyal advocates. They’ll become loyal through effective customer service and good information, rather than focusing just on price breaks.
Based on our past experience, research and the findings in the Retail Insight Benchmark Report , we see more than 90 percent of companies are just starting to plot and execute their omnichannel strategies. They’re right at the beginning stages of implementation and are beginning to work with each other to provide shoppers with consistent experiences. But as new technologies and relationships arise, and companies like SPS Commerce continue to innovate and educate in this sector, companies will continue adapting to the customers’ omnichannel expectations.
Sponsored posts are content that has been produced by a company that is either paying for the post or has a business relationship with VentureBeat, and they’re always clearly marked. The content of news stories produced by our editorial team is never influenced by advertisers or sponsors in any way. For more information, contact sales@venturebeat.com.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
