Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Zoom’s planned $14.7B Five9 contact center acquisition is off Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Zoom HQ Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Less than three months after announcing plans to acquire cloud contact center Five9 for a hefty $14.7 billion, Zoom today confirmed the deal is off.
Five9, a publicly traded company, failed to gain enough shareholder support to push the deal forward. But the decision also follows growing scrutiny from U.S. authorities that were looking into Zoom’s ties with China — where the company has a major R&D hub. Founder and CEO Eric Yuan was also born in China, although he is a long-time U.S. resident and citizen. Adding fuel to the fire, U.S House Speaker Nancy Pelosi last year referred to Zoom as a “Chinese entity.” Zoom time Zoom emerged as the default group video chat tool for millions of people globally during the pandemic, but it has also offered a cloud-based business phone system called Zoom Phone since 2019. At its annual Zoomtopia event last month, the company formally announced a cloud contact center product called Zoom Video Engagement Center, which it plans to launch in early 2022.
With a major player like Five9 under its wing, Zoom was hoping to go all in on the enterprise communication vertical to target the $11.5 billion cloud contact center market.
 Now that the deal is off, Zoom’s path forward in the contact center space might be a little rockier. But Yuan insisted the company is still committed to that trajectory and will continue its existing partnerships with the likes of Five9, Genesys, Talkdesk, and Twilio.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “The contact center market remains a strategic priority for Zoom, and we are confident in our ability to capture its growth potential,” Yuan said in a press release. “We are building this new solution with the same scalability and trusted architecture that has made Zoom the platform of choice for businesses around the world.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
