Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages App-testing startup Sauce Labs raises $70 million Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Sauce Labs Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Software testing startup Sauce Labs has raised $70 million in a round of funding from Centerview Capital Technology, IVP, and Adams Street Partners.
Founded out of San Francisco, Sauce Labs has been making software for testing websites since it began in 2008, and it expanded to Android, iOS, and MacOS apps four years later.
 Sauce Labs’ platform offers a cloud-based infrastructure for automated testing, letting developers continuously test their web and mobile apps for bugs as they go along. It works across 800 different browser, operating system, and device combinations. The company counts a number of big-name customers, too, including Salesforce, Lyft, Zendesk, Intuit, Visa, and PayPal.
Sauce Labs had raised around $30 million before today, the last tranche coming via a $15 million round early last year.
 The company plans to use its new cash infusion to expand and extend its offering, improve its capacity and performance, and add to its sales, marketing, and customer relations resources.
“Sauce Labs’ new funding and three new investors speak volumes about what the company has accomplished and the incredible market opportunity that lies in front of us,” said Sauce Labs CEO Charles Ramsey. “With Sauce Labs, our customers test up to ten times faster and no longer have to focus valuable resources on managing test infrastructure. In the new economy — where every business is a software business — this provides our customers with a significant advantage.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
