Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Automated software testing company Tricentis raises $165 million Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Tricentis , a software testing company for enterprises, has raised a whopping $165 million in a series B round from New York-based VC firm Insight Venture Partners.
Founded out of Vienna in 2007, Tricentis offers a range of products and services to help companies automate the testing of their software, including Salesforce, SAP, and Oracle. One of its flagship tools is Tricentis Tosca , which enables “continuous testing” to allow companies to automatically receive real-time feedback on perceived business risks associated with a particular version of software. The company claims some notable big-name clients, including HBO, Toyota, BMW, Starbucks, Deutsche Bank, and UBS.
“Today’s predominantly manual software testing processes fail to meet the needs of today’s Agile and DevOps initiatives, which require highly accelerated development cycles and, at the same time, a strict accounting for the business risks associated with rapid, iterative code changes,” said Tricentis CEO Sandeep Johri. “Applications drive corporate growth, and continuous testing has been identified as the linchpin to achieve agility and ultimately competitive differentiation.” Tricentis had previously raised a $9 million series A round and, with offices in Europe, the U.S., India, and Australia, the company says it will use its fresh cash injection to “continue accelerating its market penetration” and scale its operations globally.
Some figures peg the global software testing market as a $34 billion industry , and we’ve seen a number of big raises in the past four months alone. Back in September, Massachusetts-based app-testing startup Applause closed a $35 million round , taking its total funding to more than $110 million. And two months later, San Francisco software-testing company Sauce Labs closed a chunky $70 million round , taking its total funding to around $100 million.
“Software quality testing has traditionally required a large amount of time and manual effort, forcing compromises between speed, scope of testing, and quality of testing,” said Insight managing director Mike Triplett. “To reduce time to market and improve software quality, organizations are abandoning monolithic testing solutions, and turning to Tricentis.” As part of its investment, Triplett will also join Tricentis’ board of directors.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
