Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages With $10 million in funding, 2 ex-Googlers launch Mabl to bring machine learning to software testing Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
What do you do when your first startup is acquired by Google shortly after launch? Hang around at Google for a few years and then launch your next venture, of course.
That’s exactly what Stackdriver founders Dan Belcher and Izzy Azeri did after they sold their cloud systems monitoring business to Google back in May, 2014. The internet giant didn’t waste time in leveraging its purchase, and it went on to launch the newly branded Google Stackdriver in early 2016.
This incarnation served as a monitoring and diagnostics tool for applications stored on the Google Cloud Platform and, interestingly, Amazon Web Services (AWS).
In January 2017, Belcher and Azeri left their product management roles at Google to form Mabl , a SaaS-based automated software testing tool that uses machine learning to find bugs, JavaScript errors, broken links, latency, visual regressions, and more. The Boston-based startup raised $10 million shortly after it was founded last year, in a series A round from Charles River Ventures and Amplify Partners, though Mabl only announced this funding today.
After a short limited alpha period, the company is also officially launching its Mabl QA automation product today for free as part of a public beta program. Existing clients include fitness-tracking app Runkeeper, which is now owned by Asics, and Codeship, which was acquired by CloudBees a few weeks back.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! In a nutshell, Mabl is all about creating and maintaining automated tests and then analyzing the results, and promises to help developers’ quality assurance (QA) processes keep pace with the actual software development part of building a web app or website.
Indeed, QA is key to shipping functional and flaw-free products, but it can often slow shipping down because it requires continuously testing your code. Users install a Chrome extension to “train” Mabl, and Mabl creates machine learning models that predict how the app should perform, and the more tests it carries out on a particular app, the more it learns. For example, it may observe that a web page is loading more slowly than it had previously, which makes it easier to detect the flaw and determine what changes have led to this latency increase.
“We have interviewed hundreds of software teams, and their message is loud and clear: QA is struggling to keep pace with DevOps,” said Azeri. “This area hasn’t received the level of investment and innovation that we have seen in other aspects of modern development, and teams are forced to choose between quality and speed.” There is no shortage of automated software testing tools out there, including Selenium, which Mabl said is the QA tool used most commonly used by its current alpha-stage clients. But by bringing machine learning into the mix and offering scriptless testing through the browser, the company hopes to not only expedite the testing process, but to simplify it. It can also integrate into developers’ existing workflow, as it supports Atlassian, Jira, Slack, Webhooks, Jenkins, and more.
“Mabl is really about making QA automation as simple as possible,” added Belcher. “You can create tests in minutes, and we handle the burden of running and maintaining them and analyzing the results.” Mabl is available in public beta for free from today.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
