Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Workplace management platform Envoy nabs $111M to power the hybrid workforce Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Envoy Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Envoy , a workplace management platform that caters to the burgeoning hybrid workforce, has raised $111 million in a series C round of funding at a $1.4 billion valuation.
The company’s cash injection comes as businesses across industries have had to reevaluate how they operate, now that remote work is very much the order of the day.
 Indeed, just yesterday, Meta, (formerly Facebook) became the latest big-name company to delay its return-to-office plans.
Founded in 2013 initially as a sign-in system for office receptions, Envoy has evolved to solve many of the problems that modern workplaces face, particularly with teams split between the office and remote (e.g., home) working environments. The platform supports schedule coordination for booking desks and rooms, welcoming visitors, receiving deliveries, verifying COVID-19 vaccinations and test results, and more.
The company claims a slew of big-name customers, including Slack, Pinterest, Hulu, Stripe, and Mazda.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Workplace automation Automation is a central component of the Envoy platform, ensuring that the right details are sent to the right people at the right time. For example, if a visitor arrives at reception or a package arrives, the relevant employee can be notified instantly. Workers can also add their expected visitors to Envoy, so other team members can receive alerts about who is arriving and when.
Above: Envoy notifications Envoy sports a bunch of integrations out the box, spanning communication, access control, customer support, identity management, security, productivity, and more.
Prior to now, Envoy had raised around $59 million, and with its latest investment the San Francisco-based company is looking to build on its recent growth, which it said has helped it add more new revenue in the past 12 months than in the previous two years combined.
Much of this has come down to the Envoy’s decision to shape-shift, molding itself into a product suitable for these times. The company launched Envoy Protect last year to help companies reopen their offices, allowing employees to see who’s working when and where they’ll be working from. It also allows users to set their physical workplace schedule, certify that they are healthy, and sign in when they arrive.
“When COVID-19 happened, our customers came to us for help — many needed to reopen for essential workers, but in a safe way that would help their people feel confident about coming back,” Envoy founder and CEO Larry Gadea said in a statement. “They knew we could build something with a really great employee experience that people would want to use. We proved that we’re problem solvers who can be agile, build fast, and outpace everyone else.” Above: Envoy: Capacity reporting Envoy Protect now accounts for more than half of the company’s new revenue.
Envoy is one of many companies to emerge from the pandemic stronger than before by focusing on what the “ future of work ” really means. Common components that straddle these platforms are automation, collaboration, and communication — with the cloud serving as the foundation that enables anyone to access the technology from anywhere.
Envoy’s series C round was led by Brookfield Growth, with participation from Menlo Ventures, Andreessen Horowitz, Initialized Capital, Haystack, Bam Elevate, Seven Seven Six, Triple Point Capital, Elad Gil, among others.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
