Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Jobs Half of Americans fake sick days — so what’s the solution? Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Answer honestly: have you ever faked a sick day from work so you could do something a little more fun? For those who said yes, rest assured that there’s safety in numbers. In fact, almost 50% of Americans surveyed have admitted to faking a sick day at one point during their career.
Reasons vary, but some of the more light-hearted excuses include attending a family event (29%), personal appointments (23%) and going on vacation (12%) but overall, employees taking sick days results in 1.5 million Americans , on average, missing work due to illness, real of otherwise, each month –costing the economy millions of dollars.
Research from Statista shows that the U.S. ranks last in terms of the amount of paid time off it grants its workers — including bank holidays and vacation days — with the average worker entitled to only 10 days off per annum.
By comparison, U.K. workers receive on average 37 paid days off each year while the French aren’t far behind, giving workers 36 days PTO. Which means, for the 12% of Americans who aren’t entitled to any paid vacation days at all, the reason for faking a sick day may be more akin to avoiding burnout than going to the beach.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! If the pandemic taught us anything, it’s that burnout is very real and tends to increase when people are working from home as there’s no clear differentiation between work and play. The most obvious solution to avoiding burnout is to take time off work, but when your time off remains unpaid, that’s not the easiest solution.
Even if you are granted vacation days, the extra pressure and responsibilities being put on workers as a result of The Great Resignation can make it difficult to take allocated leave. In fact, last year one in four Americans surrendered their annual leave to continue working, which may well be why 79% of Americans have experienced work-related stress.
What can I do? What options are available to workers who want access to additional paid days off? Well, simply put, look for a new job.
If your current employers offer the bare minimum in terms of statutory paid time off, then you’re unlikely to ever see a change there. Which means moving roles is the best solution. We’ve selected three roles to look at below, and for more browse the Venturebeat Job Board yourself.
Profit Protection Analyst, Dyson The Role: The Profit Protection Analyst will focus on strategic loss identification, prevention and reduction working to protect Dyson’s employees, property and information from preventable harm or damage.
The Responsibilities: You will lead the evolution of data to ensure all areas of the “Total Loss” risk profile are reported as well as analyzing all data to provide the team with accurate information, including trend and risk analysis — encompassing the entire supply chain stock journey from manufacture through to sale.
The Requirements: You will have previous experience as an analyst in a similar role as well as in-depth experience in analyzing data with history, identify red flags and inform investigatory next steps.
Apply for the Profit Protection Analyst role or explore other exciting roles across Dyson.
Senior Infrastructure Engineer, CrowdStrike The Role: As Senior Infrastructure Engineer at CrowdStrike, you work with the wider teams using several open-source projects to help progress the company’s internal automation to the next level.
The Responsibilities: You will be responsible for developing and maintaining chef infrastructure, cookbooks and other core infrastructure services such as DNS, Grafana/Graphite, and proxy services to support the CrowdStrike engineering team’s pursuit of a full DevOps model.
The Requirements: You will have strong experience working within large-scale, business-critical Linux environments as well as experience operating within the cloud, preferably Amazon Web Services. A demonstrable ability to work effectively with both local and remote teams is an added bonus.
Apply for the Senior Infrastructure Engineer position with CrowdStrike or browse other tech roles available at the cyber security giant.
Events Marketing Manager, Remodel USA The Role: The Events Marketing Manager at Remodel USA will work remotely to effectively build and brand events for the entire company across multiple states The Responsibilities: You will be responsible for developing strategies to maximize ROI, determine customer demand and drive customer awareness while also coordinating product development in line with industry trends.
The Requirements: You will have previous marketing experience, industry knowledge and be hugely detail orientated as well as having demonstrable experience in project management.
Apply for the Events Marketing Manager role or explore other remote opportunities at Remodel USA.
Explore and bookmark the VentureBeat Job Board now to find your perfect tech role.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
