Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google launches Spaces group-sharing app on Android, iOS, and desktop Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Spaces by Google Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google is today lifting the lid on a brand-new app called Spaces , which the Internet giant calls a “tool for group sharing.” The app has been in private beta for a few months already, but today it’s shedding those beta tags and will start rolling out on Android, iOS, the desktop, and the mobile Web for Gmail accounts.
Users create what are known (unsurprisingly) as “spaces” for a specific topic or purpose, and then invite anyone to join. When new content is added, each member of the space is alerted. You can also search for previously shared content through the search box.
Above: Google: Spaces app Above: Google: Spaces app The company says it will experiment with the Spaces app at its annual Google I/O event later this week.
“We wanted to build a better group sharing experience, so we made a new app called Spaces that lets people get people together instantly to share around any topic,” said Luke Wroblewski, product director, in a blog post.
 “With Spaces, it’s simple to find and share articles, videos and images without leaving the app, since Google Search, YouTube, and Chrome come built in.” Spaces is kind of like a social network crossed with a messaging app, and it could be Google’s attempt to gain traction in a space that has become dominated by the omnipresence of Facebook, which lays claim to billions of users across Messenger, WhatsApp, Instagram, and — of course — Facebook, itself.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
