Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Slack launches the ‘Add to Slack’ button to make it easier to integrate apps and content Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn You can now send files from Box into Slack, thanks to the new "Add to Slack" button.
Team communication app Slack today announced that groups of people using the app’s free tier of service can now integrate with as many as 10 apps. Until now — since the app launched in February 2014 — Slack allowed no more than five free integrations.
The change should come in handy, because today Slack is also introducing a new tool developers can use to easily pump their content into Slack. It’s called the “Add to Slack” button. It should be useful because up until now, developing new official integrations hasn’t always been easy.
“[T]o date there has been a problem sharing custom apps for Slack — getting a copy of someone’s code, spinning up a server, and configuring incoming and outgoing webhooks is tedious and a lot of work,” Slack wrote in a blog post today.
After you click the “Add to Slack” button, you’ll choose the team and the channel that will get the integration. Then notifications and emails can be routed into Slack, and certain apps will also let you push content directly into Slack.
Heroku has previously offered up a button that make it easier to take action on web content with its service, and developers have built unofficial buttons for GitHub.
 Now Slack is using this approach to increase its presence and make Slack the best place to collaborate.
Above: Slack’s new Nuzzel integration, courtesy of the “Add to Slack” button.
Twelve apps have already introduced the “Add to Slack” button: 99Designs, Airtable, Box, Breaking News, Cronitor, HelloSign, Intercom, InVision, Launchkit, Lever, Managed by Q, Nuzzel, Wake, and Zeplin. Documentation for the new button is here.
Slack, which now has more than 1.1 million daily active users , competes with enterprise social networks like VMware’s Socialcast, Microsoft’s Yammer, and Convo, among others.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
