Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Slack introduces a Google Drive bot and connection to Google Team Drives Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Slack logo cast on the wall of a building ahead of the company's launch event around its platform on December 15, 2015.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Slack’s integration with Google Drive is getting an update , with the unveiling of new features set to roll out in 2017. Today, the productivity app company announced that users will soon be able to leverage a Google Drive bot that manages notifications across Google Docs, Sheets, and Slides, stripping them away from email. In addition, Slack channels can now be connected to Team Drives, and administrators can provision Slack through the G Suite admin console.
Google Drive support first came into being in October and allows users to create and share docs and files natively within Slack. Now it’s being broadened so you can do much more without leaving the application. Slack claimed that “millions” of Google Drive files are shared in its app monthly, and to maintain that activity while shoring up its defenses against the likes of Facebook Workspaces and others, it is now time for new features.
A big part of these soon-to-be released updates is the bot. Google has created a tool that pings you with notifications in Slack about updates, edits, and other requests relating to files you might be sharing with team members. It utilizes the message buttons that became available in June so you can approve, reject, and comment, or you can take care of these matters right within Google Docs.
Slack said that the Drive bot will connect to the end user, rather than a specific channel. More details will be released next year when the bot officially launches.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Also coming soon is the integration with Google Team Drive, which enables administrators to keep all content and conversations within groups of employees in sync. This means being able to track which Slack channels files have been shared to, as well as cross-posting of documents when uploaded into Team Drive, and making Team Drive the default file storage space for those who opt for advanced cloud storage controls.
For administrators who manage large teams and have a preference for provisioning, Slack can be managed from within the G Suite dashboard. Formerly Google Apps for Work , G Suite is a suite of apps for entire companies to use. It’s now within the dashboard, and admins can choose who has access to Slack.
Other updates coming soon include Google Doc previewing within Slack and distributing permission-free files to teams — when you share a file into a channel, Slack will vet it to ensure that everyone in that group can access it.
“The new features will connect Slack to the broader Google products and technologies that can support their business growth and go deeper on how the two can work together,” a Slack spokesperson told VentureBeat.
Amid these coming updates, Slack is finding itself facing an ever-more-crowded marketplace, so it needs to continue to show that its 4 million daily active users are able to do more than simply communicate with each other. Already there’s Ryver, HipChat, Yammer, Kato, Br.im, and a bunch of others to contend with. And then there are the offerings coming from Microsoft , Facebook, and Cisco.
The aforementioned updates are not available today, and no specific timeline has been provided, beyond that they will be available some time in 2017.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
