Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Slack bots have a new home: Slack Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Slack head of developer relations Amir Shevat speaks at MB 2017 at Fort Mason in San Francisco.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The Slack Platform received an update today that brings its App Directory inside the chat client. Until today, the platform’s more than 1,000 apps could only be added to a Slack channel by visiting the App Directory in a web browser.
The news was shared onstage by Slack director of developer relations Amir Shevat at MB 2017 , a two-day gathering of AI and bot industry innovators.
Active apps are now listed in the sidebar below direct messages and channels. To install new apps, just click or tap the “Apps” label above active apps to search by name or type or to open the App Directory.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! When you select an app on Slack now, you’ll see a description along with instructional videos and other materials from the developer.
The Slack App Directory now includes more than 1,000 apps, 200 of which are used by more than 1,000 teams, Slack Platform product lead Buster Benson said in a Medium post.
The Slack Fund today also announced investment in seven additional bot startups, bringing the total to 32 investments since December 2015.
 Among them: Polly creates polls and surveys of employees or team members in a Slack channel Neva provides IT support Drafted recruits for hiring positions within companies Parabol creates team project management dashboards PinPT Software tracks team spending Loom lets teams share quick videos for collaboration StdLib connects businesses and developers via APIs Slack Fund investments and apps inside the Slack chat client weren’t the only changes made this week: The Slack app logo has also changed slightly, dropping some of its stripes and the plaid look for more solid colors.
Plans to bring its App Directory inside the Slack app were shared in a May update to the Slack Platform’s public Trello board.
 Other plans ahead for the Slack Platform include new display options for lists and tables, and to allow developers to track events like when a Slack team uninstalls an app.
Competition for Slack has grown steadily since it launched its platform in December 2015, with the introduction of Microsoft Teams , Google’s Hangout Chats , and Facebook’s Workplace , all of which plan to include third-party integrations or bots.
Slack now has five million daily active users, up from four million last fall.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
