Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Slack launches Block Kit to make it easier to build apps Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Slack today made its Block Kit tool for building more visually appealing apps generally available. The Slack App Directory currently has more than 1,500 apps, and the Slack Platform for the creation of apps and automated bots dates back to 2015.
The company also introduced Block Kit Builder for designing apps and testing app prototypes.
Block Kit and Block Kit Builder were created to make it easier to design apps and deliver a more consistent user experience. With that in mind, Block Kit launches with five basic blocks, including “Image” for image containers and “Actions” to add interactive elements, like buttons and six types of drop-down menus.
There’s also a text container block called “Section,” a “Context” container for descriptive metadata, and “Divider” to make space between blocks.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Examples of apps built with Block Kit include Doodle for scheduling and Guru for saving an organization’s collective knowledge.
Block Kit was first released in preview in May 2018 at Slack developer conference Spec.
“Besides these blocks themselves, the other thing that this provides is flexibility in terms of vertical control: You decide how you want to stack components, how you want to place them on the page, and what order makes the most sense for your app and user base,” said Slack Platform general manager Brian Elliott last year at Spec.
More interactive elements, display types, app installation within Slack, and many other near- and long-term plans are laid out in the Slack Platform Roadmap for Developers , a Trello board you can view online.
More than 90 percent of Slack’s 10 million daily active users utilize at least one app, a company spokesperson told VentureBeat in an email.
Last month, Slack filed paperwork to launch an initial public offering later this year.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
