Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Slack passes 3 million daily active users, 930K paid seats Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Slack announced that its team communication app is seeing continued growth , with more than 3 million (weekday) daily active users. This is up 1 million from just six months ago. What’s more, the company now has 930,000 paid seats, which is a 31 percent increase from February, when it reported 675,000 paid seats.
Alongside this news, Slack has also hired former Salesforce senior vice president for commercial sales in Asia Pacific Robert Frati as its vice president of sales, which is noteworthy since the company claims 77 of the Fortune 100 companies use its product.
The addition of someone skilled in dealing with corporations could be part of a major push to bring the communication app into more businesses besides startups and other collaborative environments. And as Frati has specialized in the Asia-Pacific region, perhaps he can also establish more partnerships with companies in that area of the world? Slack has been on a growth spurt, adding more than 1 million daily active users practically every six months for the past year. In June, the company counted 1 million DAU and then doubled it in December before hitting the 3 million mark today. It also shared that more than 2 million users are connected to Slack’s communication app “simultaneously,” meaning that at any given moment, most of its users are interfacing with each other on the platform.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! While a reason for the increased usage hasn’t been officially released, it could be the new integrations and developer platform Slack has created, easier integrations with third-party apps , the spotlight on bots, or perhaps those funny commercials that the company is airing.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
