Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages OpenAI acquires startup founded by ex-Instagram talent for undisclosed sum Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Credit: VentureBeat made with Midjourney Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
OpenAI is making more moves. The company behind ChatGPT and Dall-E 2 just announced it has acquired Global Illumination, Inc.
, a New York City-based startup founded in 2021 by a trio of former Facebook and Instagram workers — Thomas Dimson, Taylor Gordon and Joey Flynn, who worked on engineering and product design at the Meta companies, respectively.
“Global Illumination is a company that has been leveraging AI to build creative tools, infrastructure, and digital experiences,” writes OpenAI in the blog post announcing the acquisition, adding that the Global Illumination, Inc. team “have also made significant contributions at YouTube, Google, Pixar, Riot Games and other notable companies.” Some web users celebrated the move as an excellent “acqui-hire” for OpenAI — that is, acquiring new talent via buying up an entire team or firm.
Oh dang, @OpenAI just acqui-hired everyone at @illdotinc to work on chatGPT and other OAI things! ? Global Illumination has some heavy weight talent, the CEO ( @turtlesoupy ) previously authored the Instagram algo, and the full team is ? cracked! pic.twitter.com/BOlNsrg5XM OpenAI says that the talent from Global Illumination will “work on our core products including ChatGPT.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Yet Global Illumination’s name and previous work appear to be focused on visual-facing products and services, indicating that OpenAI may be pursuing more multimedia features for ChatGPT, or building out its Dall-E 2 image generation service, or perhaps launching a video-generation product to rival fellow New York City startup Runway with its Gen-2 text-to-video generator.
Global Illumination recently developed a web-based massive multiplayer online roleplaying game (MMORPG) called Biomes.
Furthermore, the term “ global illumination ” has been used in computer graphics for many years to describe the algorithms that create realistic lighting effects on 3D objects. One of the initial algorithms for global illumination came about from California Institute of Technology (Caltech) researcher James “Jim” Kajiya in 1986.
Dimson, who is Global Illumination’s CEO, penned an article for the a16z publication Future , disclosing he led the team that developed Instagram’s personalized content ranking/recommendation engine that replaced its default reverse chronological feed.
Terms of the deal were not publicly disclosed by either company. VentureBeat has reached out to OpenAI and Global Illumination for further details and will continue to update this report.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
