Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Bito launches ChatGPT-powered assistant for developers, personalized to their codebase Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Credit: VentureBeat made with Midjourney Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Bito, a B2B startup from Menlo Park, New Jersey with over 100,000 users that describes itself as the “Swiss Army knife of capabilities” for software developers, has launched a new AI coding assistant powered by OpenAI’s popular ChatGPT large language model (LLM), and announced $3.2 million in new funding.
The assistant, dubbed Bito AI, can learn from a user’s own codebase — though importantly, it keeps all of this information on a user’s device, maintaining security and privacy by using a vector database to index and search their code, and routes only natural language queries to ChatGPT 3.5 and ChatGPT 4.
How Bito AI works The new tool works by allowing developers to simply ask Bito AI to complete a software development task in one of 25 supported languages — for example, “write a Java function to authenticate a user and provide them a welcome message” — and returns results in 50 programming languages.
With Bito’s AI assistant, developers can generate unit tests, explain their code, add comments to their functions, improve code performance, check for known security issues and gain insight into technical concepts, among other features.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “Any developer at any sized company can use Bito,” said Amar Goel, Bito’s cofounder and CEO, in a phone call. He added that developers from 162 countries were among Bito’s signups so far, and that 32% of the Fortune 100 companies were represented among its users, though the user base skewed primarily toward startups. Goel also said that Bito AI is GDPR complaint.
Ultimately, the company aims to add other leading LLMs including Anthropic’s Claude to Bito AI.
As for why a developer would choose to use Bito AI over using the existing web interface of leading LLMs Goel told VentureBeat that Bito AI, and the entire Bito platform, plugs directly into a developer’s existing coding environment and workspace, meaning they would not have to toggle back and forth to a web page to get results. It also highlights, and allows them to approve or decline, suggested code snippets and changes.
Currently in its Alpha release, Bito AI is free to use and has been designed to work seamlessly with Visual Studio Code, JetBrains IDEs, and the CLI.
Developers using Bito have found it significantly enhances productivity. The AI-powered assistant can generate source code from natural language prompts, answer queries, and give feedback on existing code in any language. According to the company, developers use the platform almost 200 times per month and report a 31% increase in productivity, thanks to the time saved on routine tasks.
Bito’s origin story and backers Bito was founded by Goel and Anand Das, formerly of the digital advertising company Pubmatic, and Mukesh Agarwal, a former product leader at Microsoft and Ernst & Young.
The startup’s latest funding round was spearheaded by Eniac Ventures and received support from The Cap Table Coalition, an organization dedicated to diversifying the venture capital landscape by creating investment opportunities for traditionally underrepresented groups. High-profile tech innovators, including Mohak Shroff, SVP of engineering at LinkedIn, and Sri Shivananda, CTO at PayPal, were also among the investors.
DJ Patil, general partner at GreatPoint Ventures and former chief data scientist of the United States and LinkedIn, believes that Bito’s engine can save developers an hour each day, while significantly enhancing the quality of production systems.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
