Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 90% of orgs indicate increased demand for automation Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
A new report by Salesforce revealed that demand for automation from business teams for over 90% of organizations has increased over the last two years.
The automation revolution is here, and companies are beginning to take hold. In an increasingly competitive market and macroeconomic uncertainty across markets, businesses are seeking ways to automate their processes and workflows in order to drive growth, productivity and efficiency.
However, despite the desire for increased automation, 96% of respondents said that they find modifying and rebuilding automations challenging, and 80% of organizations are concerned that supporting automation is likely to compound technical debt. And while there is clear indication that digitally-forward companies recognize that automation is critical , there are right and wrong ways to create a reliable and holistic automation strategy.
Speed is most often a goal when it comes to automation, but implementing it too quickly without the right tools in place will leave a business in a very vulnerable and risky position. That is why companies must implement automation in a scalable and future-proof way, one which builds upon and improves on existing technologies rather than impeding them and accruing technical debt.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! As business landscapes continue to evolve, organizations must be adept with flexible technologies that can adapt to change rapidly. Automation is proving to be an integral part of every corporate strategy, and Salesforce’s research suggests that automation will play a key role as companies grapple with continuous digital transformation.
For its report, Salesforce commissioned a global survey of 600 CIOs and IT decision-makers.
Read the full report by Salesforce.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
