Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 84% of marketing leaders use predictive analytics, but struggle with data-driven decisions Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Artificial intelligence (AI) holds great promise for businesses today, especially for marketing teams who must anticipate customers’ interests and behavior to achieve their goals. Despite the growing availability of AI-powered technologies, many marketers are still in the early days of formulating their AI strategies.
There is strong interest in the potential of AI-based predictive analytics , but marketing teams face various challenges in fully adopting this technology. With no universal playbook available for integrating data science into marketing, various approaches have evolved, with varying success levels.
Pecan AI’s Predictive Analytics in Marketing Survey report reflects this complex situation and provides key insight for marketing teams and business leaders tackling challenges with AI, regardless of where they might be on the adoption curve.
Key findings — integrating AI predictive analytics While many companies tout the criticality of consumer data across areas, from predicting future purchases to customer churn, the reality is that more than 4 out of 5 marketing executives report difficulty in making data-driven decisions despite all of the consumer data at their disposal. The same number of respondents (84%) say their ability to predict consumer behavior feels like guesswork.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! An overwhelming majority (95%) of companies now integrate AI-powered predictive analytics into their marketing strategy, including 44% who have indicated that they’ve integrated it into their strategy completely. Among companies that have completely integrated AI predictive analytics into their marketing strategy, 90% report that it is difficult for them to make day-to-day data-driven decisions.
Marketing and data science face unique challenges when trying to collaborate. As a result, data projects stall. The study provides insight into their struggles including: 38% of respondents say data isn’t updated quickly enough to be valuable.
35% say it takes too long to build the models.
42% say data scientists are overwhelmed and don’t have the time to meet requests.
40% say those building the models don’t understand marketing goals.
37% of respondents indicate that wrong or partial data is used to build models.
Methodology The Pecan Predictive Analytics in Marketing Survey was conducted by Wakefield Research among 250 U.S. marketing executives with a minimum seniority of director. These executives work at B2C companies that use predictive analytics and have a minimum annual revenue of $100M. Participants responded to an email invitation and an online survey between September 13-21, 2022.
Read the full report from Pecan.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
