Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Rust fans angry at developer for working on two games at once Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Survival game Rust from Facepunch Studios is a surprise hit on Steam.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Most of the time, people love hearing that one of their favorite developers is working on a new game. But what if that studio hasn’t fully released a game that you already bought? That’s exactly the situation Garry’s Mod and Rust developer Facepunch Studios is in now. Rust is an survival-based game available on Steam’s Early Access program. That means that you can still buy and play Rust, but it’s technically in a prerelease state. This enables Facepunch to make money on sales of a title that isn’t even officially done.
It’s a newer concept in the world of gaming, but most fans seem fine with it. In fact, Rust has already sold over a million copies. However, Facepunch revealed a new game , Riftlight, last Friday. The studio is working on the arcade shooter concurrently with Rust, a move that has angered fans who feel that Facepunch is using the money they spent on Rust for development on another game.
Above: Riftlight is an arcade shooter from Facepunch.
“We are spending money Rust and Garry’s Mod make to do this,” Facepunch founder Gary Newman said in a blog post defending his company. “Arguing that we should be re-investing that money back into only those games is like telling Apple they can’t spend the money they made from iPhone and Macs to fund the development of the iPad. Keep in mind that we spent money Garry’s Mod made to develop Rust — and that turned out pretty good, right?” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Newman also pointed out that it is not unusual for a studio to work on more than one game at a time. “I am guessing that a lot of game developers bigger and smaller than us have multiple prototypes in the works, but they aren’t showing them to you,” Newman wrote in the same blog post. “The only thing that makes our situation remarkable is that we’re willing to talk about our process and show our experiments.” Facepunch might be right. It certainly isn’t unusual for a studio to work on more than one game at a time. However, in this new era of crowd-funding and early access, this won’t be the last time confused funders and buyers get irked by the decisions of a development world that they know little about.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
