Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Atos and OVHcloud plan EU-made cloud services Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn People walk in front of Atos company's logo during a presentation of the new Bull sequana supercomputer in Paris, France, April 12, 2016.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
( Reuters ) — IT consulting group Atos and OVHcloud are partnering to offer fully European-led cloud computing services, the two French groups said on Tuesday.
The move is aimed at widening the choices for European-based companies and public sector entities in the fast-growing cloud computing sector , which is dominated by Amazon, Microsoft, and Alphabet’s Google.
Microsoft and Amazon alone had a combined worldwide market share of more than 50% in the third quarter of 2020, according to Synergy Research Group.
This dominance has raised concerns in Europe that sensitive corporate data could be insecure in the wake of the adoption of the U.S. CLOUD Act of 2018 and in the absence of any major competitors, except China’s Alibaba.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The concerns led to the creation of European association Gaia-X, set up to establish common standards for storing and processing data on servers that are sited locally and comply with the European Union’s strict laws on data privacy.
Atos and OVHcloud say they together have a network of 130 datacenters able to host data in virtual spaces whose resources are not shared with other users or private environments.
French cybersecurity agency ANSSI recently granted its SecNumCloud label to OVHcloud, a certification that requires the implementation of high-security standards.
Atos, whose computer scientists also help companies install cloud computing services from Microsoft, Google, and Amazon, will provide cybersecurity software hosted by OVHcloud.
Amazon, Microsoft, and Google say they abide by EU rules and make sure they protect the data entrusted to them.
Many analysts are skeptical of the ability of newcomers to dent the dominance in Europe of U.S. companies, which have spent heavily in recent years to expand in the region.
( Reporting by Mathieu Rosemain in Paris, editing by Matthew Lewis.
) VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
