Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Guest Source code must become a C-level priority Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
We’ve all heard Marc Andreessen’s famous proclamation in 2011 that “software is eating the world.” It was a prescient statement: Today, modern, digital-driven enterprises provide all sorts of software-based products and services, while also relying heavily on software to manage their internal operations. Even organizations known for selling hardware, such as electronics companies and automakers, are increasingly offering subscription-based software services to grow revenues.
Organizations have long realized how important their software is to their business. But they’re now fully realizing just how critical their software’s source code is. Source code is the most critical asset. It contains all the business logic and dictates how the software will behave and how it will perform. It’s the source code that is eating the world.
Source code is the foundation of every modern enterprise. The C-suite needs to take ownership of the code and make it a priority on par with things like sales, marketing, security, finance and HR. To strengthen this critical strategic asset and maximize their business results, organizations must focus on code at the highest level.
The source-code problem This transition will address a major problem that has gone unchecked for years: code ownership. Someone has to be responsible for stewarding source code and software. Today, there is no one who really owns source code.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Developers don’t feel like they own code because most software contains lots of legacy code that they didn’t write. Instead, they only feel like they have ownership over the new code that they’re writing. This hurts overall code quality. Bad legacy code is often ignored and allowed to fester, leading to worse software performance and potential vulnerabilities.
We’re seeing more chief development officers (CDOs) emerge, but they’re mostly responsible for owning the software development process and ensuring best practices are followed, not owning the code itself. CDOs and VPs of engineering ultimately focus on process and efficiency, not on code ownership.
Owning code at the C-level Enterprises that prioritize code will ensure that there is someone at the highest level of an organization who is in charge of code and accountable for its success or failure. Today, it’s unthinkable that any major company could exist without an executive dedicated to managing security or someone in charge of managing finances. As the C-level begins to make code a priority, every modern, software-driven organization will have a leader dedicated to owning code. In some cases, this may take the form of chief coding officers (CCOs).
Code ownership will help eliminate technical debt.
 Any organization that’s large enough to have 200–300 developers will likely have a tremendous amount of technical debt resulting from flawed legacy code. With someone specifically in charge of code, organizations can dedicate efforts to systematically clean code, fixing mistakes and minimizing their technical debt.
In turn, this will free developers to focus on new projects and drive real business value. These leaders will also spearhead efforts to preemptively correct coding errors before they cause major problems for the software (and the business), resulting in even greater developer productivity and overall efficiency.
Almost every major enterprise, no matter its industry, relies heavily on software to deliver services, manage operations internally or promote itself. Without clean code, the performance of this software will suffer, negatively impacting the business. As more organizations continue to recognize that source code is the central component of software, they will begin to prioritize it at the boardroom level and will ensure that they have someone, perhaps a CCO, who is solely responsible for the success of their code.
Olivier Gaudin is CEO and cofounder of Sonar DataDecisionMakers Welcome to the VentureBeat community! DataDecisionMakers is where experts, including the technical people doing data work, can share data-related insights and innovation.
If you want to read about cutting-edge ideas and up-to-date information, best practices, and the future of data and data tech, join us at DataDecisionMakers.
You might even consider contributing an article of your own! Read More From DataDecisionMakers The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! DataDecisionMakers Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
