Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Graph database company Neo4j launches free fully-managed cloud service Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Neo4j Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Let the OSS Enterprise newsletter guide your open source journey! Sign up here.
Neo4j , the company behind the eponymous open source graph database , has officially launched a completely free version of its fully-managed cloud service.
The San Mateo, California-based company first debuted Neo4j AuraDB Free as part of an early access program back in June , but today it launches into general availability for everyone.
Connecting the dots Graph databases power core functionality in many modern applications and connect the dots between disparate pieces of data that are not so obviously related — it’s the technology that enables Facebook to make friend recommendations and for cybersecurity software to identify threats.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Above: Neo4j: Drawing connections between movie data It has been a big year for graph database platforms, with TigerGraph scooping up $105 million, ArangoDB raising $27.8 million , and Neo4j itself securing $320 million at a $2 billion valuation.
Neo4J has so far offered a range of pricing options, spanning both hosted and self-hosted. After launching its AuraDB enterprise product back in January, the company went about creating a special version of its premium hosted product aimed at smaller development projects. While one of the benefits of open source projects is that developers are free to use and deploy a product as they see fit, not all developers want the hassles or costs involved in self-hosting — which is where AuraDB Free comes into play.
Above: Neo4j: Create a new database It perhaps goes without saying that AuraDB Free has major limitations in terms of the number and size of databases it supports, and it is not designed for enterprise-grade projects — but it is completely free, with no trial period, time limits, and no credit card is required. And importantly, it sports most of the platform’s core functionality and developer tools, including data visualizations.
Ultimately, this is designed to lure independent developers onto the Neo4j platform early in the process, where they can later upgrade as their project grows. Alternatively, developers in enterprise settings might want to dabble with Neo4j to learn more about how it works or put it to use on prototype applications.
However developers decide to use the free hosted version of Neo4j, it all amounts to the same thing — encouraging uptake in the increasingly competitive data landscape.
“Some of the most innovative applications of Neo4j have come from our community, and we’re hoping AuraDB Free will further empower them and reduce friction to accelerate these ‘aha’ moments,” Neo4j’s CEO and cofounder Emil Eifrem noted in a press release. “Today, we’re stepping up to offer graph developers the easiest way to learn, test, and grow with us in the cloud.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
