Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report finds 82% of open-source software components ‘inherently risky’ Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Today, software supply chain security management company Lineaje , released a new report titled “ What’s in Your Open-Source Software? ” that found 82% of open-source software components are “inherently risky” due to a mix of vulnerabilities, security issues, code quality or maintainability concerns.
The report highlighted that while more than 70% of software in the enterprise is open source, these elements often aren’t tracked, maintained, updated or inventoried, leaving serious vulnerabilities in the software supply chain for threat actors to exploit.
This comes less than a week after CISA called for software vendors to take action to implement “secure-by-design” development processes to ship code that’s secure “out of the box.” Lineaje also found significant risk among widely-used open-source solutions, analyzing the top 44 popular projects of the Apache Software Foundation and discovering that 68% of dependencies are from non-Apache Software Foundation open-source projects, many with opaque origin and update mechanisms.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “It’s imperative that organizations today understand that open-source software has risks and is tamperable, even if it is very popular or provided by an established brand,” said Javed Hasan, CEO and cofounder of Lineaje.
“With more software being assembled than built, it’s become more important than ever to have formal tools to discover software DNA. Developers do not have X-ray vision to see inside a software component they include nor are most open-source selectors security experts,” Hasan said.
Given that 64% of all vulnerabilities have no fixes available yet, and can’t be patched, the report echoes CISA’s call for organizations to be more proactive about managing open-source risk. It also recommends that organizations deploy supply chain management tools that have the ability to assess the dynamic inherent risk and integrity of individual dependencies and projects.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
