Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages OpenAI rival Cohere raises a fresh $270 million to bring generative AI to the enterprise Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Credit: VentureBeat made with Midjourney Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
AI startup Cohere is most certainly no longer flying under the radar.
 The Toronto-based company just announced $270 million in a series C round of funding led by Inovia with participation from Nvidia, Oracle, Salesforce Ventures and others — valuing the company at over $2 billion.
“We are at the beginning of a new era driven by accelerated computing and generative AI ,” said Jensen Huang, founder and CEO of Nvidia, in a statement. “The team at Cohere has made foundational contributions to generative AI. Their service will help enterprises around the world harness these capabilities to automate and accelerate.” As VentureBeat reported in February, Aidan Gomez, cofounder and CEO of Cohere AI , had admitted that the company, which offers developers and businesses access to natural language processing (NLP) powered by large language models (LLMs) , is “crazy under the radar.” But given the quality of the company’s foundation models, which many say are competitive with the best from Google, OpenAI and others, he said that should not be the case.
Cohere, founded in 2019 by Gomez, Ivan Zhang and Nick Frosst, is just one company enjoying the investment frenzy into generative AI since Microsoft invested a fresh $10 billion into OpenAI in January. Just a couple of weeks ago, for example, Anthropic , a San Francisco-based AI startup and another rival to OpenAI, announced that it has raised $450 million in series C funding.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! And back in October 2022, the Wall Street Journal reported that Cohere had reportedly been in talks with both Google and Nvidia about a possible investment.
Cohere emphasized in a press release that its enterprise AI suite is cloud-agnostic and built to be deployed inside a customer’s existing cloud environment or virtual private cloud (VPC), or on-site.
Back in 2017, Gomez and a group of fellow Google Brain colleagues, who had co-authored the original Transformer paper “Attention Is All You Need,” were frustrated by the huge adoption of transformers within Google, while there was not a lot of adoption outside of it.
As a result, several Transformer co-authors famously decided to leave Google and found their own startups (for example, Noam Shazeer founded Character AI , and Niki Parmar and Ashish Vaswani founded Adept AI ) — including Gomez.
“We just decided we needed to do our own thing,” Gomez told VentureBeat. “We felt there were some fundamental barriers keeping enterprises and young developers and startup founders from [adopting NLP] and there’s got to be a way to bring those barriers down.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
