Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages SpecterOps raises $25M for attack path analysis to show hacker’s perspective Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Today, adversary simulation, detection and training services provider SpecterOps announced it has raised $25 million as part of a series A funding round led by Decibel.
The raise comes just a year after SpecterOps launched BloodHound Enterprise, a platform designed to analyze attack paths within Microsoft Active Directory (AD) and Azure AD. It also highlights a growing interest in solutions that enable defenders to identify potential attack paths and vulnerabilities from a hacker’s perspective.
“Attack paths are chains of abusable configurations and permissions that let attackers move laterally and escalate privileges within their target environments,” said SpecterOps CEO David McGuire. “In contrast to vulnerabilities which can frequently be resolved through patching, attack paths exist because of the complex privileges that exist within IAM platforms like Active Directory and Azure AD.” He continued: “Once an attacker has access to a network (maybe from a phishing email or getting an employee’s credentials from a data breach) they can use attack paths to move through the network and gain more access to deploy ransomware , steal sensitive data, conduct cyber espionage, or otherwise reach their final objective.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Continuous analysis and prioritization For instance, if a threat actor compromises the account of a user who has the ability to set the password of a coworker, they can reset this downstream individual’s password, login to the account and gain additional access to the environment, all while evading detection.
The organization is competing against a number of other vendors incorporating attack path analysis, including exposure management provider Tenable , which raised $683.2 million in revenue last year.
Tenable offers defenders attack path management capabilities to identify exploitable and realistic attack paths, while offering the Tenable.ad module to explore and visualize the underlying security relationships of Active Directory.
However, McGuire argues that existing solutions produce long lists of misconfigurations without prioritization or practical guidance, while BloodHound Enterprise can continuously analyze and prioritize every critical path in customer environments to help reduce risks quickly.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
