Indaba Programme Posters and Demos Coding and Practical Sessions Workshops Location and Venue Accomodation Useful Contacts Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Code of Ethics and Conduct Sponsorship Organisers IndabaX Awards Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Indaba Ubantu Reports Past Editions 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Indaba Programme Posters and Demos Coding and Practical Sessions Workshops Location and Venue Accomodation Useful Contacts Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Code of Ethics and Conduct Sponsorship Organisers IndabaX Awards Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Indaba Ubantu Reports Past Editions 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 IndabaX Central Uncategorized Wed 19. Oct 2022 IndabaX2022 Call for Growth Support Leads (East, Central and Southern Africa) We hope you’ll nominate yourself to join the IndabaX steering committee, which is the leadership team that oversees the IndabaX programme. We are seeking 3 new members to join the IndabaX leadership. Nominations due by 07-11-2022.
IndabaX Steering and the Community Health The IndabaX is one of the major programmes of the Deep Learning Indaba. The IndabaX events are locally-organised Indabas (i.e gatherings) that help develop knowledge and capacity in machine learning and artificial intelligence in individual countries across Africa. Whereas the annual Deep Learning Indaba (in normal times) brings everyone together in the same location, the IndabaX gives focus to individual countries, its needs, and the specific support and development needed.
The IndabaX steering committee is the bridge between all the individual IndabaX events, sharing experiences between them, and ensuring the health of local communities across our continent. We seek to add 3 new members to the team who will be the Growth Support Leads in-charge of East Africa, Central Africa and Southern Africa Regions. If you have been a lead of a previous IndabaX in your country, we encourage you to now take on a role in shaping the IndabaX at the continent-scale.
Roles and Expectations of the Growth Support Leads In general, all Growth Support Leads: Are passionate about strengthening African Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence.
Able to volunteer time to develop IndabaX communities in their respective regions and across Africa.
Have some experience organising communities and understand the challenges faced by the general tech community.
Come from across our African continent and from all backgrounds, i.e. from any country in the Region (East, Central or Southern Africa) they seek to represent, and can be students or academics, working in industry or the public secretary, etc.
Work within the codes or practice of the Deep Learning Indaba, driven by values of Ubuntu and a strong ethical compass.
Specific tasks you will be involved in as an IndabaX steering committee member are: Develop calls for hosts and future leaders.
Support individual IndabaX communities and help them best develop their programmes.
Review applications and budget allocation to different communities Report progress of the IndabaX and the health of the African ML community Work on new ways to improve the IndabaX programme overall.
Help support fundraising, communications, and maintain the integrity of the Deep Learning Indaba.
This is a volunteer role, i.e. not a paid role. We do not expect committee members to incur any expenses in supporting this role, although where needed expenses might be incurred these will be covered.
Take a role on the committee for 2 years.
Please apply by sending a nomination to indabax@deeplearningindaba.com with the following contents: Please use [IndabaX2022] Call for Growth Support Leads as subject Your application should answer the following questions: What motivates you to join the IndabaX steering committee? What is your past experience with IndabaX? What challenges did you face in organising your previous event(s) and how did you overcome them? What are you particularly proud of when you think back on your previous event(s)? Can you provide the names of 3 other IndabaX organisers who can support your nomination? If you have any questions or want to know more, please get in touch using indabax@deeplearningindaba.com.
What is the IndabaX The IndabaX programme started in 2018 as an experiment in strengthening our machine learning community beyond the annual Deep Learning Indaba, to allow more people to contribute to the conversation on artificial intelligence and machine learning. We join hands across our beautiful continent. The initiative continues in 2022, and it is YOUR initiative! share: Comments (0) Click here to cancel reply.
IndabaX Central IndabaX2023 Call for Hosts on Nov 01, 2022 06:34 AM Submit applications to host IndabaX events in your country, anywhere across Africa by 02 December 2022. The process is simple and we hope to support as many as we can. To apply, simply fill in this form! About the IndabaX program The IndabaX programme started in 2018 as an experiment in strengthening our machine learning community beyond[...] IndabaX Central IndabaX 2022 Events on Aug 15, 2022 09:32 AM Introduction IndabaX started in 2018 as a series of locally run, community driven events[...] Categories IndabaX Central Uncategorized Archives November 2022 October 2022 August 2022 April 2022 Contact us Deep Learning Indaba Strengthening African Machine Learning info@deeplearningindaba.com Indaba 2022 Location and Venue Sponsorship IndabaX Awards Mentorship Blog About Copyright © Deep Learning Indaba 2017 - 2023. All Rights Reserved.
