Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Q: Which company raised $50 million? A: question-and-answer site Quora Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Current Facebook employees aren’t the only ones making deals this week. Two former Facebook execs raised $50 million at a $400 million valuation for question-and-answer site Quora , the Wall Street Journal reports.
Adam D’Angelo and Charlie Cheever founded Quora after leaving Facebook in its early days. The site is a slicker version of Yahoo Answers and allows multiple people to edit answers for helpfulness and accuracy. Quora hopes to gather as much information as possible to create a large database of information, similar to Wikipedia. The company competes with a ton of other question-and-answer services, such as the Ask Reddit subreddit, Ask on Google+ , and even Facebook Questions.
The funding round came largely from the Facebook family. Facebook board member Peter Thiel led the round, and former Facebook employee and partner at Northbridge Venture Partners Jonathan Heiliger participated. Benchmark Capital also contributed to the round.
Founded in 2009, Quora raised $11 million at a $86 million valuation in 2010. Since then, it’s released an iPhone app to find location-specific answers.
Question mark image via Flickr user Michael Coghlan VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
