Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: Only 27% of orgs have observability over their full stack Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
New Relic’s 2022 Observability Forecast is the industry’s largest survey of IT practitioners and decision-makers to understand the current state of observability.
 Their definition of observability is the ability to measure how a system is performing and identify issues and errors based on its external outputs.
The 2022 Observability Forecast offers a detailed view of how this practice is shaping engineering and the technologies of the future. Of those who had mature observability practices, 100% indicated that observability improves revenue retention by deepening their understanding of customer behaviors compared to the 34% whose practices were less mature.
Based on the report’s definition of full-stack observability, only 27% of survey respondents’ organizations have achieved it. And an even smaller percentage — 3% — said that their organization has already prioritized/achieved full-stack observability. Full-stack observability, as used in this report, is achieved by organizations that deploy specific combinations of observability capabilities, including customer experience monitoring/DEM (front-end), services monitoring, log management and environment monitoring (back-end).
Observability and outages The data supports a strong correlation between achieving or prioritizing full-stack observability and experiencing fewer outages, improved outage detection rates, and improved resolution. For example, 34% of respondents who indicated that they had already prioritized or achieved full-stack observability were also less likely to experience the most frequent high-business-impact outages (once per week or more), compared to the 52% who had not.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! In addition, 68% of respondents who said they had already prioritized or achieved full-stack observability also said it takes less than 30 minutes to detect high-business-impact outages, compared to the 44% that had not.
The ideal The research implies that the ideal state of observability is one where engineering teams monitor the entire tech stack in all stages of the software development life cycle, employ mature observability practice characteristics, and have unified telemetry data and a unified dashboard or visualization of that data — ideally in a single, consolidated platform. Nearly half of all respondents (47%) said they prefer a single, consolidated platform, yet just 2% said they use one tool for observability.
More than half (52%) of respondents, including 57% of C-suite executives, expected observability budgets to increase over the next year.
Respondents foresee their organizations needing observability for a variety of trending technologies, including artificial intelligence (AI), 5G, and Web3.
 Looking out to 2025, the report estimates that nearly all expect to deploy observability capabilities like network monitoring, security monitoring, log management and more.
The report is also notable in that its raw data is open and available for public download.
Methodology For the 2022 Observability Forecast, New Relic surveyed 1,614 IT professionals across 14 countries in North America, Europe and the Asia Pacific region between March and April 2022.
Read the full report from New Relic.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
