Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 85% of SREs say that automation is ‘imperative’ for innovation Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Semiconductors are heart of digital electronics.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
A new report by Dynatrace indicates that as organizations continue to evolve their digital transformation roadmaps, the proliferation of new applications, services and software products being launched and updated introduce mounting complexities in cloud ecosystems and IT infrastructures.
Enter site reliability engineering (SRE). Businesses today are increasingly turning to SRE teams to drive greater alignment between development teams and to define the best practices that will enable various teams within an organization to automate processes at scale and ensure goals for business, security, quality, and performance, are all met equally.
Despite this growing reliance, SREs are still bogged down by manual labor and large amounts of time spent addressing the security vulnerabilities and application failures that come with the multiplying number of applications, microservices and software products that expand existing cloud ecosystems. That’s why 85% of SREs report that the scalability of SRE practices will be extremely dependent on the availability of automation and AIops capabilities. Both are needed to accelerate innovation and transformation while alleviating some of the processes that typically require time-consuming manual effort.
Minimizing time spent on these efforts will help SREs evolve into the more critical role businesses are giving them when it comes to digital transformation strategy. In fact, 88% of SREs surveyed claim to have a better understanding and recognition of the strategic responsibility that comes with their role in comparison to three years ago, especially as organizations tackle new challenges including the growth of new technologies, languages, platforms and tools in cloud-native delivery that’ve created an explosion of complexity.
The findings are based on a global survey commissioned by Dynatrace and conducted by Coleman Parkes, which gathered responses from 450 SREs in large enterprises across various regions, including 150 in the U.S., 150 in EMEA, and 150 in Asia Pacific.
Read the full report by Dynatrace.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
