Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft’s new research lab studies developer productivity and well-being Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Man and 2 laptop screen with program code.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Microsoft has unveiled a new research initiative designed to “discover, improve, and amplify” developer work and well-being.
Announced at Microsoft’s annual developer-focused Build conference, the new Developer Velocity Lab (DVL) will conduct “socio-technical investigations” spanning productivity, community, and general well-being.
The lab, which will seek input from across Microsoft’s various units, including GitHub, Visual Studio, and Microsoft Research — as well as external contributors — aims to look at new ways to measure and enhance developer productivity; highlight how developers collaborate and share knowledge around software projects; and “investigate the intersections of happiness, satisfaction, and personal value” in relation to software development.
Software company With software pretty much devouring the world — every company is now a software company , as Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella has often said — improving efficiency within developer teams has become a key focus. GitHub, for example, recently rolled out a bunch of new mobile notification controls to boost developer productivity. Elsewhere, a slew of startups, such as Jellyfish , a platform that aligns engineering work with business objectives, and Tines , which automates repetitive workflows for non-developers, have secured significant funds to enhance the output of their developer teams.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The first paper to emerge from DVL was published in March and titled: “The Space of Developer Productivity: There’s more to it than you think.” Here, researchers from GitHub, Microsoft Research, and the University of Victoria posit that developer productivity can’t be measured by a single metric and extends beyond an “individual’s activity levels or the efficiency of the engineering systems relied on to ship software.” Microsoft and its GitHub subsidiary have a track record of producing research papers focused on developers, something DVL aims to build on.
“DVL will extend this model by making the research available and accessible to broad audiences — including developers, leaders, enterprises, and OSS (open source software) communities — through additional content, such as short papers, assessments, and videos,” Dr. Nicole Forsgren, GitHub’s VP of research and strategy, told VentureBeat. “We want to get creative so that our research can be easily and quickly usable by many people.” Open source Microsoft’s new lab aligns with a number of other recent trends, such as the myriad low-code/no-code platforms that have emerged to democratize software development, as well as the continued growth of open source tech in enterprises and beyond.
Indeed, Microsoft has previously noted that open source is now the accepted model for cross-company collaboration, allowing the tech giants of the world to bypass much of the traditional lawyering in favor of quickly joining forces on projects. DVL’s most recent paper , published this month, looks at the motivations and challenges of contributing to open source software projects for social good.
“In addition to including open source developers and communities as part of our research agenda, DVL embraces an open source ethos,” Forsgren added. “For example, in most cases we will publish in open access journals or open-source our papers, allowing for input from other researchers and organizations to build off of. Additionally, we plan to support and share anonymized, curated datasets in the future as we work toward more open models.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
