Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Rock Health backs eight new startups, signs three new corporate partners Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Digital health accelerator and venture investor Rock Health is busier than ever as more startups and large industry players turn to it for funding, advice, and partnership.
San Francisco-based Rock Health announced today that it has added eight new startups to its portfolio and has landed deals with three large corporate partners. The new corporate partners include pharmaceuticals and medical devices giant Abbott, insurer Blue Shield of California, and the health practice of the Deloitte consulting firm.
The new startups are addressing a variety of healthcare pain points, including chronic disease, neurological disorders, biotech issues, and health data privacy.
Health startups have little trouble finding areas in the U.S.’s inefficient and costly healthcare delivery system to improve upon, and with the Affordable Care Act as a catalyst, many startups are finding the funding they need to work toward solutions.
Rock Health managing director Malay Gandhi says that he and his colleagues expect to evaluate more than a thousand digital health startups as potential investments this year.
Rock Health’s latest startups: Accountable is an online platform that helps companies handle personal health data securely and in compliance with federal HIPAA laws.
Acumen is in the process of building a telemedicine platform that will let doctors evaluate, assess, and manage neurological disorders via patient video.
Aptible provides a development platform in which digital health companies can build apps and services that are HIPAA privacy-compliant. Aptible, which is also backed by Y Combinator, launched this month.
Benchling provides a cloud-based data management and collaboration platform for life science research and development.
TelePharm provides a web and mobile service that allows pharmacists to verify and approve prescriptions, and consults with patients in locations where no pharmacist is physically present. Telepharm recently raised a $2.5 million investment round led by medical tech investor John Pappajohn and Iowa state Board of Regents president Bruce Rastetter.
Welkin Health provides daily coaching to diabetes patients via a mobile app. The company has recently contracted with two healthcare providers that plan to prescribe the app to diabetes patients.
An additional two startups have joined the accelerator’s portfolio, but the companies are still in “stealth” and will be announced later.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
