Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Zipy.ai, which accelerates software debugging for enterprises, raises $2.8M Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
San Francisco-based Zipy.ai has raised $2.8 million in seed funding to accelerate software debugging for enterprises worldwide.
Today, software development cycles have skyrocketed. Companies are pushing updates occasionally to improve the experience of their customers. But, on some days, these updates also break the product, affecting not just the experience of end-users but also bleeding plenty of money for the organization.
In response, support, product and development teams rush to figure out what went wrong on the customers’ end and why — a task that involves stitching data across multiple tools and logs and often takes up hours. Plus, if the customer does not notice or report the bug, the issue may go undetected in the code and affect others.
Zipy.ai brings customer observability Founded in 2020 by Vaishalini Paliwal, Zipy.ai solves this challenge by providing enterprises with a unified platform to react to customer issues just as they take place.
When something breaks in a workflow, the solution captures the data points and notifies the concerned team on Slack. Then, when a team member interacts with the notification, they are directed to Zipy dashboard which showcases everything associated with the bug , starting from what exactly the customer did to the problem they faced and the exact line of code failure. Using this interface, developer and product teams can easily replay the user session, trace down the problem, and work on a fix, without wasting time on scouring through the data or waiting for the customer to file the bug report first.
“Most of us have lived this pain point for a very long time as software engineers. We are very excited about scaling and building on the larger vision of bringing intelligent customer observability to help software teams solve code issues smartly, quickly and proactively. Behind Zipy is a very passionate product and engineering team who has experienced this problem first hand,” Paliwal said.
The company launched the product less than a month ago and has already roped in over 100 customers. Zipy.ai was also ranked number one on ProductHunt.
Growing need for debugging and observability Owing to rapid digitization and the need to stay ahead of the competition, companies have become bullish on frequent release cycles. This has spurred demand for tools tackling various aspects of the app development ecosystem. Recently, software reliability platform Last9 , which handles software reliability, raised $11 million in series A funding and Turkey-based Altogic , which automates backend development for apps, secured $1 million. Other players in the space include Firebase , Amplify, LogicMonitor and AppDynamics.
As the demand grows, Paliwal plans to scale Zipy.ai, taking the product’s intelligent customer observability capabilities to more enterprise software teams. The company will deploy the latest round, which was led by Blume Ventures and operator-led venture capital firm Together Fund, to strengthen the platform’s technology and make bug solving more proactive, intelligent and tech stack agnostic.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
