Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Data scientists needed: Why this career is exploding right now Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
If you’re looking into a career as a data scientist, you may soon become one of the most sought-after people in your industry.
Given that job posting for data scientists increased 15,000 percent between 2011 and 2012 alone, according to FICO, if you’re not looking for a career as a data scientist, then maybe you should be.
Editor’s note: Our upcoming DataBeat/Data Science Summit , Dec. 4-Dec. 5 in Redwood City, will focus on the most compelling opportunities for businesses in the area of big data analytics and data science.
Register today! Data scientists are the people who can understand and provide meaning to the piles and piles of data that companies collect and keep nowadays. “Big data” is the buzzword that represents those piles — tons of information about customers, products, and habits, that may one day help people sell advertising, build better merchandise, or even save lives.
But they can’t do any of that if there isn’t a data scientist who can look at the data and say, “This is important. Check out this trend.” Between 2010 and 2020, the data scientist career path is projected to increase by 18.7 percent, beat only by video game designers. The big data industry is expected to be a 53.4 billion industry by 2016, as per the infographic below.
And if you’re only just deciding on a college education, Stanford, Northwestern University, and the University of California San Diego offer data science degrees. UC Berkeley just added a data science course to its virtual classroom.
Check out the infographic below for more on why we need more data scientists and why the market is so worth getting into: VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
