Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages EMC acquires database startup Greenplum Anthony Ha Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Infrastructure giant EMC just announced that it plans to acquire Greenplum , a company offering database software.
San Mateo, Calif.-based Greenplum was founded in 2003 with the goal of tackling the growing demands of storing and analyzing business data. It says that its customers include divisions of NASDAQ and the New York Stock Exchange, Skype, Equifax, T-Mobile, and Fox Interactive Media. [ Update: Greenplum, or rather its previous incarnation Metapa, goes back at least as far as 2001.
] Greenplum’s investors include Dawntreader Ventures, EDF Ventures, Hudson Ventures, Meritech Capital Partners, Mission Ventures, SAP Ventures, Sierra Ventures, and Sun Microsystems. The acquisition price was not disclosed, but it was reportedly all-cash.
EMC says the company will form a new data computing product division within the larger firm.
In an open letter to customers , Greenplum executives write: EMC and Greenplum bring extraordinary potential to customers at the intersection of big data and sophisticated analytics. As technology and business partners, EMC and Greenplum witness daily the enthusiasm with which customers embrace how together, we impact their businesses in very tangible, positive, and meaningful ways. The technology speaks for itself. What energizes us most about this acquisition is EMC’s ability to open new doors of opportunity and invest in the future we all so passionately believe in: The power of data.
[ image via Virtual Geek ] VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
