Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Cloudera claims its new ‘all-in-one’ data lakehouse cuts ownership costs by up to 35% Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Santa Clara-based data company, Cloudera , today announced the launch of Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) One, a new all-in-one data lakehouse software-as-a-service (SaaS).
The offering complements the 2019-launched flagship CDP product and provides enterprises with a single, centralized data platform that includes built-in cloud compute, cloud storage, machine learning (ML), streaming data analytics and enterprise-grade security. It’s designed to deliver capabilities for the entire data lifecycle, enabling every enterprise user to perform ad-hoc and highly customizable analysis, as well as exploratory data science on any type of data (structured or unstructured ).
This ultimately gives enterprise users a way to get faster and easier access to mission-critical business insights.
“Empowering everyone in your business to get the real-time insights they need to make the right decisions requires building a truly modern data architecture ( lakehouse ) in the cloud,” Ram Venkatesh, CTO at Cloudera, said. “Many businesses don’t have the resources, time or expertise to make this transformation happen. CDP One [shaves] months or even years from implementation timelines and [provides] comprehensive data security.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Cloudera’s continuous optimization The all-in-one lakehouse not only provides a unified service to reduce enterprises’ time to insights – making data users more productive – but also cuts down the total cost of ownership (TCO) and risk. This is because the platform is continuously optimized for health, security, compliance and performance, without roping in a specialized cloud, security or monitoring operations staff.
According to Cloudera, in comparison to do-it-yourself cloud solutions, CDP One reduces the overall TCO by 20% to 35% when including the initial setup and operations of platform ops, secops and support. The company also claims that the service uses the same Cloudera technology that was rated better for analytic and operational use cases than point product vendors or point services from hyperscalers.
The data lakehouse is the latest paradigm shift in the data industry, where capabilities of both data warehouse and lake are offered through a single platform. Companies like Databricks, Snowflake and Dremio (which recently launched a free lakehouse ) are racing in this segment. However, according to Cloudera, most of its competitors in this space solve only part of the problem or lock users into a limited number of analytic tools – which is not the case here.
CDP One availability The new offering is currently accessible to select enterprises, including travel management company CWT, and will become widely available later this year. It’s deployed on a private, single-tenant cloud infrastructure managed by Cloudera.
“We needed to build a data lakehouse to enable more users to run analytics on their complex and sensitive data, but [who] didn’t have the right expertise to manage it or time to hire additional resources,” Gordon Coale, senior director and enterprise architect for data at CWT, said. “CDP One rapidly delivered secure and compliant global data science and advanced analytics. The solution was ready to accept data in just two days, and some use cases went into production in just four weeks. And we did not need any new staff to make this happen.” The global demand for solutions like CDP One is only expected to increase as the volume of enterprise data grows across multiple cloud environments and on-premises locations. According to IDC, the amount of data in the world will grow from 33 Zettabytes (Zb) in 2018 to 175 Zb by 2025. That’s 175 trillion USB sticks with a 1GB capacity.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
