Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Aisera embraces Microsoft AI copilot for advanced enterprise service experience Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Today, Aisera , a provider of conversational AI tooling for customer and employee service, extended its partnership with Microsoft to deliver an AI copilot.
The technology will leverage integration with Azure OpenAI service, which includes GPT-4 , and help enterprises optimize service experiences with behavior-driven personalization and smoother interactions.
The new AI copilot is also expected to cut down costs as more and more companies look to meet customer and employee service expectations with limited resources and reduced budgets.
AI copilot to enhance Aisera’s offering Aisera drives its business with an AI service experience platform (AISX) that incorporates different domain-specific conversational AI tools for employee and customer service, as well as AIOps.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! With the latest engagement, AISX will get support for the new AI copilot — backed by Microsoft Azure OpenAI service. This way, Aisera will bring together the latest ChatGPT and generative AI capabilities with its industry- and domain-specific large language models (LLMs), enabling enterprises to improve self-service, productivity, user engagement and personalization while decreasing resolution times.
>>Follow VentureBeat’s ongoing generative AI coverage<< “Our partnership with Microsoft is to help deliver the ChatGPT experience to organizations that desire human-like conversations built on their domain-specific and industry-specific dictionary — an interaction that is personalized and contextually relevant to that enterprise,” Muddu Sudhakar, CEO and cofounder at Aisera, told VentureBeat.
“This also mitigates hallucinations and accuracy issues with general-purpose models like ChatGPT and GPT-3/4. True, enterprises can fine-tune these models, but this requires having a strong team of data scientists. Yet enterprises usually do not have the staff for this — or the time to create these models,” Sudhakar said.
Using the copilot, users can ask natural language questions via a chatbot in Teams, mobile app or voice and have it understand and generate answers that are contextually relevant to the organization. The technology is poised to handle many of the tasks for tier 1 and tier 2 support and auto-resolve user requests, lowering operating expenses and reducing workload for overwhelmed support desks.
“Employees can ask what 401(k) funds are available to them, compare the funds and then change their allocation — all through our solution. Customers can inquire about their order status, make updates to their account or simply inquire about return policies. Lastly, organizations can benefit from copilot in auto-generating knowledge articles based on customer support logs or IT help desk tickets,” Sudhakar said.
Results so far While the AI copilot has just been publicly announced, Aisera notes that multiple companies have already tested it, including Chegg and Gap.
Chegg, in particular, has seen notable benefits such as 75% auto-resolution of support tickets, 73% improvement in employee satisfaction and 68% improved employee productivity for the service desk.
The move adds Aisera to the growing list of enterprises leveraging OpenAI’s technology to enhance their product. Recently, analytic database Kinetica announced an integration with ChatGPT for conversational querying, while New Relic launched Grok , an assistant powered by OpenAI LLMs for enhancing observability. Microsoft itself is in the process of adding AI copilot across its suite of enterprise productivity tools, including Teams.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
