Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages GPU database startup MapD raises $25 million led by NEA Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn MapD platform Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
MapD Technologies , a startup that provides businesses with a data analytics service backed by graphics processing units (GPUs), announced today that it has secured an additional $25 million.
The startup combines a GPU engine with visual analytics, allowing data analysts and data scientists to run queries on billions of rows of data. Initially, MapD was only available as a cloud service on top of Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud, Microsoft Azure, and IBM SoftLayer. But MapD is now also available as on-premises software.
“Organizations are struggling to keep up with the exponential rise in data volumes they are facing using CPU compute,” wrote MapD’s founder and CEO Todd Mostak, in an email to VentureBeat. “This is driving a huge uptick in adoption of GPUs, and we are pushing to broaden that adoption curve to encompass analytic SQL and visualization workloads.” MapD claims to have dozens of customers across different sectors, such as energy, financial services, and retail. According to Mostak, Verizon uses MapD to accelerate its log analytics workloads, the U.S. government deploys the software to query and visualize geospatial data, and a New York City-based hedge fund uses it to find tradable insights. MapD sells annual subscriptions with support contracts.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Competitors include the very companies on which MapD runs its cloud service. AWS offers databases and a business intelligence tool, for example. IBM, Oracle, and others also pose competition in the database and analytics areas. Aside from these, Mostak names smaller GPU players like Kinetica, SQream, and BlazingDB as companies competing in this sector.
New Enterprise Associates (NEA) led today’s round. Existing investors Nvidia, Vanedge Capital, and Verizon Ventures also joined. To date, MapD has raised a total of $37 million. It will use the new capital for hiring in sales and marketing and to further development of the product.
MapD was founded in 2013 and is based in San Francisco, where it currently employs approximately 30 people.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
