Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft adds Image Creator to Bing, plus GPT-4 now available in Azure OpenAI Service Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Image Credit: Microsoft Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
What would a week be like without generative AI news from Microsoft? I can hardly imagine. Today, Microsoft announced that it is bringing Image Creator to the new Bing preview, and new AI-powered visual Stories and updated Knowledge Cards to all Bing users.
Bing Image Creator, which will be available starting today in the new Bing preview on desktop and mobile, as well as in Edge, is powered by an “advanced” version of OpenAI’s DALL-E model (Hmm…is DALL-E 3 on the way?). By typing in a description of an image, providing additional context like location or activity, and choosing an art style, Image Creator will generate an image.
Microsoft: Bing is only browser with ‘integrated AI-powered image generator’ Microsoft says this makes Bing the first and only browser with an “integrated AI-powered image generator.” Meanwhile, Stories, the company says, is an AI-powered visual summary, which users can click through to learn more about the topic they are searching. This, Microsoft says, provides a “more engaging way to search and interact with content, offering images and short videos for easy consumption.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Finally, Knowledge Cards 2.0 is an AI-powered infographic-inspired experience that has been updated to include interactive, dynamic content like charts, graphs, timelines and visual stories.
GPT-4 is available in Azure OpenAI Service Today, Microsoft also announced that GPT-4 is available in Azure OpenAI Service.
 As part of the preview, customers and partners can join the waitlist to access GPT-4 and start building it into their own applications and services.
In the blog post, Microsoft shared testimonials from customers about GPT-4 in Azure OpenAI Service: “Coursera is using Azure OpenAI Service to create a new AI-powered learning experience on its platform, enabling learners to get high-quality and personalized support throughout their learning journeys,” said Mustafa Furniturewala, senior vice president of engineering, Coursera. “Together, Azure OpenAI Service and the new GPT-4 model will help millions around the world learn even more effectively on Coursera.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
