Indaba IndabaX Awards Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Indaba Abantu Reports Past Editions 2017 2018 2019 2020 Indaba IndabaX Awards Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Indaba Abantu Reports Past Editions 2017 2018 2019 2020 IndabaX: Uganda 26 Jul - 30 Jul 2021 Number of Attendees: Location: Kampala, Uganda ( view map ) Contact Details of Organizers: Bruno Ssekiwere ( brunocruise2004@gmail.com) Claire Babirye ( clarybits68@gmail.com ) Gloria Namanya ( 7gloria@gmail.com) Eugene Swinnerstone ( eugene.swinnerstone@gmail.com ) Allan Ninyesiga ( aninyesiga@utamu.ac.ug ) Timothy Kivumbi ( timokivumbi@gmail.com ) Denise Nsubuga ( nsubugadenise@gmail.com ) Jean Amutukwatse ( jeanamukwatse@gmail.com ) Samiiha Nalwoga ( nsamiiha@gmail.com ) Irene Nandutu ( irenenanduttu@gmail.com ) Simon Peter Kabiito ( simonkabiito@gmail.com ) Event website: www.indabaxug.github.io Host Institution Uganda Technology and Management University Schedule 26 Jul 2021 09:00 - 10:00 Python Programming Intro (Allan Ninyesiga) 10:00 - 11:00 Machine Learning Fundamentals (Claire Babirye) 11:00 - 11:30 Coffee Break 11:30 - 13:00 Supervised Learning (Claire Babirye) 13:00 - 14:30 Lunch Break 14:30 - 16:00 Unsupervised Learning (Irene Nandutu) 27 Jul 2021 09:00 - 10:00 Mathematics for Machine Learning (Alexandre Galashov) 10:00 - 11:00 Deep Learning Fundamentals 11:00 - 11:30 Coffee Break 11:30 - 13:00 Deep Feedforward Networks (Dr. Amal Rannen-Triki) 13:00 - 14:30 Lunch Break 14:30 - 16:00 Convolutional Neural Networks (Akera Benjamin) 28 Jul 2021 09:00 - 10:00 From Linear to Non- Linear Models (Dr. Ulrich Paquet) 10:00 - 11:00 Social Media Data Analysis (David) 11:00 - 11:30 Coffee Break 11:30 - 13:00 Reinforcement Learning (Benjamin Rosman) 13:00 - 14:30 Lunch Break 14:30 - 16:00 Recurrent Neural Networks (Lisa) 29 Jul 2021 08:30 - 20:00 Hackathon 30 Jul 2021 Conference List of Speakers Prof. Benjamin Rosman Prof. Rosman is a researcher who specialises in mobile intelligent autonomous systems. He is also a visiting lecturer at the School of Computer Science and Applied Mathematics at the University of the Witwatersrand, where he leads the Robotics, Autonomous Intelligence and Learning laboratory.
Dr. Neema Mduma (PhD) Dr. Neema Mduma is a computer scientist and a lecturer at the Nelson Mandela African Institution of Science and Technology. Neema is passionate about education especially girls, and during her PhD studies she developed a ML model called BakiShule which aims at preventing students from dropping out of school. Also, Neema organizes free trainings and workshops in secondary schools with the focus of inspiring and exposing girls to science and technology careers particularly data science, machine learning, and artificial intelligence. Neema’s efforts towards women in science has been recognized and she was given an award from the L’Oréal UNESCO as 20 young talents in Sub-Saharan Africa for the year 2020.
Dr. Kris Sankaran (PhD) Dr. Kris currently an Assistant Professor in the Department of Statistics at UW Madison​. I study statistical techniques for discovery, dimensionality reduction. Computational statistics and machine learning to better understand how to visualize and draw inferences from complex data.
Dr. Ernest Mwebaze (PhD) Dr. Ernest is passionate about finding and implementing better, simpler and cost-effective solutions to address some of the prevailing problems in developing countries. Particularly I am interested in problems that can be solved by the application of computational techniques. As such my passion is research, particularly in the varied fields of Artificial Intelligence - specifically machine learning and computer vision and how to apply these in such a way as to obtain an optimal solution to real-world problems in developing countries.
Dr. Joyce Nabende (PhD) Dr. Joyce is a Lecturer in the Department of Computer Science at the School of Computing and Information Technology, Makerere University. She is also the scientific head of the Artificial Intelligence Lab and senior research fellow in the Software Systems Center at Makerere University. Dr. Joyce obtained a PhD in Computer Science from Eindhoven University of Technology, Department of Mathematics and Computer Science in the Architecture of Information Systems group under the supervision of prof. dr. ir. W. M.P. van der Aalst and Dr. M. Westergaard. Dr. Joyce's PhD study involved investigating the use of business process simulation and process mining to analyse the resource perspective of business processes.
Pascal G. Bernard Passionate business and technical leader with 15 years of multi-sector experience in oil and gas, finance, e-commerce and advertising, and marketing, I offer unique expertise in Data Science (Machine Learning and Data Engineering), Cloud Data Architecture, Data Strategy and Management, Digital Transformation and Innovation, BI and Analytics, and AI/Data Governance.
Daniel Mutembesa Mutembesa is a Project Head & Lead Researcher for an Adhoc Surveillance Project focusing on the smart-phone application tool kits that has been developed by the mcrops team to facilitate and provide automated diagnosis and improved vector & symptom measurement for Cassava viral diesease and pests it also looks at crowdsourced Crop health data through an Ad-hoc Surveillance system. Daniel is also an Instructor of Oracle & Database Systems Eng. at the Department for Professional Skills Development, Makerere University and an Assistant Tutor of Dr. Ernest Mwebaze at the Department of Computer Science College of Computing & information systems at the same University.
Benjamin Akera Benjamin is a Software Engineer by profession. Currently a Machine Learning Engineer with the R&D team at Sama working mainly on Computer Vision. Previously, I was a research intern at Mila - Quebec AI Institute, working under the supervision of Prof. Yoshua Bengio on applied Machine Learning for climate change mitigation as well as humanitarian applications of AI. And before that, I worked with the Makerere University AI Lab in Uganda.
Morine Amutorine Morine is a computer science professional with a background in software engineering and 3 years of experience in data analysis and visualizations. She is passionate about data innovation to support sustainable development.
Dr. Philip Ouma Ayoo (PhD) Dr. Philip Ouma Ayoo is the Dean School of Computing and Engineering and a Senior Lecturer in the Department of Information Systems and Technology at Uganda Technology And Management University (UTAMU).
Claire Babirye Claire is currently a lecturer at UTAMU and Research Assistant, AI LAB Makerere University. Her background is in computer science specializing in Artificial Intelligence and Network Security. She carries a great enthusiasm for data science and machine learning with a zeal of harnessing the potential of AI in improving service delivery. She is also part of the Artificial Intelligence and Data Science Research Lab Makerere University as a mentor and a research assistant.
Timothy Kivumbi Timothy has more than 5 years in the field of Information Technology and experience in major areas of Computing, Networks. He is currently working for Uganda Technology and Management University (UTAMU) as a Lecturer in the School of Computing and Engineering. He has growing interest in the areas of Machine Learning, Data Science, Cloud Computing and Blockchain Technology.
Paul Kennedy Currently working for Zindi Africa, a new data science competition platform building the AI and machine learning ecosystem in Africa Alexandre Galashov Alexandre, Research Engineer at DeepMind working on Transfer and Continual learning problems in Reinforcement Learning and Language. Prior to DeepMind, Alexandre studied Mathematics & Computer Science at Ecole Polytechnique and Novosibirsk State University.
Dr. Ulrich Paquet (PhD) Dr. Ulrich is a co-founder of a crazy but wonderful movement to help strengthen machine learning in Africa, the Deep Learning Indaba. He is also currently working with DEEPMIND as a research scientist. Dr. Ulrich is also honoured to wear the hat of extraordinary professor of applied mathematics at the University of Stellenbosch.
Lisa Wang Lisa is a Research Engineer at DeepMind, where she develops machine learning methods for graph-structured data. Previously, she worked on quantization techniques at Google Research to accelerate and compress neural networks, and decrease their power usage. She also built computer vision algorithms at Orbital Insight to turn satellite imagery into maps, e.g. to help fight illegal deforestation. Lisa holds a BS and MS in Computer Science with a concentration in Artificial Intelligence from Stanford University.
Dr. Amal Rannen Triki Amal Rannen-Triki obtained her PhD from KU Leuven where she worked on many topics including regularization, continual learning and specialised loss functions under the supervision of Matthew B. Blaschko. She is currently a research scientist at Deepmind and is interested in various subjects around deep learning including continual learning and understanding learning dynamics. Amal is also passionate about strengthening machine learning in Africa, and is working towards this goal with the Deep Learning Indaba.
Contact us Deep Learning Indaba Strengthening African Machine Learning info@deeplearningindaba.com Indaba 2021 IndabaX Awards Mentorship Blog About Copyright © Deep Learning Indaba 2017 - 2023. All Rights Reserved.
