Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google says goodbye to passwords with passkeys launch Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Note with the german word for password on a computer keyboard Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Today, Google announced that it is rolling out support for passkeys across Google accounts on all major platforms. As of today, users can now use passkeys for a passwordless sign-in experience on apps and websites with fingerprinting, facial recognition or a local pin without the need to enter a password or complete 2-step verification (2SV).
To configure a passkey, users can visit a website or app, sign-in via with their existing username and password, then opt to create a passkey that can then be stored in a solution like Google Password Manager to login in the future.
Unlike passwords, passkeys can’t be stolen, which makes them resistant to credential theft, phishing, and social engineering scams. As a result, broader support for passwordless sign-in options will make Google accounts more resistant to identity-based attacks.
“Passkeys are a more convenient and safer alternative to passwords,” Google software engineers Arnar Birgisson and Diana K. Smetters write in the official blog post. “Even the most savvy users are often misled into giving them up during phishing attempts.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Password-based security inefficient for modern enterprise The release comes as the weaknesses of password-based security are becoming increasingly apparent, with hackers leaking more than 721 million passwords online last year. Vendors including Microsoft and Apple have committed to developing a common passwordless sign-in standard.
While existing technologies like multi-factor authentication (MFA) have helped to enhance online account security, they haven’t fully addressed the risk of credential theft due to their susceptibility to SIM swap attacks that hijack the SMS verification process, and the inconvenience of adding additional authentication steps for end users.
Passwordless login options like passkeys that enable users to log in with biometric data provide a user-friendly alternative that decreases the likelihood of a successful account takeover attempt.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
