Search @mouseenter="selectedIndex = index + '-' + key"> Search Result Tech Science Life Social Good Entertainment SHOP THE BEST Travel Product Reviews DEALS Newsletters VIDEOS > IBM predicted Amazon Go back in 2006 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Flipboard Amazon's splashy video for Amazon Go — an all-seeing, all-knowing store where customers can grab items, toss 'em in a bag or pocket and just walk out without ever waiting in line — has obvious appeal. So obvious, in fact, that another tech company proposed the exact same concept more than 10 years ago.
SEE ALSO: An IBM ad showcasing a smart store got major circulation on the airwaves in 2006 (when YouTube was nascent). It features a nefarious-looking character in a trench coat wandering the aisles of a supermarket, stuffing his pockets with items as other patrons and security guards shoot him looks of suspicion. As he exits the store through what looks like a security gate that "flashes" him, the guard calls out, "Excuse me, sir!" The man stops and turns. The guard grabs a piece of paper dispensed from the gate: "You forgot your receipt." The ad, created by the agency BBCD , is more than a decade old, so it likely wasn't predicting the same technologies that make Amazon Go possible, those being machine learning, computer vision and advanced sensors. Instead IBM was showing "future store" vision powered by RFID, a tech in widespread use today. An IBM white paper from March 2009 discusses, among other things, how RFID readers positioned throughout a store could detect movements of products within it.
RFID is used in retail, but its presence is all but invisible to the customer, and most stores today still have a traditional checkout. We'll see in 2017 if the new technologies that power Amazon Go can finally bring IBM's vision of a "smart store" to reality.
Topics Amazon Pete Pachal was Mashable’s Tech Editor and had been at the company from 2011 to 2019. He covered the technology industry, from self-driving cars to self-destructing smartphones.Pete has covered consumer technology in print and online for more than a decade. Originally from Edmonton, Canada, Pete first uploaded himself into technology journalism at Sound & Vision magazine in 1999. Pete also served as Technology Editor at Syfy, creating the channel's technology site, DVICE (now Blastr), out of some rusty HTML code and a decompiled coat hanger. He then moved on to PCMag, where he served as the site's News Director.Pete has been featured on Fox News, the Today Show, Bloomberg, CNN, CNBC and CBC.Pete holds degrees in journalism from the University of King's College in Halifax and engineering from the University of Alberta in Edmonton. His favorite Doctor Who monsters are the Cybermen.
Loading...
Subscribe TECH SCIENCE LIFE SOCIAL GOOD ENTERTAINMENT BEST PRODUCTS DEALS About Mashable Contact Us We're Hiring Newsletters Sitemap About Ziff Davis Privacy Policy Terms of Use Advertise Accessibility Do Not Sell My Personal Information AdChoices
