Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 4 in 5 companies have experienced a cloud security incident Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Red Shield Cloud Computing Cybersecurity Technology 3D Rendering Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
New research from cybersecurity company, Venafi , found that 81% of companies report that they have suffered a security incident in the cloud over the last year. And almost half (45%) report that their organization experienced at least four incidents.
The research looked to highlight the increased operational risk caused by companies migrating more of their applications to the cloud due to the complexity of cloud-native environments.
In fact, Venafi also found that companies currently host 41% of their applications on the cloud. That percentage is expected to rise to 57% throughout the next 18 months. As it rises, the need for robust cloud security will rise too.
With the complexity created by the cloud, machine identities have become a rich hunting ground for threat actors targeting the cloud. Every container — including Kubernetes cluster and microservices — needs an authenticated machine identity to communicate securely, such as a TLS certificate. Security and operational risks increase dramatically if one is compromised or misconfigured.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Venafi’s research also revealed that there is no clear industry standard for which the internal team is currently responsible for securing the cloud. Most commonly, this falls under the remit of enterprise security teams (25%), followed by operations teams responsible for cloud infrastructure (23%), a collaborative effort shared between multiple teams (22%), developers writing cloud applications (16%) and DevSecOps teams (10%).
There is also not a clear consensus among security decision-makers about who should be responsible for securing the cloud. Cloud infrastructure operations teams and enterprise security teams (both 24%) are among the most popular, followed by sharing responsibility across multiple teams (22%), developers writing cloud applications (16%) and DevSecOps teams (14%).
New approaches to security must make use of a control plane to embed machine identity management into developer workloads, allowing teams to protect the business without slowing production.
For its research, Venafi polled 1,101 security decision-makers at companies with over 1,000 employees. Twenty-four percent of those surveyed were at companies with more than 10,000 employees.
Read the full report from Venafi.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
