Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google and Microsoft prepare dueling generative AI debuts Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Google and Microsoft , in separate surprise announcements, confirmed they plan to offer dueling generative AI debuts over the next two days.
Today, Google unveiled a new ChatGPT-like chatbot named Bard , as the company races to catch up in the wake of ChatGPT’s massive viral success (growing faster than TikTok, apparently). In a blog post , CEO Sundar Pichai said Bard is now open to “trusted testers,” with plans to make it available to the public “in the coming weeks.” >>Follow VentureBeat’s ongoing ChatGPT coverage<< In addition, the company announced a streaming event called Live from Paris focused on “Search, Maps and beyond,” to be livestreamed on YouTube at 8:30 am ET on February 8th. According to the description: “We’re reimagining how people search for, explore and interact with information, making it more natural and intuitive than ever before to find what you need.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Microsoft to hold in-person Redmond event tomorrow Meanwhile, just minutes after Google’s announcement, Microsoft shared an announcement that it will be holding an in-person event at its Redmond headquarters tomorrow at 1 pm ET.
Microsoft is expected to unveil its long-awaited integration of generative AI from OpenAI into its search engine Bing — which supposedly will be powered by the brand-new GPT-4.
Those who spied screenshots of the new integration noted the presence of a chat box rather than a search bar.
Let the generative AI games begin! VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
