Indaba IndabaX Awards Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Indaba Abantu Reports Past Editions 2017 2018 2019 2020 Indaba IndabaX Awards Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Indaba Abantu Reports Past Editions 2017 2018 2019 2020 IndabaX: Eswatini (formerly Swaziland) 26 Aug - 27 Aug 2021 Number of Attendees: Location: University of Eswatini, Kwaluseni (Formerly University of Swaziland) ( view map ) Contact Details of Organizers: Dr. Stephen Fashoto ( gbengafash2@gmail.com) Dr. Andile Metfula ( asmetfula@uniswa.sz) Mr. Enock Dube ( eldube@uniswa.sz) Event website: Host Institution University of Eswatini, Kwaluseni (Formerly University of Swaziland) Schedule 29 Jul 2021 PROGRAMME DIRECTOR: MR. S. Zwane 08:00 – 08:30: Arrival and Registration - Ms. Fakazile Dlamini/Ms. Hlope 08:30 – 08:40: Introduction of the VC- Prof. S. Motsa Dean, Faculty of Science & Engineering 8:40- 9:00: Opening Remarks by VC- Prof. J. Thwala(UNESWA) 9:00 – 9:30: Group Photos 9:30: – 10:00: Introduction to Financial Inclusion- Centre for Financial Inclusion (CFI) Ms. Prudence 10:00 – 10:30: Introduction to Financial Technology-Ms. P. Nhlengetfwa (Central Bank of Eswatini (CBE) 10:30- 10:45: Eswatini infrastructural/Technology readiness for financial Inclusion -Mr. T. Fakudze(ESCOM) 10:45 – 11:15: Machine Learning for Financial Inclusion - Prof. B. Akinnuwesi (UNESWA) 11:20-11:50: Credit Card Fraud Detection Using Machine Learning- Mr. Jeremiah Olamijuwon (Eblocks Software, South Africa) 11:50 – 12:05: Quantitative and Qualitative Data - Ms. F. Madlala (UNESWA) 12:05 – 12:30: Recommender System for a Business Case- Dr. Ulrich Paquet (DEEPMIND UK) 12:30 – 13:30: TEA BREAK/LUNCH 13:30 - 16:30: Machine Learning/Deep Learning practical using Python - Dr. Fashoto/Dr. Ncube/Prof. Akinnuwesi/Mr. Dube/Mr. Mbunge/Mr. Jerry Olamijuwon 30 Jul 2021 PROGRAMME DIRECTOR: MR. S. Zwane 08:00 – 08:30: Arrival and Registration- Ms. Fakazile Dlamini/Ms. Hlope 08:30 – 10:00: Introduction to problem solving in machine learning using python PART I - Mr. Jeremiah Olamijuwon (Eblocks Software, South Africa) 10:00 – 11:00: Practical session on problem I - Dr. Fashoto/Dr. Ncube/Prof. Akinnuwesi/Mr. Dube/Mr. Mbunge/Mr. Jerry Olamijuwon 11:00 – 11:30: TEA BREAKs 11:30 – 13:00: Introduction to problem solving in machine learning using python PART 2 - Mr. Jeremiah Olamijuwon (Eblocks Software, South Africa) 13:00 – 14:00: Practical session on problem II - Dr. Fashoto/Dr. Ncube/Prof. Akinnuwesi/Mr. Dube/Mr. Mbunge/Mr. Jerry Olamijuwon 14:00 – 15:00: LUNCH 15:00 – 15:30: PRESENTATION OF GIFTS TO SPEAKERS 15:30 – 16:00: CLOSING REMARKS - Dr. Andile Metfula (Head of Computer Science (UNESWA) List of Speakers Dr. Paquet Ulrich DEEPMIND UK He is a South African research scientist at DeepMind, who lost his heart somewhere in the bushveld and is always looking for ways to find it. His most recent expedition in this quest is with the Deep Learning Indaba and its community of hard-working, dedicated friends and peers. He holds a PhD in machine learning from the University of Cambridge, lived life on the edge in two high tech startups, managed a team in Apple, and with Noam Koenigstein developed the core of the Microsoft recommender system. He was on the initial Xbox One team, and is still itching to build the next big thing.
Mr. Jeremiah Olamijuwon EBLOCKS SOFTWARE SOUTH AFRICA He is a Senior Data Scientist and Machine Learning (ML) Engineer at Eblocks Software. He is also the Founder of eTihuku Pty Ltd, a Financial Technology company, and the CoFounder of JayWealth Pty Ltd, an Agricultural Service Company which focuses on using Artificial Intelligence to improve livestock yield. Jeremiah specializes in the field of machine learning and computer vision with expertise in Python and R among many other programming languages, Cloud Computing, ModelOps and Deployment of ML models. Jeremiah collaborates on projects (through Eblocks Software) ranging from finance to health to insurance and many other interesting projects. He is also a recipient of several awards and scholarships as well as a member of the largest Honours international society (Golden Key). Jeremiah has obtained all his degrees till date with distinction (BSc, BSc Hons, and MSc) and is currently studying towards his Doctorate Degree in Electrical and Information Engineering at the University of Witwatersrand. Jeremiah's research revolves around using Artificial Intelligence to improve livestock yield using a non-invasive technique.
Ms. Pamela Nhlengethwa CENTRAL BANK OF ESWATINI She is a FinTech Analyst at the Central Bank of Eswatini. Her work as a FinTech Analyst involves research on the digital transformation of the financial system. She has a strong interest in driving innovation and the use of technology, particularly machine learning, to deliver affordable, accessible and efficient financial services, especially to the financially excluded and underserved. Pamela holds a Master’s degree in Computer Science and Information Engineering from National Cheng Kung University in Taiwan. She also holds a BSc in Applied Computing from Ming Chuan University, also in Taiwan.
Prof. Boluwaji Akinnuwesi UNIVERSITY OF ESWATINI (UNESWA) He is an Associate Professor in Department of Computer Science, University of Eswatini in ESwatini. He obtained his degrees(B.Sc., M.Sc. and Ph.D) in Computer Science. He focuses on Software Engineering and its Applications and thus applies software development methodologies to model and solve real life problems. He has developed a number of software frameworks for solving some real life problems. His core area of application is medical informatics. He applies soft computing and machine learning techniques in developing medical diagnosis system that could enhance accurate diagnosis of tropical diseases with overlapping symptoms. While in Lagos State University (LASU), Nigeria as an Associate Professor, he successfully supervised 11 Masters and 2 Doctoral theses. In addition, he has served in various academic management and administrative capacities such as Head of Department; Director of Computer Centre; Member of University Senate, Department/Faculty Board of Studies and several committees in the University. He serves in the capacity of external examiner to several Universities and Colleges of Education. He also carry out review activities for a number of academic journals and conferences. He has published a number of papers in journals and conference proceedings in his area of research. He is a full member of the following professional bodies: Computer Professional Registration Council of Nigeria, Nigeria Computer Society and Association of Computing Machinery. He is a research scholar in Southern University, Louisiana, USA. His areas of interest are: Software Engineering, Soft Computing, Database Systems, Machine Learning, Medical Informatics, System Analysis and Design.
Ms. Faith Madlala (UNESWA) She is a lecturer in the department of Statistics and Demography in the University of Eswatini. She is a competent and versatile statistician by experience with over nine years of numbers management expertise gained at various institutions and organizations. She received her Bsc in Applied Mathematics from NUST in Zimbabwe and is a holder of an MBA and a Masters In Operations Research and Statistics. Faith’s research areas focus on the applications of Time Series Analysis in Modeling, Econometrics, Operations Research and Artificial Intelligence.
Mr. Thulani Fakudze ESWATINI COMMUNICATION COMMISSION He is the Director of Technical Services at the Eswatini Communications Commission Contact us Deep Learning Indaba Strengthening African Machine Learning info@deeplearningindaba.com Indaba 2021 IndabaX Awards Mentorship Blog About Copyright © Deep Learning Indaba 2017 - 2023. All Rights Reserved.
