Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Snowflake acquires SnowConvert to accelerate database migrations to data cloud Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Montana-based Snowflake today announced an agreement with Mobilize Net to acquire SnowConvert, a suite of tools to help enterprises migrate their databases to the Snowflake data cloud.
 The financial terms of the deal were not disclosed.
Today, there are plenty of data duplication solutions for Snowflake, but not many give due attention to the hardest aspect of data migration – code conversion.
A legacy database can have millions of lines of DDL, BTEQ and thousands of objects. To ensure a successful migration, this code needs to be rebuilt and made equally functional on the other side. This takes a lot of time and effort, and a slight mistake could cause the migration to fail.
To address this challenge, Mobilize developed SnowConvert. The toolkit uses sophisticated automation techniques with built-analysis and matching to re-create functionally equivalent code for tables, views, stored procedures, macros and BTEQ files in Snowflake. It can migrate databases from any source data platform (such as Oracle, Teradata or Spark) and instantly cut down the time and effort spent on manual coding. According to Snowflake, the toolkit has already been used to convert more than 1.5 billion lines of code.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! How this acquisition will help Snowflake By acquiring SnowConvert, Snowflake will expand its professional services footprint in Costa Rica, Colombia and Bellevue. It will provide enterprises with seamless access to the toolkit, making it easier for them to migrate their data and start leveraging the data cloud.
“One of our key objectives at Snowflake is to make it as fast and simple as possible for our customers and partners to unlock value from data. For many organizations, that starts with the efficient migration of their legacy databases and applications to the data cloud,” Ted Brackin, Snowflake VP of professional services, said.
“With the acquisition of SnowConvert, we can help more customers, partners and, more broadly, our Snowflake partner network move more data and applications into the data cloud, enabling customers to obtain faster value from their investment in Snowflake sooner,” Brackin added.
While the closing of this deal remains subject to required regulatory approvals and other closing conditions, it must be noted that this is not the first deal from Snowflake to strengthen the footprint of its data cloud.
Just a few weeks back, Snowflake announced the acquisition of time-series forecasting company Myst.
 Prior to that, it had acquired document-understanding platform Applica and open-source app framework Streamlit.
 The company has more than 7,000 enterprise customers at present.
Separately, today Mobilize Net also posted Growth Acceleration Partners’ announcement of a signed intention to purchase its Application Migration Business Unit, similarly subject to terms and regulatory approval.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
