Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages EY launches AI platform and LLM after $1.4 billion investment Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Today professional services leader EY announced the launch of EY.ai, a comprehensive platform to help clients boost AI adoption. The platform brings together an AI ecosystem with a range of capabilities, with alliances with companies including Microsoft (which provided EY with early access to Azure OpenAI capabilities, such as GPT-3 and GPT-4), Dell Technologies, IBM, SAP, ServiceNow, Thomson Reuters and UiPath.
The company said it has invested $1.4 billion as the foundation for the platform, including embedding AI into proprietary EY technologies like EY Fabric — used by 60,000 EY clients and more than 1.5 million unique client users, as well funding a series of cloud and automation technology acquisitions. The announcement also included the fact that following an initial pilot with 4,200 EY technology-focused team members, EY will be releasing a secure, large language model called EY.ai EYQ.
EY CTO has weighed in on ‘killer use case’ of gen AI The announcement comes almost exactly eight months since VentureBeat spoke to EY’s global chief technology officer, Nicola Morini Bianzino, about the “killer use case” of generative AI in the enterprise. Bianzino told VentureBeat in January that this would be around generative AI’s impact on knowledge management, that he described as the “dialectic of AI.” “When you think about an organization like ours, we have 360,000 people, we have lots of tools and capabilities built in the more than 100 years of our history,” he said at the time. “But that knowledge is distributed now, you can’t really touch it; it’s the soul of our organization, but it’s immaterial.” If you could systematize it into an ontology and make it part of a technology solution, you can increase enterprise value significantly, he continued.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! New AI offerings help provide ‘treasure map’ for enterprises In an interview today with VentureBeat, Bianzino said that EY’s new proprietary AI offerings offer its clients “a level of confidence” in AI capabilities that are suitable for the enterprise.
“What we want to do with EY.ai is based on countless interactions and conversations as people start to understand the potential impact of this technology but are asking us, ‘how would you measure the future compliance of these solutions?'” he explained. “That’s where we have a very strong ability to help clients develop a valid framework, assess the maturity of the organization, and then offer a roadmap that allows clients to deploy AI with confidence.” It is, he said, almost a “treasure map” to help enterprise clients embark — and succeed — on their AI journey.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
