Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages OpenAI unveils DALL-E 3 with support for text and typography Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Credit: OpenAI Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Open AI’s DALL-E 2 AI image generation model is no longer cutting-edge.
Today, the company announced DALL-E 3 , its latest text-to-image generator and showed off some of its new impressive features, including the ability to generate readable text baked directly into images themselves — something that was not easy with DALL-E 2, and which other competing image generator AI models such as Midjourney still struggle to achieve.
“DALL·E 3 delivers significant improvements over DALL·E 2 when generating text within an image and in human details like hands,” OpenAI wrote on its web page explaining the new model.
This feature puts OpenAI in direct competition with Ideogram , a startup from former Googlers launched last month, which also offers image generation with text/typography baked in using its own proprietary AI model.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Understands spatial relationships Furthermore, OpenAI wrote that DALL-E 3 does a much better job of understanding the spatial relationships that users include in their prompt text, generating imagery that places figures and objects where the user has described in relation to one another. This means that descriptive prompts can now be rendered far more accurately, as seen in an example screenshot below.
Integrated with ChatGPT OpenAI also said that DALL-E 3 would be coming to ChatGPT Plus, the paid $20-per-month subscription tier of its hit large language model (LLM), and its new ChatGPT for Enterprise plans announced last month, meaning that corporate clients will now have the ability to generate imagery with text for their marketing or internal collateral.
In addition, OpenAI says that ChatGPT can help users refine their prompts automatically to generate the imagery that better matches their intent.
A video posted by OpenAI co-founder and CEO Sam Altman on X , the social network formerly known as Twitter, demonstrates the impressive back-and-forth conversational prompting style that is now possible in DALL-E 3 thanks to the ChatGPT integration.
also, the video we made for dalle 3 is SO CUTE: pic.twitter.com/k1FOFTOsU5 At the same time, OpenAI wrote that “like previous versions, we’ve taken steps to limit DALL-E 3’s ability to generate violent, adult, or hateful content.” The announcement was cheered on by OpenAI developer relations advocate Logan Kilpatrick on X (formerly Twitter), who said it was “absolutely incredible.” Huge news: @OpenAI DALL-E 3 will soon available in ChatGPT Plus and ChatGPT Enterprise ? This latest DALL-E model is absolutely incredible, I have been blown away by what it is able to generate.
pic.twitter.com/eTWzxiOHgB VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
