Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Adobe taps Reuters to give Creative Cloud subscribers access to millions of editorial photos and videos Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Leonardo DiCaprio, nominated for Best Actor for his role in "The Revenant," wearing a Giorgio Armani tuxedo, arrives at the 88th Academy Awards in Hollywood, California February 28, 2016. REUTERS/Lucas Jackson TPX IMAGES OF THE DAY - RTS8FPC Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Adobe has announced plans to turbo-charge its stock photo service by licensing editorial images and videos from Reuters.
Adobe has been a player in the stock media realm since its $800 million Fotolia acquisition back in 2014, and the company subsequently launched the Adobe Stock service and integrated it with its Creative Cloud libraries. The upshot of this was that creators could access millions of royalty-free commercial photos, illustrations, videos, graphics, and more directly from within Adobe’s suite of apps, including Photoshop, lllustrator, InDesign, Premiere Pro, and Dreamweaver.
With Reuters’ editorial assets thrown into the mix, Adobe users will have a direct pipeline into the news giant’s entire collection — covering sports, news, entertainment, millions of archive photos, and more than a million historical news video clips. The integration is expected to happen some time in the first half of 2017.
Today’s news represents a notable evolution for Adobe Stock as a service, and it gives newsrooms, freelancers, and bloggers extra incentive not only to use Adobe Stock, but also to sign up for an Adobe Creative Cloud license.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “Editorial is a critical component of modern content creation and storytelling,” said Bryan Lamkin, executive vice president and general manager of digital media at Adobe. “We’re thrilled about our partnership with Reuters, as we’re now able to offer powerful news, editorial and sports imagery, and archival coverage to our customers, dramatically expanding the range of stock assets available directly in their Creative Cloud apps.” In related news today, Adobe also announced a range of updates to its Creative Cloud suite of apps ahead of its MAX conference and launched a new 3D design app called Project Felix, a font store called Typekit Marketplace, new virtual reality features for the Premiere Pro video editor, a triumvirate of new Android apps, and some smaller updates across platforms.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
