Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Israeli phone hacking company faces court fight over sales to Hong Kong By Patrick Howell O'Neill archive page Photo by Simon Zhu on Unsplash Human rights advocates filed a new court petition against the Israeli phone hacking company Cellebrite, urging Israel’s ministry of defense to halt the firm’s exports to Hong Kong, where security forces have been using the technology in crackdowns against dissidents as China takes greater control.
In July, police court filings revealed that Cellebrite’s phone hacking technology has been used to break into 4,000 phones of Hong Kong citizens, including prominent pro-democracy politician and activist Joshua Wong. He subsequently launched an online petition to end Cellebrite’s sales to Hong Kong, which gained 35,000 signatures.
“Defense Ministry officials must immediately stop the export of the Cellebrite system which is used for infringement on privacy, deprivation of liberty and freedom of expression, and political incrimination of Hong Kong citizens under the new National Security Law,” Wong wrote in a Facebook post urging Israel to stop Cellebrite’s exports to Hong Kong.
Hong Kong’s new security law, which increases Beijing’s control of the city, defines pro-democracy protests as terrorism, severely limits free speech, and reduces much of the autonomy that the city once had from China. As of May, the United States no longer considered Hong Kong autonomous from the mainland.
Hong Kong activists say that Cellebrite’s tech is “used to inflict terrorism on the city's residents and to attack demonstrators and pro-democracy activists.” Israeli human rights advocates say exports to Hong Kong police should legally have stopped in 2019 when anti-democratic crackdowns grew dramatically.
Now the Israeli petition in court aims to put legal and political pressure on the technology firm, which is based in Tel Aviv.
“I’m asking the minister of defense to stop the Cellebrite exports to Hong Kong,” says Eitay Mack, the human rights lawyer who filed the petition in the district court in Tel Aviv. “I’m also saying that, as far as I know, they never got an export license. The ministry of defense needs to enforce the law from companies with licenses, but also they need to do oversight on companies working without a license.” Related Story Cellebrite is at the center of the global encryption debate. Apple’s and Google’s devices enable strong encryption, which instantly afforded more security to users of iPhones and Android systems. Law enforcement officials who argue that encryption means criminals are “going dark” use products like Cellebrite’s to break into phones and access and organize all the data inside. Cellebrite says it can “unlock devices with ease” by finding vulnerabilities in targeted smartphones and exploiting them. Most often, that means police and security forces unlocking phones of criminal suspects—a category that now includes pro-democracy advocates in Hong Kong.
The company has government customers spanning the United States, Europe, and Asia. In 2019, it boasted that it could unlock any iPhone and most Android phones.
Cellebrite’s powerful technology is sold to police and security forces around the world, and there are big questions over what democratic oversight and regulation of the company actually exists. Cellebrite would typically have to get an export license from Israel’s economic or defense ministry. Officials at the economic ministry say they have not granted such a license, and the defense ministry has remained quiet on Cellebrite’s sales. The agency, which has a policy of not commenting on specific companies it regulates, has not responded to Mack’s inquiries, or to requests for comment for this article.
“The system of regulation is not working,” says Mack, who argues that the dramatic changes in Hong Kong now require the ministry of defense to regulate Cellebrite and stop all sales there.
In addition to publicly pressuring the Israeli government, the petitioners want Cellebrite’s employees to take notice.
“I hope Cellebrite will have a rebellion inside the company,” Mack says. “The workers inside the company didn’t join to help the Chinese dictatorship.” Cellebrite’s business is global, and Hong Kong is not the only problem point. In Belarus, widespread pro-democracy protests have been met with aggressive crackdowns by dictator Alexander Lukashenko. Mack argues that Israel must stop Cellebrite from selling its technology to the Belarussian government.
The company first made global headlines following reports that its technology was used to hack into the iPhone of the San Bernardino terrorists following the deadly attack in 2015. The company denied involvement. Cellebrite did not respond to a request for comment.
hide by Patrick Howell O'Neill Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 Zeyi Yang How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Deep Dive Computing What’s next for the world’s fastest supercomputers Scientists have begun running experiments on Frontier, the world’s first official exascale machine, while facilities worldwide build other machines to join the ranks.
By Sophia Chen archive page AI-powered 6G networks will reshape digital interactions The convergence of AI and communication technologies will create 6G networks that make hyperconnectivity and immersive experiences an everyday reality for consumers.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page The power of green computing Sustainable computing practices have the power to both infuse operational efficiencies and greatly reduce energy consumption, says Jen Huffstetler, chief product sustainability officer at Intel.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page How this Turing Award–winning researcher became a legendary academic advisor Theoretical computer scientist Manuel Blum has guided generations of graduate students into fruitful careers in the field.
By Sheon Han archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
