Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages OpenAI CEO Sam Altman foresees ‘breathtaking’ scientific discoveries, muses on geoengineering Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
OpenAI co-founder and CEO Sam Altman wasn’t a well known figure outside of the tech sector until recently, but following his company’s rapid ascent to the top of the competitive generative AI landscape propelled by its hit product ChatGPT , and his own “world tour” visiting politicians in different countries , he is becoming an increasingly important and influential voice on the global landscape.
Today, Altman took to his personal account on X (formerly Twitter), the social platform owned by former business partner turned rival Elon Musk , to offer this thoughts on scientific progress and a hotly debated tool for combatting climate change: geoengineering , or selectively modifying aspects of the Earth’s natural processes to reduce greenhouse gases or warming effects.
Altman started with a tweet around 11:20 am ET sharing his perspective on solar geoengineering , or introducing mirrors in space or particles into the atmosphere to block the sun’s rays: i wish the world were studying solar geoengineering more.
clearly have misgivings about it, but it's so relatively cheap that i think some country is just going to do it if/when the climate crisis gets bad enough as a temporary patch.
would be great to learn more before then.
He then separately tweeted a sentiment of optimism in the current outlook for exploration: VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! born too late to explore the earth, born…at the absolute coolest time in history, about to be able to explore absolutely everything else Then added: the scientific discoveries of the coming few decades will be breathtaking Clearly, despite some recent alarming news when it comes to climate change (we just experienced the hottest September on record by a long shot ), and ongoing global economic issues and geopolitical tensions, Altman is encouraged by scientific progress and humanity’s potential for technological advancement. Time will tell if his view is warranted.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
