Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft is buying Activision Blizzard Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Xbox is buying Activision Blizzard.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
In an earth-shattering deal, Microsoft announced today that it has agreed to buy Activision Blizzard.
According to Bloomberg , that deal is valued at about $70 billion. In comparison, Microsoft spent $7.5 billion on Bethesda.
Activision Blizzard has been battling investigations into toxic workplace accusations during the past year. Selling could give current ownership, including CEO Bobby Kotick, something of a consolation. While leaders would still be subject to any consequences of those investigations, they can net a big payday by selling a company that is on a downward trend.
For Microsoft, this gives it access to some of the biggest gaming properties in history, including Call of Duty, which every year releases a best-selling shooter. The Blizzard side is home to Warcraft, StarCraft, Diablo, and Overwatch. Activision also owns King, makers of the mobile megahit Candy Crush Saga.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Microsoft could rehabilitate Activision Blizzard’s image by declaring these beloved — or once beloved — properties as being under new management.
According to Niko Partners senior analyst Daniel Ahmad , Microsoft will have to pay Activision Blizzard $3 billion if the deal falls through or is blocked.
Microsoft gaming CEO Phil Spencer states in the announcement of the deal, “Until this transaction closes, Activision Blizzard and Microsoft Gaming will continue to operate independently. Once the deal is complete, the Activision Blizzard business will report to me as CEO, Microsoft Gaming.” Microsoft expects the deal to close in the financial year 2023.
He continues, “Upon close, we will offer as many Activision Blizzard games as we can within Xbox Game Pass and PC Game Pass, both new titles and games from Activision Blizzard’s incredible catalog. We also announced today that Game Pass now has more than 25 million subscribers. As always, we look forward to continuing to add more value and more great games to Game Pass.” In a statement provided to VGC , Microsoft noted that Kotick is staying: “Bobby Kotick will continue to serve as CEO of Activision Blizzard, and he and his team will maintain their focus on driving efforts to further strengthen the company’s culture and accelerate business growth.” GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
