Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Data integration giant Fivetran raises $565M and acquires HVR Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Fivetran Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Fivetran , a data integration platform major enterprises can use to “extract, transform, and load” (ETL) data from myriad sources into their data warehouse, has raised $565 million in a series D round of funding at a $5.6 billion valuation. The Oakland, California-based company also announced plans to acquire HVR , which specializes in data replication for enterprises.
Data replication is the concept of storing duplicates of the same data in different locations, serving to improve data availability, accessibility, and resilience. By bringing HVR under its wing, Fivetran said it will be well-positioned to provide “modern analytics for the world’s most business-critical data without compromising security, performance, or ease of use,” according to a press release.
Above: HVR in action Data stack For context, the modern enterprise data stack comprises various components. This includes data ingestion tools such as Fivetran , which companies like Square and DocuSign use to move data out of SaaS applications, databases, and event logs and pool inside cloud-based warehouses such as Snowflake and Google’s BigQuery to derive insights that would not be possible in their original data silos. For example, a sales team might have data spread across CRM, marketing, customer support, and product analytics. Combining all this data in a centralized repository (i.e. a data warehouse) makes it possible to query this data collectively and spot consumer purchasing trends.
Founded in 2012, Fivetran had previously raised around $165 million, and its fresh cash injection could help fund its HVR acquisition — the deal amounts to around $700 million, constituting a mixture of cash and stock. It also comes just a few months after Fivetran announced its first acquisition, when it bought database replication platform Teleport Data.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! When the HVR deal closes, Fivetran said its customers will gain access to HVR’s various data replication products, including its “change data capture” (CDC) offering that allows businesses to replicate data in real time. This includes automatically identifying changes to the source data and synchronizing these changes across systems.
Fivetran’s series D round was led by Andreessen Horowitz, with participation from General Catalyst, CEAS Investments, Matrix Partners, Iconiq Capital, D1 Capital Partners, and YC Continuity.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
