Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Event Where does your organization stand on the AI curve? (Find out with this survey) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn This may be the year artificial intelligence moves firmly into the enterprise.
Big businesses like Amazon, Google, Microsoft, IBM, and Salesforce tout the AI agents they put to work for their clients. Autonomous vehicles have spread past experiments with taxi-style services and moved into industrial parks and commercial shipping. AI is powering services from marketing analysis to credit approval. The applications seem limitless.
That’s why VB is offering our second annual AI survey. It’s for execs who are busy integrating AI into their workflows and product development, or who may be just starting out.
It takes just a few minutes, and in return, you’ll have exclusive access to the full results, which won’t be released publicly.
In last year’s survey, 50% of AI buyers said the biggest barrier to AI adoption was too little talent and resources. Still, they expected AI to show results quickly: 42% of buyers of AI said they expected ROI within 4-6 months.
Another interesting finding last year was that a large number of leaders felt that responsibility for AI initiatives was wrongly placed. For example, only 13% of our respondents said that IT departments should be in charge of AI implementation, while 65% said business lines should be responsible — very different from the reality, where respondents reported that ownership was equally held between IT and line of business.
After you fill out the survey, join the conversation and register for Transform 2020: Accelerating Your Business with AI.
 It’s three days of unbeatable networking, case studies featuring real ROI from industry giants to ingenious startups, and how-to AI product workshops in smart speech, computer vision, and more. Don’t miss our VIP events such as the Women in AI breakfast and the 2nd annual AI Innovation Awards dinner.
Lend your voice: To learn more about where your company stands now, and how the market is evolving in the AI-first era, take the VB AI Survey now.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
