Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report shows 92% of orgs experienced an API security incident last year Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Today, application security provider Data Theorem , announced the release of a new report in partnership with TechTarget’s Enterprise Strategy Group ( ESG ). ESG surveyed 397 respondents on cloud-native applications and API security and found that 92% of organizations experienced at least one API-related security incident in the last 12 months.
The report, scheduled to release on May 5, also revealed that 57% experienced multiple API security incidents, highlighting that many organizations still have a lot more to do to defend cloud-native applications and APIs against threat actors.
This comes just months after a hacker used a Twitter API vulnerability shipped in June 2021 (now patched) to compile and leak the account details and email addresses of 235 million users in January 2023.
API security incidents ‘no surprise’ One of the key challenges unveiled by the research was the transient nature of the attack surface. For instance, 75% of organizations typically changed or updated their APIs on a daily or weekly basis, creating new vulnerabilities in the attack surface for security teams to confront.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “It’s no surprise that most organizations are experiencing API-related security incidents,” said Melinda Marks, senior analyst for ESG in the announcement press release.
“Modern development cycles bring faster, more frequent product releases and updates, and the growing number of APIs that change on a daily or weekly basis make it imperative to address the changing attack surface. This rapid rate of change also creates shadow APIs and zombie APIs, which can be hackers’ favorite APIs to exploit because organizations often do not know about them,” Marks said.
However, many organizations are looking to address API security by increasing their spending over the next 12–18 months by investing in API security tools (45%), cloud-native application protection platforms (CNAPPs) (43%), and integration application security and API security tools (41%).
CNAPPs and API security tools provide automated support in discovering APIs and highlighting potential entry points, giving defenders valuable insight into how to harden their defenses against cyberattacks.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
