Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Event VB Transform opens with generative AI heavy-hitters from AWS and Google Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn AI is transformatively intelligent — but it also can be dumb as a stump. Generative AI is a spectacular example of that. While it offers inventive, sometimes ingenious results, its tendency to hallucinate (or confidently produce false information) offers enterprises not only huge opportunity and tremendous potential, but also some work-stoppingly serious challenges.
How can business leaders overcome the particular obstacles that gen AI’s limitations pose, and unleash its genuinely industry-shaking power? That’s the galaxy-brain question driving this year’s VB Transform: Get Ahead of the Generative AI Revolution , happening July 11 + 12 at the Marriott Marquis in San Francisco. That’s because the key to enterprise-ready generative AI lies in the hands of the current generative AI pioneers across industries. To open the conference, VB Founder and CEO Matt Marshall will welcome to the stage some of the biggest hitters in the industry today.
>> Follow all our VentureBeat Transform 2023 coverage << Gerrit Kazmaier, VP & GM for database, data analytics and Looker at Google, and Matt Wood, VP of product at AWS will take the audience through the most promising applications and use cases afforded by generative AI, what enterprises need to do to embrace these opportunities, and most importantly, the ways they can proactively minimize risks, safeguard proprietary data and maintain privacy.
They’ll delve into challenges and opportunities presented by both closed and open-source large language models (LLMs), as well as what to consider regarding emerging strategies and technologies that allow generative AI breakthroughs.
The panel, “ How to Leverage Generative AI for Enterprise Success: Exclusive Insights and Advice from the Leaders of Gen AI ” takes place on Wednesday, July 12, 2023, from 9:20 AM to 9:50 AM as part of the main conference program.
Don’t miss the opportunity to join the conversation and gain invaluable knowledge from some of the most influential voices in the industry today.
Register now for VB Transform 2023 to secure your spot for “The Leaders of Gen AI” session and learn more about the full conference agenda here.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
