Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Emily Dreyfuss Business Facebook Changes Its Ad Tech to Stop Discrimination Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save On Tuesday, Facebook reached a historic settlement with civil rights groups that had accused the company of allowing advertisers to unlawfully discriminate against minorities, women, and the elderly by using the platform’s ad-targeting technology to exclude them from seeing ads for housing, jobs, and credit—three areas with legal protections for groups that historically have been disenfranchised.
After fighting back against the accusations for years, Facebook announced it will make significant changes to its platform so that advertisers can no longer target, or exclude based on characteristics like gender or race. This is significant because Facebook’s massive revenue primarily comes from ads, which are so lucrative because of the platform's microtargeting capabilities. But when a company or advertiser shows an ad only to certain people—say, people under the age of 55, as Facebook allegedly did when it placed ads on its own site for jobs at Facebook—that excludes a protected class of workers. And that’s illegal under federal law.
“It is a game-changer,” says Lisa Rice, the executive vice president of the National Fair Housing Alliance, whose lawsuit against Facebook was among those settled Tuesday. “The settlement positions Facebook to be a pacesetter and a leader on civil rights issues in the tech field.” The settlement resolves five separate cases that had been brought against Facebook over discriminatory advertising since 2016, following a ProPublica investigation that revealed Facebook let advertisers choose to hide their ads from blacks, Hispanics, or people of other “ethnic affinities.” Lawsuits soon followed. The most recent case was an EEOC complaint by the American Civil Liberties Union in September, alleging that Facebook allowed job ads to discriminate against women.
As part of the agreement, Facebook will build a designated portal for advertisers to create housing, employment, and credit ads, which will not allow targeting users by age, gender, zip code, or other categories covered by antidiscrimination laws. Microtargeting options that appear to relate to these protected categories will be off-limits as well, and Facebook’s Lookalike Audiences tool will also incorporate these restrictions. Any advertiser that wants to run an ad on Facebook will be required to indicate if their ad is related to one of these three things.
Additionally, Facebook will build a tool for anyone to view any housing ad anywhere in the US, regardless of who is targeted for or where you live. According to The Washington Post , Facebook has said it will make these changes by the end of the year.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg “Housing, employment, and credit ads are crucial to helping people buy new homes, start great careers, and gain access to credit. They should never be used to exclude or harm people,” Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg wrote in a post announcing the settlement. “Getting this right is deeply important to me and all of us at Facebook because inclusivity is a core value for our company.” But Facebook has not always led from the front on this issue. Initially, the company sought to dismiss the cases brought against it by the civil rights groups, arguing, among other things, that it was immune from charges of facilitating discrimination under the Communications Decency Act of 1996. (The Trump administration’s Justice Department disagreed, filing statements of interest in two of the cases against Facebook: Onuoha v. Facebook , and NFHA v. Facebook.
) “We were in these settlement talks for two years,” says Peter Romer-Friedman, a lawyer at Outten and Golden, which represented plaintiffs in multiple cases against Facebook. “The fact that more and more evidence was proffered and viewed by the public and new cases came forward and identified how users could be discriminated against helped all the parties understand how serious the problem was.” Think of a category people might fall into, and Facebook can likely divide and target users for it. The company tracks people not only on its main platform, but also on Instagram and Messenger, both of which it owns, and across the web and smartphone apps. That’s how its whole ad model works: by tracking user behavior and characteristics and letting advertisers microtarget products—from clothes and furniture to houses and jobs—to the kinds of people they most want to reach.
That’s also why Facebook’s advertising platform is so valuable: In 2017, according to its annual earnings report , the company made $39.94 billion on ads alone. Its total revenue for that year was $40.65 billion, meaning ads accounted for roughly 98 percent of revenue.
Such tracking—and the entire ad model it enables—has been under attack lately, not just for its discriminatory capabilities, but also its general privacy implications. In Germany, the state’s antitrust regulator ruled in February those data-tracking practices were illegal, because Facebook (the dominant social media company in that country) was forcing users to agree to invasive data gathering to participate.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg “Facebook will no longer be allowed to force its users to agree to the practically unrestricted collection and assigning of non-Facebook data to their Facebook user accounts,” said Andreas Mundt, the head of Germany’s antitrust regulator. Facebook vowed to appeal at the time of the ruling; the company did not provide any information on the case by press time.
Facebook is also facing investigations from the Federal Trade Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as from prosecutors in multiple states for its privacy and data practices.
In response to all this pressure, CEO Mark Zuckerberg recently announced a “ pivot to privacy ” that would result in a whole new platform—the business model of which is yet to be determined. As for Tuesday’s announcement, it’s not totally clear how much this settlement will impact the company’s bottom line. A spokesperson for Facebook would not tell WIRED what percentage of total ads on the platform are for housing, employment, or credit. But civil rights leaders involved in the settlement say it’s clearly a lot. “Like everything in life, everything is now on Facebook and there have been huge upticks [in the amount of ads] on Facebook and other social media for employment, housing, and credit,” says Romer-Friedman.
On the new housing, employment, and credit ad portal, advertisers will only see a few hundred options for targeting—as opposed to the tens of thousands they’ll still see on the regular ad platform. But even on the special ad flow, advertisers could easily get around Facebook’s new antidiscrimination precautions. The new design won’t preclude people from uploading their own curated list of people to target ads to—a list that could be totally discriminatory but still compliant with the new service. “The settlement doesn’t address audiences that are created by an advertiser with their own list,” notes Romer-Friedman, adding that employers, housing providers, and banks “really ought to be looking at their list to make sure they are not excluding people.” In other words, employers will need to promise to do the right thing. Facebook already requires advertisers to certify that they are in compliance with the law.
Despite those drawbacks, civil rights advocates are applauding. And they are confident Facebook will follow through. The company has agreed to twice-annual meetings with the groups, as well as ongoing trainings with outside experts on these issues. Facebook has agreed to let the NFHA, the ACLU, and others conduct independent testing of its ad sites to make sure Facebook does what it says it will.
“If any advertiser was trying to skirt or circumvent the system, we have methods for ferreting that out and we’ll be able to bring that to the attention of Facebook,” says Rice of the National Fair Housing Alliance.
In her post, Sandberg thanked the civil rights groups for helping the company “promote fairness” on the platform. As with most positive change from Facebook, today’s settlement is reactive and late. But it’s on target.
How does music affect your brain? Every imaginable way Facebook is not a monopoly, but it should be broken up Why it's so hard to restart Venezuela's power grid Cracking the devilish aerodynamics of flying cars China is catching up to the US in AI research —fast 👀 Looking for the latest gadgets? Check out our latest buying guides and best deals all year round 📩 Hungry for even more deep dives on your next favorite topic? Sign up for the Backchannel newsletter Senior Writer X Topics Facebook Advertising Regulation Vittoria Elliott Vittoria Elliott Morgan Meaker Vittoria Elliott Morgan Meaker Peter Guest Peter Guest Paresh Dave Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
