Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Generative AI is ‘everything, everywhere, all at once’ in the enterprise, says Mastercard data leader Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
What a difference a year makes: At the Women in AI breakfast that kicked off VentureBeat Transform 2023 in San Francisco this morning, Mastercard fellow of data & AI JoAnn Stonier said that right now generative AI in the enterprise is like the Oscar-winning movie — Everything, Everywhere, All at Once.
That’s a big shift from last July, when the same Women in AI discussion at Transform focused on predictive AI, governance, minimizing bias and model creation. “It was very much a company and organization-by-organization sport,” said Stonier, who was also on the 2022 panel. But now, instead of looking at generative AI from a risk perspective, everyone began to have FOMO, she explained — fear of missing out and being left behind.
Now, with generative AI a team sport, she said, “Every organization is trying to figure out what does it mean to them, the right approach for their enterprise.” >> Follow all our VentureBeat Transform 2023 coverage << VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Emily Roberts, senior vice president, consumer platforms at Capital One and Xiaodi Zhang, vice president, seller experience at eBay, also participated in the Women in AI panel.
The opportunity of generative AI is exciting, said Roberts, but cautioned that for Capital One, nothing has changed yet.
“The promise of what we could do is so exciting, and there’s so much opportunity, and we’ve been thinking about building continuous learning organizations, the structure in how you’re going to apply this to our thinking,” she said. “In the day-to-day, I run consumer platforms, so nothing has changed yet, but a lot of what we want to be thinking about as product leaders is what this can become over time.” Zhang said that at eBay, the company has been able to introduce generative AI into its listing flow for customers — something they are testing and iterating.
“We’ve been pleasantly surprised by their [customers’] reaction,” she said, adding that eBay customers want efficiency but they also appreciate having control over the tools. She suggested companies consider internal hackathons that leverage employee capabilities in generative AI.
Stonier added that Mastercard has expanded its AI council to evaluate generative AI tools. “We’re seeing things cluster around knowledge management and customer service and chatbots, even advertising and media services — as well as refining interactive tools for our customers — but [we] are not ready to put out there.” The more important the outcome, she said, there should be a distance between the input and validating the output. “We’re refining what we want to do, but we’re not there yet,” she said.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
