Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Anthropic brings Claude AI to more countries, but still no Canada (for now) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Credit: VentureBeat made with Midjourney Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Anthropic, the “ Constitutional AI ” foundation model startup from San Francisco that is perhaps the foremost rival to OpenAI , made a big move this week, bringing its Claude 2 large language model (LLM) chatbot to 95 countries total , including: Albania Algeria Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Australia Bahamas Bangladesh Barbados Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Botswana Cape Verde Chile Colombia Congo Costa Rica Dominica Dominican Republic East Timor Ecuador El Salvador Fiji Gambia Georgia Ghana Guatemala Guinea-Bissau Guyana Honduras India Indonesia Israel Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Kenya Kiribati Kuwait Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Marshall Islands Mauritius Mexico Micronesia Mongolia Mozambique Namibia Nauru Nepal New Zealand Niger Nigeria Oman Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Qatar Rwanda Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa São Tomé and Príncipe Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Solomon Islands South Africa South Korea Sri Lanka Suriname Taiwan Thailand Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tuvalu Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Uruguay Vanuatu Zambia “We’re rolling out access to Claude.ai to more people around the world,” the company posted on X (formerly Twitter ). “Starting today, users in 95 countries can talk to Claude and get help with their professional or day-to-day tasks…Since launching in July, millions of users have leveraged Claude’s expansive memory, 100K token context window and file upload feature. Claude has helped them analyze data, improve their writing and even talk to books and research papers.” However, among those nations conspicuously left off the list was the home of some of VentureBeat’s own contributors: Canada.
Canada remains elusive for some AI applications Interestingly, Google’s Bard AI chatbot is also not yet available in the hockey-loving, beaver-ridden country, though OpenAI’s ChatGPT is. And of course, Toronto AI startup Cohere is also based in the country.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Asked by VentureBeat about why Anthropic had not yet brought Claude 2 to Canada, and if it was in the works, a spokesperson responded via email to say: “I can share that the team is diligently working to make Claude available in Canada as soon as possible.” That’s in line with the company’s message on X as well, where it posted : “We’re working hard to responsibly expand availability over the coming months—and will have more to share soon.” The lack of a definitive reason and timeline may be cold comfort to our Canadian contributors, but at least there is something to look forward to. Some contributors reported that Poe , the AI model aggregator subscription service from Quora , did allow them to access Claude 2 from Canada.
Canadian politicians have taken a hard line towards AI regulations , so their tough talk may be ensuring more due diligence from U.S. AI companies looking to expand there.
Anthropic recently secured an up to $4 billion commitment from Amazon and another $100 million from South Korea Telecom (SKT) , so it certainly has no shortage of cash to help it along its quest. The company has also earned praise from users for Claude 2’s ability to parse PDFs. However, as of now, it lacks some of the image generation and multimodal/audio/video / web browsing features of ChatGPT.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
