Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Zuckerberg says Meta building generative AI into all its products, recommits to ‘open science’ Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
In an internal all-hands meeting this morning, Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg said Meta is building generative AI into all of its products and reaffirmed the company’s commitment to an “open science-based approach” to AI research.
The comments came just two days after Senators sent a letter to Zuckerberg questioning the leak of Meta’s popular open-source large language model (LLM) LLaMA in March (which was seen by many experts as a threat to the open source AI community).
“In the last year, we’ve seen some really incredible breakthroughs — qualitative breakthroughs — on generative AI and that gives us the opportunity to now go take that technology, push it forward and build it into every single one of our products,” Zuckerberg said. “We’re going to play an important and unique role in the industry in bringing these capabilities to billions of people in new ways that other people aren’t going to do.” New Meta AI announcements Zuckerberg made a range of AI-related announcements at the meeting: First, he explained that Meta is building a range of generative text, image and video models, along with ones that can generate rich 3D content, all the way up to entire worlds in the metaverse.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! These generative AI-powered experiences are “under development in varying phases,” a Meta spokesperson said, adding that “our investments in AI continue to be foundational to our near-term and long-term success, especially as we get ready to bring our first generative AI-powered experiences into our family of apps and consumer products.” Zuckerberg also showcased LLM-powered AI agents with unique personas and skill sets that help and entertain people, and said the company will bring them to Messenger and WhatsApp first, but explore additional opportunities across its family of apps, consumer products and into the metaverse.
In addition, he highlighted an Agents Playground, an experimental internal-only interface powered by LLaMA where users “can have conversations with AI agents and provide feedback to help us improve our systems.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
