Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Lab Insights The 2021 gaming landscape: What developers, publishers, and marketers need to know Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn T his article is part of a Gaming Insights series paid for by Facebook.
The gaming world was transformed when the COVID-19 outbreak brought an unprecedented surge in consumer demand. More people than ever before were playing games, both new players coming into the fold and more engaged interest from long-term gamers.
The new gaming landscape also brings big changes for developers, publishers, and marketers who need to stay on top of how the gaming business has been impacted, how monetization strategies need to evolve , and what user acquisition and engagement looks like now.
To help you navigate the year ahead, here’s a look at how player behavior — including motivations, preferences, and habits — has transformed ; why community, especially in the current landscape, is becoming more important; and in a world that’s becoming increasingly platform agnostic, how gaming companies can meet players where they are.
Dig deeper: Check out the full report to see all the stats! VB Lab Insights content is created in collaboration with a company that is either paying for the post or has a business relationship with VentureBeat, and they’re always clearly marked. Content produced by our editorial team is never influenced by advertisers or sponsors in any way. For more information, contact sales@venturebeat.com.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
