Toggle Navigation News Events TNW Conference 2024 June 20 & 21, 2024 TNW Vision: 2024 All events Spaces Programs Newsletters Partner with us Jobs Contact News news news news Latest Deep tech Sustainability Ecosystems Data and security Fintech and ecommerce Future of work More Startups and technology Investors and funding Government and policy Corporates and innovation Gadgets & apps Early bird Business passes are 90% SOLD OUT 🎟️ Buy now before they are gone → This article was published on June 14, 2023 Deep tech Mistral AI secures €105M in Europe’s largest-ever seed round Leading VC says new generation of global players will emerge from European ecosystem The artificial intelligence hype shows no sign of fading just yet, and investors are practically falling over themselves to fund the next big thing in AI. Yesterday, Paris-based startup Mistral AI announced it had secured €105mn in what is reportedly Europe’s largest-ever seed round.
Mistral AI was founded only four weeks ago, by a trio of AI researchers. Arthur Mensch, the company’s CEO, was formerly employed by Google’s DeepMind. His co-founders, Timothée Lacroix (CTO) and Guillaume Lample (Chief Science Officer), previously worked for Meta.
The company has yet to develop its first product. However, on a mission to “make AI useful,” it plans to launch a large language model (LLM) similar to the system behind OpenAI’s ChatGPT in early 2024.
A large part of the funds raised will be used towards renting the computer power to train it. The idea is to only use publicly available data to avoid the legal issues and copyright backlash faced by others in the industry.
The <3 of EU tech The latest rumblings from the EU tech scene, a story from our wise ol' founder Boris, and some questionable AI art. It's free, every week, in your inbox. Sign up now! While Mistral hopes to take on OpenAI with actual open-sourced models and data sets, it is setting itself apart from the Microsoft-backed step-change initiator by targeting enterprises instead of consumers. The company says its goal is to help business clients improve processes around R&D, customer care, and marketing, as well as giving them the tools to build new products with AI.
Vision coupled with hands-on experience The funding round is led by Lightspeed Venture Partners. The VC’s partner, Antoine Moyroud, says that Lightspeed has had the opportunity to meet with several talented researchers-turned-founders in AI, but few had a vision beyond the technical field.
Mensch, Lacroix and Lample, on the other hand, according to Moyroud, are “part of a group of select few globally who have both the technical understanding required to build out their own vision along with the hands-on experience of training and operating large language models at scale.” Generally, the American VC says it believes that Europe has “a decisive role” to play in the AI field. Just in September last year, the firm opened up new offices in London, Berlin, and Paris, and says it is looking to partner with more European founders of the same ambition behind Mistral.
“Our investment in Mistral, and all our portfolio companies in Europe, are evidence of our firm conviction that a new generation of global players will emerge from this ecosystem,” Lightspeed said in a statement.
JCDecaux Holding, Motier Ventures, La Famiglia, Headline, Exor Ventures, Sofina, First Minute Capital, and LocalGlobe also participated in the round, along with private investors including French billionaires Rodolphe Saadé and Xavier Niel, as well as former Google CEO Eric Schmidt and French investment bank BpiFrance.
Story by Linnea Ahlgren Linnea is the senior editor at TNW, having joined in April 2023. She has a background in international relations and covers clean and climat (show all) Linnea is the senior editor at TNW, having joined in April 2023. She has a background in international relations and covers clean and climate tech, AI and the politics of technology. But first, coffee.
Get the TNW newsletter Get the most important tech news in your inbox each week.
Also tagged with Startup company AI Story by Linnea Ahlgren Popular articles 1 New erotic roleplaying chatbots promise to indulge your sexual fantasies 2 UK plan to lead in generative AI ‘unrealistic,’ say Cambridge researchers 3 New AI tool could make future vaccines ‘variant-proof,’ researchers say 4 3D-printed stem cells could help treat brain injuries 5 New technique makes AI hallucinations wake up and face reality Related Articles deep tech AI is transforming the English dictionary data security Deepfake fraud attempts are up 3000% in 2023 — here’s why Join TNW All Access Watch videos of our inspiring talks for free → sustainability 140-year-old ocean heat tech could supply islands with limitless energy ecosystems How Valencia’s fast-growing startup ecosystem is thriving The heart of tech More TNW Media Events Programs Spaces Newsletters Jobs in tech About TNW Partner with us Jobs Terms & Conditions Cookie Statement Privacy Statement Editorial Policy Masthead Copyright © 2006—2023, The Next Web B.V. Made with <3 in Amsterdam.
