Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: Synthetic fraud losses expected to double to nearly $5B by 2024 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Synthetic identity fraud schemes have taken the United States by storm over the past 20 years, and are expected to generate nearly $5 billion in financial losses by 2024.
Synthetic fraud is no longer a surprise attack on America’s financial and commerce systems — while the earliest fraudulent identities were completely fake, and many of the patterns used to establish synthetic identities early on are still being used today. Fortunately, the patterns of synthetic fraud are well understood and the profiles of manipulated and fabricated subtypes have been teased out, which will aid in stopping synthetic fraud in its tracks.
Socure’s recent report examined years of tagged fabricated synthetic fraud data to identify patterns by name, demographics, habits, location and other behaviors to help guide organizations’ approaches to identifying and combating synthetic fraud.
In analyzing the patterns for first names and surnames, it noticed very common choices, which led the company to believe that bad actors are strategically creating synthetic identities to blend in with the population. The goal to “blend in” doesn’t stop at names. It’s a trait shared by the remainder of patterns tied to these fabricated synthetic identities as well, including age, location, residence and more.
When combining the most popular first name for synthetic identities with the most popular surname for synthetic identities, we established the most common full name for synthetic identities: Michael Smith.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Synthetic fraud will continue to plague the industry for the next several years. The only way to completely solve for synthetic fraud is to work together as an industry to stop the damage that bad actors are committing against consumers and our financial system.
Read the full report from Socure.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
