Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages NoSQL database company Couchbase confidentially files for IPO Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Couchbase homepage Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
( Reuters ) — Database software firm Couchbase has registered for a stock market debut that could come in the first half of this year and value it at as much as $3 billion, according to people familiar with the matter.
The company has achieved more than $100 million in annual revenue, one of the sources said. The sources requested anonymity because the initial public offering (IPO) filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is confidential and has not yet been made public.
Couchbase declined to comment.
Couchbase helps corporate customers such as Comcast and eBay manage databases on web and mobile applications through its NoSQL cloud database service. It has thrived as demand for data storage and processing has soared because of remote working during the COVID-19 pandemic.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Founded in 2011, Couchbase has raised $294 million from investors thus far. It last raised $105 million at a valuation of $580 million in May 2020, according to PitchBook data. GPI Capital, North Bridge Venture Partners, and Accel are among its backers.
The company had eyed an IPO back in 2016, after it raised $30 million. It said at the time it expected that to be its last round before going public.
MongoDB, another database company and a competitor of Couchbase, went public in 2017 and now commands a $20 billion market capitalization. Snowflake, a cloud-based data-warehousing company, went public last year at a $33 billion valuation, the largest software IPO in history.
The U.S. IPO market remains welcoming, with 62 operating companies listed so far this year, according to data provider Refinitiv.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
