Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Call of Duty shows off more of its new take on World War II Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Call of Duty livestream Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Sledgehammer Games unveiled more details about the upcoming Call of Duty: WWII during a livestream today on Facebook.
Speaking on “Making Call of Duty,” senior creative director Bret Robbins answered questions from gamers about what the game will include when it debuts on the consoles and the PC in November. Asked whether it would include scenes from The Battle of the Bulge , Robbins said yes.
Call of Duty: WWII promises to be an unflinching portrait of the combat experience of the last world war, as a squad of soldiers witness in the fabled U.S. Army’s 1st Infantry Division , or the Fighting First. Activision and Sledgehammer have already revealed that the game will involve scenes such as the landing at Omaha Beach during the invasion of Normandy, as well as the battle of the Hürtgen Forest in Germany.
“It was a huge battle,” said Robbins, referring to The Battle of the Bulge, when Germany tried its last bid at an offensive in the West in 1944. “We had to include it.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! He also said the game will have bloody scenes, as the intent is to “show what war was really like.” But he declined to say whether you’ll be able to play as Axis soldiers in the single-player campaign. (We already know that you’ll be able to play as Germans in multiplayer). He said they would leave that one a “mystery” for now.
Above: Alison Haislip quizzes Bret Robbins of Sledgehammer Games.
Sledgehammer cofounder Glen Schofield said previously that the game would recognize the humanity on both sides.
“We also make a distinction between the SS and the German regular army. We have a moment in the game, an important moment, where a German soldier helps you. Later on you’re trying to rescue a German family, a mother and her daughters. You don’t want to see them hurt. There’s a humanity that we read about a lot that we wanted to get in there. We didn’t want to portray people purely as monsters,” Schofield said.
Asked if the game would have “health regeneration,” a common thing in video games that isn’t very realistic, Robbins also declined to answer.
Host Alison Haislip held the event at Sledgehammer’s motion-capture studio, where 60 cameras captured the movements of actors such as Jeffrey Pierce, who played First Lieutenant Joseph Turner in the game. The actors spent more than 18 months shooting scenes that the animators turned into animated sequences in the game.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
