Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages RunwayML raises $8.5 million for its AI-powered media creation tools Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
RunwayML , a Brooklyn-based startup building a library of AI-powered tools for designers, artists, and other creators, has raised $8.5 million in venture capital. The company says the funds will be used to accelerate its go-to-market efforts as looks to increase the size of its product development teams.
Runway CEO Cristóbal Valenzuela argues that for decades, the over $2.1 trillion media industry has relied on “incremental iterations” of familiar old tools. While some of those tools have become “smarter” in recent years, they’re rooted in an outdated paradigm reliant on expensive, time-consuming processes. Corporate videos of all types range from $500 to $10,000 per finished minute — minutes that take days, weeks, or even months to produce.
“Deep learning techniques are bringing a new paradigm to content creation with synthetic media and automation,” Valenzuela told VentureBeat via email. “With Runway, we’re building the backbone of that creative revolution — allowing creators to do things that were impossible until very recently.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Toward that end, Runway, which started as a thesis project at New York University’s (NYU) Tisch School of the Arts, hosts a range of media-focused machine leaning and editing tools. For example, its green screen and generative media web apps cut objects out of videos and synthesize unique images and videos that can be used in both new and existing projects.
Runway also provides development tools that let users create, upload, and share custom machine learning models from any web browser. Using the platform’s model training and hosted models modules, developers can train AI models and access them via an API to incorporate them into third-party apps.
To date, Runway says that its community, which includes designers at IBM, Google, New Balance, and others, have trained more than 50,000 AI models and uploaded over 24 million assets to the platform. In one high-profile example, the band Yacht tapped Runway to make assets for their Grammy-nominated album Chain Tripping.
New York-based Runway, which was founded in 2018 by Valenzuela, Anastasis Germanidis, Alejandro Matamala Ortiz, and researchers from New York University, Disney Research, IBM Research, Linode, and Stanford University, has raised over $10 million to date. (The startup nabbed a previously undisclosed $2 million seed tranche in December 2018.) Amplify Partners led the series A round, with participation from Lux Capital and Compound Ventures.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
