Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Monnai bags $6.5M funding to promote AI-driven decisioning to FinTechs Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn 3/8 AI FinTech story Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Monnai , a provider of a consumer insights platform for financial organizations, has announced a series A funding round of $6.5 million. The company will use the funding to bolster its AI-driven decisioning capabilities.
The round was led by Tiger Global, with participation from existing investors including Better Tomorrow Ventures, 500 Global and Emphasis Ventures (EMVC). The new investment brings the total raised by Monnai to nearly $10 million.
The company provides a global infrastructure that delivers customer insights to financial organizations that need to make better informed decisions for client lifecycle management.
“The challenge is to get access to the insights that will inform decisions across silos and use cases and in as many useful ways as possible,” said Monnai CEO and cofounder Pierre Demarche.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Multiple global data sources Monnai’s platform integrates multiple data sources from around the world to help its own customers navigate regulatory landscapes and battle fraud. Its adaptive infrastructure delivers four decision-making modules — customer view, trust and fraud risk, AI-driven decisioning for credit risk and collections optimization — through a single API.
The company’s technologies enable low code/no code dynamic aggregation, normalization and contextualization of data sets. This helps to break down silos and borders, leading to faster ingestion, modeling and implementation of alternative data.
In the past six months, Monnai has focused on expanding its capabilities in AI and customer experience. The company launched its first AI-driven decisioning engine, which uses rules and supervised models to detect synthetic identities, such as fake digital identities used by fraudsters. This helps its customers identify specific fraud attempts — such as promotion abuse and new account fraud — that have historically been challenging.
Monnai has also been developing new explainable AI (XAI) features, which will provide more granular and personalized reason codes for transactions. The company has also added new complex modeling techniques , including unsupervised ML, to further enhance the platform’s performance.
Tooling includes a graph-based user dashboard to reduce the complexities of manual investigation for fraud risk and credit risk analysts. This UI allows users to identify risk factors in a single view within a few seconds.
With the new funding, Monnai plans to enhance its business capabilities in emerging markets and continue developing its proprietary analytics and data ingestion capabilities, according to cofounder and chief product officer Ravish Patel.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
