Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: Orgs with zero-trust segmentation avoid 5 major cyberattacks annually Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn DDM 3/12/23. Multi-Factor Authentication Concept - MFA - Screen with Authentication Factors Surrounded by Digital Access and Identity Elements - Cybersecurity Solutions - 3D Illustration Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
A new report by Illumio found that organizations leveraging zero-trust segmentation avert five major cyberattacks annually, saving more than $20 million in downtime costs.
In the past two years, digital transformation has drastically expanded the attack surface. Where IT was once a walled-in, on-premises technology environment, a modern IT architecture now consists of on-prem, public and multiclouds. This surge in connectivity and growing hybrid complexity has led to a dramatic uptick in the number of vulnerable endpoints (i.e., laptops) and a widening attack surface. In fact, in the past two years alone, 76% of organizations have been the victim of a ransomware attack and 66% have experienced at least one software supply chain attack.
Most surprisingly, the report found that 47% of security leaders do not believe they will be breached — despite increasingly sophisticated and frequent attacks and rising zero-trust adoption rates (even though “assume breach” is a core principle of zero trust).
What’s more, the report uncovered that 81% of organizations agree that zero-trust segmentation plays a critical role in accelerating broader zero-trust efforts. According to ESG, organizations classified as advanced segmentation users were 2.1X more likely to have avoided a critical outage during an attack over the last 24 months. These organizations are also bolstering competitive advantages with 14 more cloud and digital transformation projects planned over the next 12 months.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! In short, the report is the latest to demonstrate that zero trust, and specifically zero-trust segmentation, are modern strategies to reduce risk and increase cyber resilience as the threat landscape continues to grow and evolve.
Illumio commissioned ESG to conduct a 1,000-person global study on the current state of Zero Trust strategies and the impact of zero-trust segmentation (ZTS), a rapidly emerging technology category and a modern approach to stop breaches from spreading across hybrid IT (from the cloud to the data center).
Read the full report by Illumio.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
