Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages OpenAI announces bug bounty program to address AI security risks Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
OpenAI , a leading artificial intelligence (AI) research lab, announced today the launch of a bug bounty program to help address growing cybersecurity risks posed by powerful language models like its own ChatGPT.
The program — run in partnership with the crowdsourced cybersecurity company Bugcrowd — invites independent researchers to report vulnerabilities in OpenAI’s systems in exchange for financial rewards ranging from $200 to $20,000 depending on the severity. OpenAI said the program is part of its “commitment to developing safe and advanced AI.” Concerns have mounted in recent months over vulnerabilities in AI systems that can generate synthetic text, images and other media. Researchers found a 135% increase in AI-enabled social engineering attacks from January to February, coinciding with the adoption of ChatGPT, according to AI cybersecurity firm DarkTrace.
While OpenAI’s announcement was welcomed by some experts, others said a bug bounty program is unlikely to fully address the wide range of cybersecurity risks posed by increasingly sophisticated AI technologies VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The program’s scope is limited to vulnerabilities that could directly impact OpenAI’s systems and partners. It does not appear to address broader concerns over malicious use of such technologies like impersonation, synthetic media or automated hacking tools. OpenAI did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
A bug bounty program with limited scope The bug bounty program comes amid a spate of security concerns, with GPT4 jailbreaks emerging, which enable users to develop instructions on how to hack computers and researchers discovering workarounds for “non-technical” users to create malware and phishing emails.
It also comes after a security researcher known as Rez0 allegedly used an exploit to hack ChatGPT’s API and discover over 80 secret plugins.
Given these controversies, launching a bug bounty platform provides an opportunity for OpenAI to address vulnerabilities in its product ecosystem, while situating itself as an organization acting in good faith to address the security risks introduced by generative AI.
Unfortunately, OpenAI’s bug bounty program is very limited in the scope of threats it addresses. For instance, the bug bounty program’s official page notes: “Issues related to the content of model prompts and responses are strictly out of scope, and will not be rewarded unless they have an additional directly verifiable security impact on an in-scope service.” Examples of safety issues which are considered to be out of scope include jailbreaks and safety bypasses, getting the model to “say bad things,” getting the model to write malicious code or getting the model to tell you how to do bad things.
In this sense, OpenAI’s bug bounty program may be good for helping the organization to improve its own security posture, but does little to address the security risks introduced by generative AI and GPT-4 for society at large.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
