Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages How ChatGPT can become a security expert’s copilot Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
With ChatGPT-4 released this week, security teams have been left to speculate over the impact that generative AI will have on the threat landscape. While many now know that GPT-3 can be used to generate malware and ransomware code, GPT-4 is 571X more powerful, creating the potential for a significant uptick in threats.
However, while the long term implications of generative AI remain to be seen, new research released today by cybersecurity vendor Sophos suggests that security teams can use GPT-3 to help defend against cyber attacks.
Sophos researchers — including Sophos AI’s principal data scientist Younghoo Lee — used GPT-3’s large language models to develop a natural language query interface for searching for malicious activity across XDR security tool telemetry, detect spam emails and analyze potential covert “living off the land” binary command lines.
More broadly, the Sophos’ research indicates that generative AI has an important role to play in processing security events in the SOC , so that defenders can better manage their workloads and detect threats faster.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Identifying malicious activity The announcement comes as more and more security teams are struggling to keep up with the volume of alerts generated by tools across the network, with 70% of SOC teams reporting that their home lives are being emotionally impacted by their work managing IT threat alerts.
“One of the growing concerns within security operation centers is the sheer amount of ‘noise’ coming in,” said Sean Gallagher, senior threat researcher at Sophos. “There are just too many notifications and detections to sort through, and many companies are dealing with limited resources. We’ve proved that, with something like GPT-3, we can simplify certain labor-intensive proxies and give back valuable time to defenders.” Sophos’ pilot demonstrates that security teams can use “few-shot learning” to train the GPT-3 language model with just a handful of data samples, without the need to collect and process a high amount of pre-classified data.
Using ChatGPT as a cybersecurity co-pilot In the study, researchers deployed a natural language query interface where a security analyst could filter the data collected by security tools for malicious activity by entering queries in plain text English.
For instance, the user could enter a command such as “show me all processes that were named powershelgl.exe and executed by the root user” and generate XDR-SQL queries from them without needing to understand the underlying database structure.
This approach provides defenders with the ability to filter for data without needing to use programming languages like SQL , while offering a “co-pilot” to help reduce the burden of searching for threat data manually.
“We are already working on incorporating some of the prototypes into our products, and we’ve made the results of our efforts available on our GitHub for those interested in testing GPT-3 in their own analysis environments,” said Gallagher. “In the future, we believe that GPT-3 may very well become a standard co-pilot for security experts.” It’s worth noting that researchers also found that using GPT-3 to filter threat data was much more efficient than using other alternative machine learning models. Given the release of GPT-4 and its superior processing capabilities, it’s likely this would be even quicker with the next iteration of generative AI.
While these pilots remain in their infancy, Sophos has released the results of the spam filtering and command line analysis tests on SophosAI’s GitHub page for other organizations to adapt.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
