Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Open source database company MariaDB confirms plans to go public Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn MariaDB Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Let the OSS Enterprise newsletter guide your open source journey! Sign up here.
MariaDB , the commercial company behind the popular open source database of the same name, has confirmed plans to become a public company through merging with a special purpose acquisition company (SPAC).
A drop-in MySQL replacement Major companies from Google and Red Hat to Samsung and Deutsche Bank have used MariaDB through the years for storing, managing, and manipulating data across their applications. The core open source MariaDB project emerged initially as a fork of MySQL, after MySQL project’s creators grew concerned about its independence after Sun Microsystems acquired MySQL in 2008, which in turn was bought out by Oracle one year later.
To this day, MariaDB retains a close affinity with MySQL, and is considered a “drop-in replacement” for companies seeking a fully open source alternative to MySQL.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Open source is a major selling point for investors and enterprises alike, as it typically attracts strong buy-in from developers — who increasingly drive purchasing decisions within companies — while it gives companies greater control of and visibility into their data.
Indeed, MariaDB is the latest in a long line of companies built on an open source foundation that have gone public, with the likes of data processing and analytics company Confluent becoming a $17 billion public company last year , while cloud computing infrastructure firm Hashicorp is now a $12 billion company following its December IPO.
MariaDB will hit the public markets via an existing New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)-listed SPAC called Angel Pond, which was set up by former Goldman Sachs partner, Theodore Wang, and Shihuang “Simon” Xie, an Alibaba cofounder. A SPAC, essentially, is a shell firm that raises money, goes public on a stock exchange, and then acquires a private company for the purpose of turning said private company into a public one — all while avoiding traditional IPO (initial public offering) processes.
Alongside the transaction, which gives MariaDB an enterprise valuation of $672 million, the company also secured $104 million in series D funding from new and existing investors.
Upon the transaction’s closing, which is expected in the second half of 2022, the combined entity will be called “MariaDB plc” and will be led by MariaDB’s current CEO Michael Howard.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
