Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Guest AI industry booming amid ‘tech recession’ Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Artificial intelligence Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
The Great Resignation is an economic trend we’ve seen throughout 2022. However, with an imminent recession , many have become worried about the future of hiring. Large, profitable tech companies have reported layoffs this year, with more job cuts expected. But although this trend may seem discouraging, the undercurrent is actually quite promising.
Within tech’s many sectors, some market segments, including artificial intelligence (AI) , are rapidly expanding and looking to bring in new perspectives. Times like these typically cause tension, but there are companies looking at the upside of what’s to come and putting plans in place for expansion.
Expanding the tech industry through advancements and hiring While reports circulate about downsized teams and lack of funding, this is not true for artificial intelligence. As we’ve seen over the last few years, AI has been a continuous hotspot, with the market set to increase by $ 76.44 billion by 2025, with an accelerated growth rate of more than 21% annually.
With the slew of amazing tech talent across the world and the growth of AI, there’s no doubt that there are numerous opportunities available for industry workers. That’s especially true if they begin to shift into new areas of the industry as companies pull back on hiring. This timing is giving AI a huge opportunity for expansion. Some of the world’s largest companies have been benefiting from the transformational power that AI has provided for years in areas including search, ad targeting and recommendations.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! As the technology has matured, new use cases have opened worlds of possibilities for startups and Fortune 500 companies alike. No longer a niche space, AI is growing at an unbelievable rate and bringing job opportunities to the table.
AI’s transformational power is profound, and we’ve seen a watershed moment in the past few months. The advancements have meant a seismic shift in technology — away from traditional development and towards something entirely new, changing technology as we know it.
AI offering opportunity amid layoffs in other tech sectors AI is the light at the end of the tunnel in tech right now. Companies, including Meta, are no longer supporting projects that lose money; instead, they are making room for growth in their AI research and VR labs. While the rest of the industry may be downsizing, it’s important to look at how far AI has come and see the opportunities available in this ever-changing market. With the amount of amazing tech talent across the world, individuals should begin shifting their focus to see what the AI industry has to offer.
Future of the tech industry We may not know what the future holds in terms of layoffs and the job force, but based on previous events and economist insight, it’s likely the tech market will change in a coming recession. AI will undoubtedly change, but it will continue to make positive strides, including language translation, conversational AI, facial recognition, targeted advertising and much more.
Seeing how the tech industry comes out of the recession will be interesting. While there are some recession-proof companies, the recession may still affect them in some ways. On the other hand, a handful of creative and evolving technologies will be put to the test in the next few months; we’ll see if they can withstand the recession and what’s to come.
The sense of security that the tech industry once had is also beginning to dwindle as workers lose confidence in job reliability and stability. As some of the largest tech companies in the world are already laying off workers, many are wondering what will happen once the recession hits.
Remaining hopeful in an evolving industry There is no lack of funding in AI at the moment, but when choosing a funding partner, it’s vital to make sure the partner embraces and supports the same long-term plans as the company, such as leveraging advances in AI and being strategic when it comes to hiring plans.
Now more than ever, sticking to first principles and being pragmatic about how we execute this vision during a time of extreme uncertainty is undoubtedly the right approach. It’s right to go back to the older and more realistic realities of valuing revenue, people, customers and cost awareness. While no industry will survive a recession unscathed, the tech industry is extremely dynamic and will have no problem adapting.
Nick Lynes is cofounder and co-CEO at Flawless DataDecisionMakers Welcome to the VentureBeat community! DataDecisionMakers is where experts, including the technical people doing data work, can share data-related insights and innovation.
If you want to read about cutting-edge ideas and up-to-date information, best practices, and the future of data and data tech, join us at DataDecisionMakers.
You might even consider contributing an article of your own! Read More From DataDecisionMakers The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! DataDecisionMakers Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
