Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: Privileged access management still absent in 80% of organizations Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Nearly 80% of organizations have not implemented — or have only partially implemented — a privileged access management solution.
As organizations become increasingly internet-reliant and networked technical environments, they are faced with defending against evolving ransomware attacks.
Early ransomware attacks primarily targeted organizational data; however, attacks are progressively overtaking systems and networks, which is especially troublesome for the stability of critical infrastructure.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Using data from 100 organizations across multiple critical infrastructure sectors, Axio researchers identified seven key areas where organizations are deficient in implementing and sustaining basic cybersecurity measures. Overwhelmingly, the most concerning finding was a pervasive lack of basic controls over privileged credentials and access — nearly 80% of organizations have not implemented or have only partially implemented privileged access management.
While an element of ransomware exposure is due to factors outside of an organization’s direct control, from a lack of sufficient technologies to employees falling victim to phishing schemes, this report reveals shockingly common failures of basic cybersecurity practices and indicates that highly impactful improvements in ransomware protection may be directly obtained by improving basic cyber hygiene.
Read the full report by Axio.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
