Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 76% of organizations have had an API security incident in the past year Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
APIs are the lifeblood of digital transformation and lie at the heart of corporate strategies for growth and innovation. Nearly all businesses rely on APIs to connect services, transfer data and control key systems. In fact, APIs now drive mission-critical processes across organizations.
The exploding adoption of APIs has also greatly expanded organizations’ attack surfaces, increasing the need for enterprises to focus on API security.
 But as organizations transition into a multitude of cloud, hybrid and on-premises digital environments, this complexity makes it difficult for security teams to find and fix problems quickly.
In July 2022, Noname Security commissioned a survey from the independent research organization, Opinion Matters, to better understand the state of the API security environment and to examine the challenges facing organizations.
High-level findings Noname’s research uncovered a level of complacency and potential denial around the risks that APIs present. While 76% of respondents surveyed said that they had experienced an API security incident, there were also high levels of confidence in their existing solutions, with 67% saying they were happy with the protection provided and the API security provided by either CSPs or specialist security providers. A majority, 71%, stated that they were confident and satisfied that they were receiving sufficient API protection.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! There is clearly a disconnect between what is happening in the real world and organizational attitudes towards API security. The level of misplaced confidence around API security is disproportionately high in comparison to the number and severity of API-related breaches. This points to the need for further education by security, appsec and development teams around the realities of API security.
Overall, the research exposed a disconnect between the high level of incidents, the low levels of visibility, effective monitoring and testing of the API environment, and a level of over-confidence that their tools and providers were preventing attacks.
Methodology 600 senior cybersecurity professionals in the USA and U.K. were surveyed from across a variety of enterprise organizations in six key vertical market sectors: financial services, retail and ecommerce, healthcare, government and public sector, manufacturing, and energy and utilities.
Read the full report from Noname Security.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
