Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Analysis Cybereason launches new automated incident response solution Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Today, XDR provider Cybereason announced the launch of Cybereason DFIR (Digital Forensics Incident Response), a tool that can conduct automated incident response to and security attacks automatically.
The solution uses the Cybereason MalOp Detection Engine to detect the root cause of security breaches in an enterprise environment, while gathering intelligence on how to remediate the threat more effectively.
Automated incident response gives enterprises the ability to maintain visibility over their environments and ensure they’re in a position to respond to security incidents in the shortest time possible.
Keeping up with modern cyber crime The launch of Cybereason DFIR comes as more organizations are finding it difficult to keep up with the speed of modern cyber threats, with 1,862 data breaches recorded last year, an increase of 68% from the year before.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Cybereason is aiming to help organizations combat data breaches by providing them with automated threat detection and incident response so that security analysts have less manual admin to manage when responding to intrusions.
“Cybereason DFIR enhances the performance of the Cybereason XDR Platform in our customers’ environments enabling security analyst teams to detect, identify, analyze and respond to sophisticated threats before adversaries can inflict harm, and when needed, conduct a thorough post-mortem analysis of a complex incident,” said Cybereason Chief Technology Officer and Co-founder Yonatan Striem-Amit.
“The merging of our powerful Cybereason XDR Platform with Cybereason DFIR provides the industry with the most powerful tools available.” Striem-Amit said.
The global XDR market The organization is competing within the global XDR market , which researchers expect will reach a value of $2.06 billion by 2028, growing at a 19.9% CAGR from 2021 to 2028 as more organizations seek to mitigate ever more complex IT security risks.
Cybereason is competing against a number of other popular solution providers including Crowdstrike with Falcon XDR that offers analytics for automatically detecting cover threats, and gives security analysts the ability to write and edit detection rules. To date, CrowdStrike has achieved a market cap of $50 billion.
Another competitor is IBM , with IBM Security QRadar XDR, with AI-driven root cause analysis, MITRE ATT&CK mapping, and automated triaging. IBM recently announced gross profit of $9.5 billion.
However, Cybereason is aiming to differentiate itself from these providers with its broad data ingestion and MalOp detection solution, which has the capability to detect advanced attack techniques.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
