Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: Ransomware attack frequency and amount demanded down in H1 2022 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
According to a new report from Coalition , ransomware attack frequency and cost are down. From H2 2021 to H1 2022, ransomware payment demands decreased from $1.37 million to $896,000. Of the incidents that resulted in a payment, Coalition policyholders paid an average of roughly 20% the initial amount demanded. As organizations become more aware of ransomware, they have implemented better controls, allowing them to restore operations without paying.
Over the last three years, cyberattacks have evolved into a viable criminal business model, with ransomware gangs holding all-sized organizations hostage in exchange for exorbitant fees. In 2022, many of the top ransomware variants could be directly associated with or leased from the Conti ransomware gang, such as Karakurt — a known data extortion arm of Conti. The FBI estimates that attacks associated with Conti have had payouts exceeding $150 million, making Conti the costliest strain of ransomware ever.
While ransomware has declined, the report by Coalition, 2022 Cyber Claims: Mid-year Update, found that phishing has become one of the most common attack vectors that result in cyber insurance claims –- accounting for nearly 60% of claims, increasing 32% from 2021.
Coalition also observed that phishing often leads to FTF events, where threat actors steal funds by redirecting or changing payment instructions. FTF severity increased by 3% in 2022, demonstrating consistent annual three-year growth.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! As attack methods shift, small businesses (SMBs) are still in the crosshairs. The average claim cost for an SMB increased 58% compared to 2021. As SMBs continue their digital evolution, they increase their dependence on third-party vendors for technology tools. This reliance often makes SMBs more vulnerable because they lack the necessary resources to invest in their security.
Coalition’s report stems from an aggregation of claims and incident data from the 160,000+ organizations it protects. This report examined claims data from Coalition’s North American policyholders, including the highest profile claim events and cyberattacks , during the first half of 2022.
Read the full report by Coalition.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
