Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Striim Cloud is a fully-managed SaaS for streaming data integration and analytics Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Striim's team Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Striim , the company behind a real-time data streaming and integration platform, has launched a new fully-managed SaaS (software-as-a-service) platform that removes many of the hassles involved in managing the data infrastructure.
Founded in 2012, Striim counts big-name customers such as Google, Gartner and Macy’s, who use the platform and its automated connectors to integrate and build real-time data pipelines from myriad sources, such as Salesforce, log files, messaging systems, IoT sensors and enterprise databases.
Data streaming, for the uninitiated, is all about harnessing and processing data with millisecond latency from myriad sources as it’s generated — this can be useful if a company wants insights into sales as they’re happening, for example. This runs contrary to batch data processing, which is concerned with processing and integrating data in “batches” at fixed intervals — this could be helpful for generating weekly or monthly sales reports, or any job that isn’t time-sensitive.
Large-scale data Prior to now, Striim’s customers would generally deploy Striim in containers or as virtual machines in their own data center or virtual private cloud (VPC) in AWS, Azure, or Google Cloud. However, this involved having to manage everything themselves, including storage, networking, and security — this is where Striim Cloud enters the fray.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Palo Alto, California-based Striim first debuted Striim Cloud in private preview for its existing self-managed customers in early 2021 , shortly before raising a $50 million tranche of funding.
 And today, Striim Cloud is being made available to one and all, replete with full automatic version upgrades, security, backups and more.
“Handling and analyzing large-scale data for real-time decision-making and operations is an ongoing challenge for every enterprise — one that is only going to become more challenging as more data sources come online,” Striim founder and CEO Ali Kutay said in a statement. “These challenges are driving digital transformation. Striim Cloud is a powerful, cloud-based, SaaS platform that gives enterprises worldwide an invaluable advantage in reaching this goal.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
