Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 85% of employees want a hybrid work model Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
As companies strategize ways to bring employees back to the office, business leaders are faced with questions around how to build a work environment that encourages and empowers employees to be productive, collaborative and innovative.
A new report by Condeco polled 1,500 of current employees in the United States to get a pulse on the attitudes towards hybrid work and how these feelings are impacting businesses’ acclimation to the future of the working world. Its findings address business leaders’ most pressing questions regarding the rising adoption of hybrid and remote work, with data indicating that 85% of respondents want to go hybrid.
However, while the adoption of hybrid work makes sense, business leaders still need to understand how best practices can be obtained, with which tools and in which manner.
Hybrid models are quickly becoming the agreed future but effectively transitioning to this new work behavior takes proper technology. In fact, Condeco’s report found that having the right digital tools is a top priority to ensure effective hybrid work among respondents, but only 51% agree their company is using the right tools to support flexible work. What’s worse, only 50% of respondents feel their company is open to feedback about their digital tool stack.
The role of technology in a hybrid model is not only to give employees the flexibility to decide how and where they work, but to bring people and departments together.
Employee experience is a top priority – and technology can make the difference between a positive and negative one, in how they communicate, collaborate, and connect. Many employees see technology as a platform for achieving digital equity for those in and out of the office, breaking down organizational siloes, and strengthening interpersonal relationships. Condeco’s report even found that 68% of respondents agree “achieving digital equality for virtual and in-room participants” is vital to ensuring effective collaboration can continue when hybrid working.
The writing is on the wall: hybrid work is now non-negotiable. Technology is the mean by which this new business model can be created and sustained, and Condeco’s findings highlight an urgent need to prioritize what makes up the backbone of this flexible work model – workplace technology.
Read the full report by Condeco.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
