Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: Tech spending is holding strong, though priorities shifting Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Despite ongoing economic uncertainty, the majority of CXOs – 54% – plan to increase their total technology budgets for next year, and more than 75% plan to increase their budgets in the next five years.
Technology startups have been on edge lately as financial markets have whipsawed, and many investors have become more discerning about the companies they fund. But a recent survey from Battery Ventures of 100 technology buyers across industries revealed that while companies are changing their tech-buying habits, their overall budgets won’t shrink — in fact, most budgets are expanding or will continue to expand in the next year and beyond.
Among the few buyers who will reduce technology budgets, the approach will center on vendor consolidation and entail streamlining usage, rather than reducing headcount or optimizing SaaS licensing.
As priorities have changed and clarified, technology buyers report a renewed interest in security , data , development tools and artificial intelligence/machine learning.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Where tech spending is going Long-term sales prospects are similarly positive for enterprise tech startups in those fields. The vast majority of survey respondents report plans to increase budgets in the next five years for the following: Security (92%) Data (84%) Dev tools (69%) AI/ML (79%) The State of Cloud Software Spending survey also explores trends in software adoption and procurement, finding that approval times for enterprise contracts are either unchanged or slowed down. Interestingly, bottoms-up adoption of software tools is playing a larger role at development/testing phases, with more and more engineers allowed to self-select tools. Overall, the landscape of software spending appears to be very resilient, despite ongoing economic uncertainty.
Methodology The Battery Ventures Cloud Software Spending Survey explores the technology purchasing planning of 100 chief technology officers, chief information officers, chief information security officers and other technology buyers across industries from financial services to healthcare to manufacturing, representing roughly $29B in annual technology spend. Responses were collected online and in follow-up calls from August 5 to August 10, 2022.
Read the full report from Battery Ventures.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
