Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: Company DEI initiatives positively impacted by increased data and insights measurement Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Diversity matters Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Tech for Progress 360: Taking diversity, equity, and inclusion [DEI] from ambition to reality, a new research report from Genpact , gathers insights from 510 senior executives from large global enterprises across industries. The study finds that nearly all executives surveyed (95%) say that their companies accelerated their digital technology rollout in response to the pandemic , with the need to quickly adapt to remote working models.
When asked about the impact of remote working on their organization’s business, 38% of respondents say changing to remote working had a positive impact on their DEI goals.
The research revealed that best practices organizations’ use of data and analytics play an important role in supporting and advancing company DEI initiatives. Many organizations continue to struggle making progress on DEI initiatives. The study provides a roadmap for organizations that are further behind the front runners.
How do front runner organizations use data and insights to make better decisions concerning DEI? Measurement is key, with 51% of respondents saying their organizations use data and insight to measure the impact of DEI. These insights can be leveraged to redirect as needed to improve DEI results.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! This was followed by using data and analytics to understand the strength of people’s professional networks (42%), improve the ability to recruit and retain people from underrepresented communities (40%) and reduce bias in decision-making, also at 40%. The study finds that inclusion front runners use their capabilities with data and insights to get to the bottom of the complex cultural elements that are core to fully embedding DEI across all activities, decisions and objectives.
Methodology Genpact and FORTUNE Brand Studio conducted an online survey of 500 senior executives across the U.S., U.K., Germany, Australia, Japan, and Canada in the fall of 2021. About 30% of respondents hold C-level positions, and the remainder are director-level or above.
Read the full report from Genpact.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
