Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts A new app might help researchers monitor the spread of coronavirus By Charlotte Jee archive page A phone with the Covid Symptom Tracker app open Covid Symptom Tracker The news: A new app set to launch in the US tomorrow will help researchers better understand coronavirus by tracking its spread in real time. The app, called Covid Symptom Tracker , is already available in the UK and has been downloaded by over 750,000 people.
What’s it for? It was developed by King’s College London to monitor coronavirus symptoms in participants of a decades-long study into thousands of twins and their families, in order to discern whether genes play a role. However, it has since been opened up to the general public. The idea is that by collecting data from lots of people and linking symptoms with underlying health conditions, researchers can get a better grasp of how fast the virus is spreading in certain areas, where hot spots are, and who is most at risk. Crucially, it could help us understand why some people become dangerously unwell with coronavirus while others experience only a mild illness.
You can read all our coverage of the coronavirus/Covid-19 outbreak for free, and also sign up for our coronavirus newsletter.
 But please consider subscribing to support our nonprofit journalism.
How does it work? Those who register are asked for their name; where they live; their height, age, and weight; any existing medical conditions like asthma or diabetes; and whether they take drugs like immunosuppressants or ibuprofen, or use a wheelchair. Participants are then asked if they’ve had a coronavirus test, how they’re feeling currently, and if they’re experiencing symptoms like coughing, headaches, or breathing problems. People are asked to log answers to these last three questions every day. The researchers who developed the app promise the data will be “used strictly for public health or academic research” and “will not be used commercially or sold.” The potential: Obviously, the app is only going to be useful if there are enough participants to draw meaningful conclusions. But with enough data, researchers think it could help provide an early warning of where symptoms are clustering, and thus where outbreaks may be starting. It could be even more effective if combined with data gathered from other sources, like a recent survey conducted by Google on behalf of Carnegie Mellon University, or perhaps data from an app developed by South Korea’s government, which let citizens report their symptoms.
hide by Charlotte Jee Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 Zeyi Yang How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Deep Dive Biotechnology and health Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Artificial wombs are nearing human trials. But the goal is to save the littlest preemies, not replace the uterus.
By Cassandra Willyard archive page Some deaf children in China can hear after gene therapy treatment After deafness treatment, Yiyi can hear her mother and dance to the music. But why is it so noisy at night? By Antonio Regalado archive page Zeyi Yang archive page Scientists just drafted an incredibly detailed map of the human brain A massive suite of papers offers a high-res view of the human and non-human primate brain.
By Cassandra Willyard archive page How AI can help us understand how cells work—and help cure diseases A virtual cell modeling system, powered by AI, will lead to breakthroughs in our understanding of diseases, argue the cofounders of the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative.
By Priscilla Chan archive page Mark Zuckerberg archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
