Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages IBM: Most companies not prepared for digital transformation Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
For all the hype around the push for cloud computing and data-driven strategies, many large and mid-sized companies are still struggling to make the transition to new digital tools.
According to a new study from IBM , 60% of 310 CIOs and CTOs in the U.S. and U.K. said their “IT modernization program is not yet ready for the future.” Worse, almost 1 in 4 said their company has just begun modernizing its IT infrastructure.
The numbers point to the immense challenges enterprises still face in conceiving and selling internal strategies around digital transformation. But companies that delay risk falling behind more nimble competitors or upstarts.
Of course, for IBM and others that sell infrastructure and services designed to boost such digital makeovers, the numbers point to an immense opportunity to help companies achieve the most basic advances.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! In this case, the study reported 95% of these same IT leaders said they want to adopt some kind of cloud strategy.
 Across the board, they cited the desire to leverage tools like AI , automation, and data as a motivation for overhauling their IT. Among the benefits, a majority said such cloud-based strategies would help them be more competitive, save money, and increase their global reach.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
