Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 50% of leaders say their data should contribute to ESG initiatives Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Hand holding green piggybank in a green field.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Driven by the convergence of changing economic circumstances, data and AI , businesses today face a whirlwind of new pressures in the wake of the global pandemic — everything from increasing customer demands and a talent shortage, to, most notably, a workforce no longer empowered by profit but by purpose.
Not only is the workforce now deeply purpose-driven, but they largely demand a new approach to leadership: one that blends human traits, like empathy, with a data-driven mindset. Employees at all levels believe that doing good pairs with driving profit — both decision-makers and knowledge workers agree that at least 50% of the data their company uses on a day-to-day basis should be focused on doing good for the communities it serves, according to a new report by Cloudera.
As a result, leaders are acting, with 26% of business decision-makers increasing investment in environmental, social and governance (ESG) ahead of developing new products/services (24%) or accelerating financial growth (21%). This trend indicates that profit and ESG are no longer mutually exclusive pursuits.
Using big data and AI to make more sustainable business decisions will be a critical aspect of competitiveness as businesses look to overcome modern-day pressures. Businesses that wish to prevail will have to redefine success beyond profit alone and increase focus on creating real environmental impact. Those that fail to act for social good will inevitably put their business growth and ability to attract talent at risk.
The great news is that advances in technology can provide solutions to these challenges, while also helping to achieve traditional business objectives. For leaders and executives, this means it’s time to refocus on technology investment — identifying not only the data that will support growth, but also help employees gain meaningful access to it.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! For its report, Cloudera surveyed 2,213 enterprise business decision-makers — including 54% C-suite representation — and 10,880 knowledge workers in the U.S., EMEA, India and APAC. The study shows that companies who are ready to accelerate their technology strategy now, while supporting investment in ESG, will have a significant advantage over their competitors in the long term.
Read the full report by Cloudera.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
