Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts DeepMind’s Groundbreaking AlphaGo Zero AI Is Now a Versatile Gamer By Jamie Condliffe archive page Don’t challenge this algorithm to a board game. Because chances are it can learn to outsmart you inside a day.
Earlier this year, we reported that Alphabet’s machine-learning subsidiary, DeepMind, had made a huge advance. Using an artificial-intelligence approach known as reinforcement learning, it had enabled its AlphaGo software to develop superhuman skills for the game of Go without needing human data. Armed with just the rules of the game, the AI was able to make random plays until it developed champion-beating strategies. The new software was dubbed AlphaGo Zero because it didn’t need any human input.
Now, in a paper published on arXiv , the DeepMind team reports that the software has been generalized so that it can learn other games. It describes two new examples in which AlphaGo Zero was unleashed on the games of chess and shogi, a Japanese game that’s similar to chess. In both cases the software was able to develop superhuman skills within 24 hours, and then “convincingly defeated a world-champion program.” It’s perhaps not too surprising that the AI was able to pick up killer skills for the two games so quickly: both chess and shogi are less complex than Go. But DeepMind’s ability to generalize the software, so that it can master different games, hints at increasingly adaptable kinds of machine intelligence.
That said, there are still games that AI hasn’t yet mastered. Perhaps the biggest challenge—which DeepMind is already working on—lies in massively complex online strategy games like Starcraft, which humans are still superior at.
 As we’ve explained in the past , machines will need to develop new skills, such as memory and planning, in order to steal away that crown. But don’t expect it to take too long.
hide by Jamie Condliffe Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 Zeyi Yang How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Deep Dive Artificial intelligence This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI The tool, called Nightshade, messes up training data in ways that could cause serious damage to image-generating AI models.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 With just a few minutes of sample video and $1,000, brands never have to stop selling their products.
By Zeyi Yang archive page Driving companywide efficiencies with AI Advanced AI and ML capabilities revolutionize how administrative and operations tasks are done.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page Rogue superintelligence and merging with machines: Inside the mind of OpenAI’s chief scientist An exclusive conversation with Ilya Sutskever on his fears for the future of AI and why they’ve made him change the focus of his life’s work.
By Will Douglas Heaven archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
