Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Digital transformation spending is up to $700B per year, but results lag Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Annually, an estimated $700 billion in digital transformation spending falls short of delivering on the desired results. The solution: a holistic approach that combines a practical understanding of how to apply organizational change management, some degree of experience operationalizing digital transformation programs, and, most importantly, the right Digital Adoption Platform (DAP). Separating a great plan from great execution is the DAP — it is the part of the process that most organizations execute well, according to a WalkMe -commissioned report by Futurum Research on the current state of digital technology adoption.
Digital transformation is a complex, daunting endeavor for even the most technology-forward companies. Prior to technology entering the picture, defining and executing operational change is hard. Transformation requires vision, roadmaps, complex change management, process development, best practices, training, trial and error, and enormous amounts of time and energy.
The average enterprise organization has over 200 applications in its technology stack. Complicating matters is the two-year application turnover rate applied to about 60% of the stack. While 42% of organizations rate the lack of technical knowledge and skills as their number one barrier to successful digital transformation, as many as 54% of companies have reported employee resistance to digital adoption. The sheer scale of adoption can become an insurmountable operational challenge.
The report finds that, from overwhelmed employees to poorly executed digital adoption programs, turning to the right piece of technology — DAP — can enable organizations to make data-backed decisions that drive desired user behaviors to maximize the impact of their digital transformation at scale, with minimal friction , and accelerate the return on their software investment.
Read the full report by WalkMe and Futurum.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
