Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Community Strategies for the ecommerce metaverse journey Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
With all the hype around the metaverse, you might think we’re just days away from plugging in and living in the Matrix. More seriously, the metaverse will be transformative and an enormous opportunity for ecommerce , but we’re only at the beginning of that journey.
Many of the foundational technology components of the metaverse stack — including artificial intelligence (AI), augmented reality (AR), virtual reality (VR), nonfungible tokens (NFTs) and bots — are available today. And merchants are spending aggressively on them.
IDC estimates that retail spending on AI is expected to grow at a more than 25% compound annual growth rate between 2021 and 2025. It is estimated that from 2019 to 2023, AR/VR will see a 77% compound annual growth rate. This year alone (2022), experts estimate $1.8 billion in retail and marketing spend on VR. The consumer sector alone is more than 50% of spending in AR and VR.
Research shows that deploying even simple AI, AR or VR can substantially grow customer engagement and conversion. These technologies also reduce the staggering $428 billion in product returns annually. In addition to their immediate benefits, these foundational technologies serve as a great stepping stone to the inevitable popularity of the metaverse — but only if you can properly tune them to capitalize on fundamental human behaviors.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Humans demand personalization, new experiences and less friction No matter what “verse” it operates in, ecommerce has always depended on matching technology to basic human desires (that rarely change). We have an insatiable demand for experiences — new experiences that stimulate us and are personalized and practical. And we are growing increasingly impatient, demanding almost instant satisfaction and as little friction as possible. The best applications of these new foundational technologies are directly aligned to satisfy these basic desires.
For example, 60% of people want to visualize how a product fits into their lives. AI, with advanced algorithms, can watch for patterns in our lives and make suggestions from inventory about what products to start with, based on data from past purchases, browsing, geography, etc. AR/VR can then — effortlessly — provide a visualization in the context of the user’s environment.
IKEA’s popular Place is an AR app that meets much of these criteria by showcasing the company’s products and helping consumers choose and place furniture in their homes. Not only does this app deliver personalization and a simple, custom experience for consumers in their homes, but it cuts down on returns.
In fashion, several similar applications provide virtual try-on and sizing experiences. Simple technology like FitFinder technology helps buyers personalize their sizing experience by taking the data of a brand or item they know fits them and using an algorithm to compare the measurements accurately.
Stoney Clover Lane (which just collaborated with Target) offers VR renderings of its designs to customers on its website. More advanced 3D modeling technology opens more inclusive shopping experiences for buyers who don’t fit into stereotyping sizing. Merchants who add 3D modeling to their sites already see it.
Where foundational metaverse tech struggles Some of the most popular applications of these technologies bridge physical and virtual experiences. But the technologies still fall short on many fronts.
Geographical and age-old habits of the physical world still cause stumbles across the tech stack. It’s still hard to navigate the diversity of sizing in both geographies and individual brands. Understanding the differences between the EU and the U.S. sizing still challenges most buyers and even size “large” can vary significantly between manufacturers in the same country. If such baseline data is not normalized and standardized, AI, AR and 3D modeling will recreate what consumers already experience. Anyone who’s ordered the identical size shoe from different vendors hoping to find a fit knows the pain of this experience.
Bots are another prime example of foundational technology that still isn’t meeting the critical match between basic desires and technology. Sure, it’s efficient for merchants to deploy bots, but they are rarely helpful and consumers hate them. Research shows that a single bad experience can easily drive away even the most loyal customer. Merchants are just sorting out the moments when bots are best and those when it’s better to prioritize the consumer experience and get a human on the line.
And finally, sensory experiences still can’t be replicated in the virtual world beyond basic haptic responses. You can’t “feel” the fabric, smell the spices or engage in other sensory experiences. Nothing in the virtual world comes close to matching the evaluation and enjoyment of touching those fabrics or sitting on that couch.
Deploy the tech with best immediate impact Opinions and estimates vary on how big and fast the metaverse ecommerce gold rush could be. There’s still significant work to distinguish the metaverse as more than just another sales channel. But don’t wait to get started. Pick the technologies that both power immediate ecommerce gains today (i.e., customer experience and satisfaction) and will also be inevitable building blocks of the metaverse. The pioneering merchants who do this will gain huge competitive advantages, regardless of when the metaverse emerges as a full-blown commerce environment.
Just be sure to match the bits and bytes of the technology to baseline human desires — otherwise, you’re just creating another bad bot.
Zohar Gilad is the cofounder of Fast Simon, Inc.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! DataDecisionMakers Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
