Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Okta completes $6.5B Auth0 acquisition Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Okta team at the Nasdaq on opening day.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Okta has announced that its $6.5 billion Auth0 acquisition is now complete.
Companies are increasing their cloud IT spend as part of ongoing digital transformation efforts, which generate an even greater need to invest in security. For enterprises, managing the online identities of their workforce is a key part of this shift.
The Okta and Auth0 deal, which was first announced back in March , brings together two heavyweights from the identity and access management (IAM) sphere. Okta is a $35 billion publicly traded company specializing in software and APIs that enable businesses to manage how their users access online systems. Auth0, a developer-focused identify platform for “application teams,” is a venture-backed company backed by Salesforce and other big-name investors. Collectively, the companies claim Siemens, T-Mobile, Pfizer, and AMD among their customers.
As a combined entity, Okta and Auth0 are essentially leveraging their clout and experience in the enterprise and developer communities. The companies haven’t divulged specific integration plans, but they said both platforms will be “supported, invested in, and integrated over time.” Auth0 will continue to operate as an independent unit inside Okta, led by cofounder and current CEO Eugenio Pace, who will report directly to Okta CEO Todd McKinnon.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
