Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Hazelcast unveils real-time intelligent app platform for analytics Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
In-memory data grid developer Hazelcast yesterday announced that version 5.0 of its Hazelcast Platform, a real-time intelligent applications platform for enterprises, will be widely available in August. The platform is based on the first Hazelcast stable release in March and is designed to handle transactional, operational, and analytical workloads to meet growing demand, the company said.
“While data continues to be an enterprise’s most valuable resource, it’s only useful if they can derive actionable insights in a timely manner,” Hazelcast CEO Kelly Herrell said in a statement.
The San Mateo, California-based company designed its new version of the Java-based Hazelcast Platform to meet IT organizations’ need to merge and integrate streaming data and data at rest. Hazelcast said its applications platform allows enterprise customers to “unify event streams with the context of traditional data sources, such as databases and data lakes, to accelerate revenue growth, significantly lower risk, or drive cost efficiencies.” Boosting SQL and persistence capabilities Hazelcast shared several improvements and new capabilities coming with Hazelcast Platform 5.0. These include enhanced ANSI SQL support and the addition of disk-based persistence capabilities.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The Hazelcast Platform’s SQL engine “now supports basic data manipulation language (DML) functionality to enable INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE on data in Hazelcast,” as well as adding sorting, aggregations, and new SQL expressions and supporting declarative data ingestion from messaging systems like Kafka , the company said.
“While the Hazelcast Platform is new, it carries the same DNA as its predecessors when it comes to performance, enrichment, scale, and reliability. The addition of persistence and production-ready unified SQL support directly correlates to the desire of our customers to merge multiple workloads while gaining the performance and reliability of in-memory technologies,” Hazelcast CTO John DesJardins said.
In addition, the provision of new disk-based persistence capabilities lets customers safely restore data on the platform after an unexpected crash and can reduce platform downtime caused by maintenance and migration tasks. Hazelcast has also added security controls to the platform’s stream processing engine and simplified management of Hazelcast clusters with a unified Management Center interface.
Hazelcast Platform 5.0 is currently in beta ahead of its August release.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
