Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 95% of employees say IT issues decrease workplace productivity and morale Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
If 2020 was the year enterprises experimented with remote and hybrid work , 2021 and 2022 saw these modes mature into permanent norms for millions of knowledge workers. For many enterprises, this was the start of the journey to digital employee experience (DEX). With this adaptation, 1E and Vanson Bourne looked to better understand the pivotal shift in the way organizations approach IT strategies and DEX. Results revealed that slapping a “DEX band-aid” over the problem won’t fix deep and pervasive employee experience issues ; 95% of professionals believe IT issues disrupt employees’ digital experience in their organization, hindering productivity and diminishing workplace morale.
As companies continue to grapple with IT struggles – and increased digital friction – they started to introduce new technologies, undertake DEX maturity assessments, and create centers of excellence (CoE). These introductions will allow companies to get to the root of business issues and put strategies in place that will improve DEX and enhance remote productivity and wellbeing.
Companies who take that next step and prove they’re ready to move from good to great employee experiences will excel. When looking at the importance of DEX, 91% of employees believe their organization has a strategy in place – or is in the process of implementing a strategy. Overwhelmingly so, respondents also recognize the importance of DEX as a key consideration in digital transformation strategy (80%), but almost all surveyed indicate that there is a need for improvement (90%).
This newfound information proves that organizations can get DEX where they need to in a remote work environment – it will just take time, strategy and full company support.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! For its report, 1E commissioned a survey of 300 IT decision-makers and knowledge workers in March and April 2022, from companies in the U.S. and U.K. with 5,000+ employees, to understand their experiences and perceptions.
Read the full report by 1E and Vanson Bourne.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
