Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 75% of CISOs worry about vulnerabilities during app production Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
New research from Dynatrace found that 75% of CISOs still fear that too many vulnerabilities creep into app production despite multi-layered security systems, but only 37% of organizations have runtime vulnerability management capabilities.
At a time when CISOs face far more complexity, the need to combine security and the kind of visibility that detects attacks and vulnerabilities in real time has never been greater. Dynatrace’s research shows a multi-layered security strategy isn’t enough to prevent vulnerabilities from finding their way into app production. In today’s world of multicloud environments , multiple coding languages and open-source software, vulnerability management has become dramatically more challenging.
Despite the existence of a multi-layered security strategy, persistent coverage gaps still allow vulnerabilities to enter production, according to 75% of the chief information security officers (CISOs) surveyed. However, only 37% of organizations have runtime vulnerability management capabilities. Cloud-native delivery practices improve business agility but also inject more complexity into vulnerability detection.
The emergence of recent critical vulnerabilities, including Log4Shell, highlight the problem and the need to combine security with observability, which would lay the foundation for effective new AlSecDevOps practices. The report illustrates now more than ever the necessity of bolstering security practices with the kind of visibility that leads to the detection of runtime vulnerabilities and thwarting of real-time attacks.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Nearly 80% of CISOs say automatic, continuous runtime vulnerability management is key to filling the gap in the capabilities of existing security solutions. At the same time, only 25% of security teams have the ability to access accurate, continuously updated reports of every app and code library running in production.The findings are based on an independent global survey of 1,300 CISOs conducted by Coleman Parkes in April 2022 and commissioned by Dynatrace. The sample included 200 respondents in the U.S., 100 each in the UK, France, Germany, Spain, Italy, the Nordics, the Middle East, Australia, and India, and 50 each in Singapore, Malaysia, Brazil, and Mexico.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
