Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 74% of IT security pros want better penetration testing Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
According to a recent survey by Cobalt, 74% of IT security professionals believe their organizations would test their systems more frequently if the traditional penetration testing (or “pentesting”) process was more efficient or required less management.
Cybersecurity vulnerabilities are going undetected because pentesting hasn’t made its way to the 21st century — and this is a big problem.
Although software development professionals almost universally view pentesting as a critical component of application and network security programs , few organizations can actually perform as much pentesting as they want (or need) due to limited budgets and inefficiencies in the traditional pentesting process.
The most common approach to pentesting today is engaging a consulting firm with an IT practice to provide a pentesting team for a specific test project. While these engagements provide valuable input, network security teams find them to be expensive and slow, particularly in today’s on-demand, software-as-a-service (SaaS) -driven world.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Cobalt’s research found that 79% of IT security professionals agree their departments lost valuable time due to inefficiencies involved in the traditional pentesting format. Meanwhile, 71% agreed that the cost of pentesting limits their organization’s ability to test more frequently.
Enter pentest-as-as-service (PtaaS), which has emerged as a modern approach to cybersecurity threat detection and remediation. According to Cobalt’s data, PtaaS reduces the hours of work required to plan, manage, and support pentesting projects by nearly 25%, freeing up the time of security and development teams to address other critical tasks.
PtaaS can also cut the total cost of a standard pentest project by 56% compared with traditional consulting engagements, enabling organizations to reduce the same amount of risk for half the cost — or get twice the coverage for the same budget.
The “ROI of Modern Pentesting” report reveals how traditional pentest consulting engagements stack up against the PtaaS model in today’s current cyber threat climate. Cobalt surveyed 600 IT security professionals and conducted an in-depth study of six seasoned security leaders from different organizations and industries that have commissioned services from both traditional consultancies and PtaaS providers.
Read the full report by Cobalt.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
