Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Mparticle launches toolkit to help brands optimize cross-channel customer journeys Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
New York-based Mparticle , a company that offers a platform for end-to-end customer data management, today announced a new toolkit to help brands better optimize their customer journeys across channels.
Officially dubbed Journeys, the offering allows enterprises to gather data from across the customer lifecycle and combine journey analysis, testing and orchestration into a single automated workflow.
Currently, enterprise marketing teams struggle to deliver differentiated customer experiences because they fail to gather data from all their sources. Information from tools, teams and siloed systems often remains out of hand as there is little data exchange between teams responsible for customer lifecycle milestones, such as first-time conversion or churn. Imagine CRM system data to manage micro-journeys such as email outreach not being tracked as part of the customer experience.
Improving the customer journey The Journeys tool gathers the data from these disparate sources and provides actionable insights about the journey performance of customers, making it easier for teams to collaborate and make the required optimizations.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The toolkit has three key components: Journey Builder, Journey Integrations and Journey Analytics.
Journey Builder, available starting today, allows enterprise marketers to design multi-stage customer journeys using a drag-and-drop interface. It employs cross-channel event or user data to define key milestones and associated actions.
Journey Integrations and Analytics, meanwhile, look at the additional tasks. The former enables marketers to send customer lists to Mparticle’s partners to deliver the last-mile experience and personalized messages for milestones while the latter helps with creating visualizations, dashboards and reports showing end-to-end Journey engagement metrics as well as funnel analysis — among other things.
This way, the entire package enables users to develop automated workflows between discovery, hypothesis creation, experience delivery, and further optimization. Brands can use Journey Analytics to discover optimal paths to conversion for new prospects and customers. Using the insights, marketers can create detailed workflows designed to maximize the acquisition and conversion of new customers. Journey Integrations can enable marketers to reach customers across any channel – email, mobile, social, etc. – with customized messages.
Currently, Journey Builder is available to select Mparticle customers, while Journey Integrations and Analytics would be available in the coming months. The company also plans to invest in AI-driven resources and other add-ons to help enterprises further optimize their customers’ experience, leading to ideal journey paths.
According to Markets and Markets , the customer journey analytics market alone can grow from $8.3 billion in 2020 to $25.1 billion by 2026, with a CAGR of 20.3% during the period.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
