Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Picnic helps orgs protect data from social engineering threats Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Social engineering (tricking people to get info) is encouraged at Defcon.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Today, social engineering prevention and detection platform Picnic announced it had raised $14 million as part of a Series A funding round led by Crosslink Capital and Rally Ventures with participation from Energy Impact Partners.
The startup aims to address the challenge of social engineering threats that have successfully evaded traditional cybersecurity controls by continuously monitoring an organization’s online digital footprints and public data from over 1,000 data sources, and analyzing whether an attacker could use that information to create a scam.
Picnic offers a preventative solution to social engineering attacks which allows them to see what data an attacker could gather on their employees from social media, data brokers, breach repositories, and the dark web.
The Era of social engineering The announcement comes as social engineering attacks run rampant, with the average organization targeted by over 700 social engineering attacks each year, with over 12 million spear phishing and social engineering attacks taking place between May 2020 and June 2021.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! These attacks are prevalent because there’s no silver bullet antivirus or anti-malware platform that can prevent an attacker from gathering information about a company or individual online, and coordinating targeted outreach to trick them into handing over sensitive information.
“Social engineering is the single largest and most challenging problem in cybersecurity that includes myriad attacks (phishing, impersonation, BEC, identity theft, etc). These kinds of attacks have one common thread: they seek to trick targeted people into doing something by leveraging personal data about the target and their personal and professional networks,” said Matt Polak, founder of Picnic.
“Traditional approaches have tried to solve this problem by technical means (email gateways, endpoint protection, MFA, etc) and through training. Unfortunately, technical solutions are defeated by hackers, for example, by running a staged attack, and training does little to inoculate users against more than the most basic ‘Nigerian Prince’ types of scams,” he said.
Instead, Picnic addresses social engineering threats by identifying publicly available information, or open-source intelligence (OSINT), in print, about individuals or organizations, so that organizations can remove it and deny potential attackers of reconnaissance data.
The idea is to prevent attackers from putting together public information to target employees with social engineering scams.
A new preventative approach to social engineering Picnic is part of the global cybersecurity market , valued at $153 billion in 2020 and anticipated to reach $366 billion by 2028, which only has a handful of social engineering solutions, including security awareness training providers.
One such provider is KnowBe4 , which provides security awareness training to teach employees how to detect social engineering attempts, which has over 40,000 customers, and announced $262.2 million in annual recurring revenue last year.
Another is Barracuda , which offers security awareness training based on real-world threat templates of malicious emails, and analyzes how effectively employees can spot phishing attacks, which is on target to reach $1 billion in sales between 2023 and 2024.
These preventative approaches aim to mitigate social engineering threats by teaching employees how to spot manipulation attempts in the form of phishing emails that aim to mislead them into clicking through to phishing websites.
However, while there are other cybersecurity vendors tackling the issue of social engineering threats, Picnic’s approach is unique in that it tackles the online digital footprint of enterprises.
“Picnic has created the first technology platform of its kind capable of addressing public data vulnerabilities preemptively, efficiently, and comprehensively at an integrated, enterprise-wide level,” said Polak.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
