Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 78% of U.S. execs rely on AI insights to enhance marketing efforts Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Using artificial intelligence (AI) to create personalized language and content is one of the most impactful tools digital marketers have available to ensure they stay ahead of the curve in ever-evolving markets.
In January 2022, Persado and Coresight Research found that 78.3% of U.S.-based executives hold AI accountable for creative development and execution. In doing so, marketers can leverage AI-generated content and track the impact of words and phrases that resonate most with their custmers.
As natural language generation (NLG) continues to grow in prominence, marketing teams will evolve to work with AI to help create the ultimate customer experience. Integration of advanced digital technologies within marketing teams will play an increasing role in driving revenue. The Persado study emphasizes that 53.9% of respondents cited they are currently leveraging AI or machine learning to offer a personalized experience to customers.
To create an engaging customer experience , marketers rely on data to create and develop personalized customization. In the past, marketers have relied heavily on third-party data, but changes in privacy laws in the U.S. and EU have shifted businesses’ focus to owning first-party data — data that organizations collect directly from their customers (such as demographics, purchase history, etc.). This shift is emphasized within Persado’s research, which found that 78.2 % of U.S.-based executives believe efficient use of first-party data is very or critical for AI in digital marketing.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! First-party data is critical for marketers to create enhanced customer experiences. AI marketing tools enable organizations to anticipate customer needs, create targeted campaigns, and reduce the time to resolve inquiries. Implementation of these AI tools will play an increasing role in driving revenue. This study emphasizes the growing role advanced technologies play in creating positive brand experiences for consumers and generating significant returns on investments.
Results are based on findings from a November 2021 Persado and Coresight Research survey of 165 U.S.-based executive business leaders whose companies use AI and ML in digital marketing or plan to do so in the next three years.
Read the full report by Persado.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
