Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 54% of today’s ‘ethical hackers’ are Gen Z Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
According to a new report by Bugcrowd, 54% of today’s ethical hackers belong to Gen Z (individuals born between 1997 and 2012) and an additional 35% are millennials (born between 1981 and 1996). Younger than ever, this season of ethical hackers also represents the most ethnically diverse generation in history.
This comprehensive annual report pulls back the curtain on ethical hackers to provide new insights into their backgrounds, lifestyles, skills, and motivations.
The practice of ethical hacking helps root out security vulnerabilities, and in so doing it has become a mainstream vocation that allows diverse individuals to generate a sustainable livelihood from anywhere in the world.
Ethical hackers live in 61 countries across six of the world’s seven continents. They aid organizations with identifying unfixed bugs throughout their infrastructure and software development lifecycles.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Despite the financial incentives for security researchers, more than half of them describe ethical hacking as work that they find intrinsically motivated. They say they do it to cultivate personal development, challenge themselves, seek excitement, and give back to the community. In fact, 86% of hackers think reporting a critical vulnerability is more important than making money. Seventy-four percent of respondents agree that vulnerabilities have increased since the onset of COVID-19.
Notable highlights from the report include descriptions of whom these ethical hackers are, where their work is focused, and why more forward-looking companies are turning to bug bounty programs to continuously secure innovation and mitigate risks.
The report analyzes survey responses and security research conducted on the Bugcrowd Platform from May 1, 2020, to August 31, 2021, in addition to millions of proprietary data points collected on vulnerabilities from 2,961 security programs. It also features the personal profiles of several ethical hackers who work on the Bugcrowd Platform.
Read the full report by Bugcrowd.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
