Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages No-code development platform Webflow eyes the enterprise with $120M fundraise Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Webflow on laptop Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Webflow has raised $120 million in a series C round of funding, as the no-code web development platform eyes a larger piece of the pie in the enterprise sector.
Founded in 2012, Webflow in its original guise was focused more on low-functionality websites, but today it’s used by larger businesses such as Dell, Zendesk, and Rakuten to remove much of the manual spadework from the development process.
Indeed, much in the same way as businesses have transitioned to cloud infrastructure to alleviate themselves of the burden that comes with managing their data centers, companies are increasingly seeking new ways to make other aspects of their operations more efficient — and that includes democratizing the development process through visual tools.
“By dramatically simplifying the creation of websites, Webflow has enabled hundreds of thousands of individuals and businesses to build complex, beautifully designed websites,” explained Ali Rowghani, managing director at Y Combinator’s Continuity fund, which led Webflow’s latest round.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Enterprising Webflow also revealed today that its enterprise product , which includes extra features such as advanced security, custom traffic scaling, and guaranteed uptime, has grown by 600% in the past year, and is now used by companies such as PwC, Univision, and Discord.
With another $120 million in the bank, Webflow said that it plans to traverse further down the enterprise path, as well invest “in its core community.” “This funding will help accelerate our work towards our mission to empower millions of people to create for the web,” Webflow cofounder and CEO Vlad Magdalin said in a statement.
A quick peek across the software development landscape reveals that the no code / low-code movement is showing little sign of slowing. There are now a wealth of platforms designed to help anyone in a company build functional websites or robust internal business apps — startups such as Stacker , Budibase , and Softr show that, as do more established players such as Appian , Google’s AppSheet , and Amazon’s Honeycode.
Prior to now, Webflow had raised around $215 million, and with its latest cash injection the San Francisco-based company’s valuation has soared to $4 billion — almost double its valuation on last year.
Other notable backers in Webflow’s series C round include Alphabet’s CapitalG, Accel, Draper Associates, and Silversmith.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
