Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 60% of orgs hit by ransomware-as-a-service attacks in the past 18 months Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
According to a new report from U.K.-based cybersecurity company Sophos , ransomware-as-a-service attacks became more popular in the past 18 months. Of the hundreds of ransomware attacks Sophos investigated during that time, nearly 60% were perpetrated by ransomware-as-a-service groups.
Such attacks, where one group builds the malicious code and sells it to another group to use in the virtual breaking-and-entering of a vulnerable enterprise or organization, are growing increasingly sophisticated. Over the last two years, Sophos has observed a growing trend where malware developers lease their code to attackers to do the dirty work of breaking into an enterprise company’s network and holding its systems or data hostage until a ransom is paid.
The Conti brand of ransomware-as-a-service, which the FBI said in May had attacked 16 medical and first responder networks , was the most popular type of ransomware deployed during that time.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The report notes that some malware developers even create their own attack playbooks and make them available to their affiliates. As a result, different attack groups end up implementing very similar attacks. The more that specialist ransomware programmers outsource their malicious code and infrastructure to third-party affiliates, the more the size and scope of ransomware delivery methods will grow.
It is no longer enough for organizations to assume they’re safe by monitoring security tools and ensuring they’re detecting malicious code. IT teams need to understand the evolution of ransomware, and specifically the growing ransomware-as-a-service trend, in order to develop effective cybersecurity strategies for protecting their organizations in 2022 and beyond.
Sophos compiled the data in the report from a statistical analysis of the hundreds of ransomware attacks and hundreds of thousands of malware samples its threat researchers and response teams investigated in the past 18 months.
Read the full report by Sophos.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
