Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google to acquire cybersecurity company Mandiant for $5.4B Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Mandiant Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Google has confirmed plans to acquire cybersecurity company Mandiant in an all-cash deal worth $5.4 billion, after rumors first emerged yesterday of an impending deal.
The move comes exactly a month after reports emerged that Microsoft was in early discussions to buy Mandiant, meaning that Google is essentially getting one over its big cloud rival.
Mandiant works with customers including InfoSys, OlyFed, and the Bank of Thailand, providing threat intelligence and consulting services, and automated tools for investigating security alerts. Mandiant is perhaps better known under its former name FireEye, a U.S. cybersecurity firm that shot to prominence for detecting major cyberattacks through the years. FireEye had acquired Mandiant for $1 billion in 2013, but last year it revealed plans to sell off the FireEye brand and products business and focus on its Mandiant cyber forensics business instead.
As part of the transaction, FireEye changed its corporate name to Mandiant.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! ‘Unprecedented cybersecurity challenges’ From Google’s perspective, buying Mandiant makes a great deal of sense, given its clear interest in bolstering its cloud platform and selling its ware to enterprises the world over. As a result of the transaction, Mandiant will become part of Google Cloud, where it will offer advisory services to help companies reduce risk before, during, and after security incidents; power additional threat detection, intelligence, and automated incident response tools; and more.
“Organizations around the world are facing unprecedented cybersecurity challenges as the sophistication and severity of attacks that were previously used to target major governments are now being used to target companies in every industry,” Google Cloud CEO Thomas Kurian said in a press release. “We look forward to welcoming Mandiant to Google Cloud to further enhance our security operations suite and advisory services, and help customers address their most important security challenges.” Google said that it expects to close the Mandiant acquisition later this year, pending the usual regulatory and shareholder approvals.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
