Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: Cybercriminals refine tactics to exploit zero-day vulnerabilities Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
HP Wolf Security captured exploits of the zero-day CVE-2021-40444 — a remote code execution vulnerability in the MSHTML browser engine that can be triggered simply by opening a malicious Microsoft Office document — as early as September 8, a week before a patch was issued.
The latest HP Wolf Security Threat Insights Report shows how cybercriminals continue to innovate in their tactics , techniques, and procedures, and how sophisticated threats like zero-day exploits are rapidly filtering down to less-capable attackers. Looking at the recent CVE-2021-40444 vulnerability, exploit generators emerged on public code-sharing websites days after the vulnerability bulletin was released.
This exploit is ripe for abuse by attackers because they can gain control of a system simply by tricking a victim into previewing a malicious Office document in File Explorer. Because so little user interaction is required to exploit the vulnerability, victims are less likely to realize that their system has been compromised compared to other techniques, giving attackers a head start in achieving their objectives — whether it’s stealing data or holding a business to ransom.
This particular exploit isn’t limited to the most advanced cybercriminals, either. Proof of concept scripts that allowed almost anyone to weaponize the exploit appeared four days before a patch was available for organizations to install. As many organizations will still be deploying the patch, HP expects to see this vulnerability exploited more over the coming months.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! One of the emerging malware trends between July and September is that cybercriminals are increasingly piggybacking off legitimate cloud services like OneDrive to host their malware. This allows them to slip past network security controls that rely on website reputation to protect users, such as web proxies. HP also saw an uptick in JavaScript and HTA (HTML Application) malware delivered as email attachments. These file formats have proven effective at evading detection, allowing attackers to reach employee inboxes. In fact, 12% of email malware isolated by HP Wolf Security in Q3 bypassed at least one email gateway scanner.
To protect against zero-day exploits spread via malicious attachments, or stealthy threats that are slipping past detection tools, organizations need to make sure they are following zero trust principles — for example, by using threat isolation as part of a layered defense. This will protect the organization from the most common attack vectors like clicking on malicious links, attachments, and downloads, or visiting malicious web pages.
 Risky tasks are executed in disposable, isolated virtual machines, separated from the host operating system. If a user opens a malicious document, the malware is trapped — its operator has nowhere to go and nothing to steal. This renders malware harmless and helps keep organizations safe.
Read the full report by HP.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
