Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google bags Job Simulator studio Owlchemy Labs in VR’s latest exit Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Rick and Morty now work for Google.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
One of the most successful virtual reality game studios is now a part of one of the world’s biggest corporations.
Google revealed today that it has acquired Owlchemy Labs , the studio that is best known for developing popular HTC Vive launch game Job Simulator. This acquisition gives Google a talented in-house team that can build content for its Daydream VR headsets that work with select Android smartphones. In its blog post announcing the deal to bring Owlchemy under the Google banner, Google VR engineering director Relja Markovic explained that the company’s existing content teams will partner with Owlchemy to build new experiences. Markovic also suggested that Owlchemy will continue working on other VR platforms like Vive, Oculus Rift, and more. The two parties did not disclose how much Google spent to acquire the studio.
Owlchemy has helped define VR for many people. Job Simulator is a game where you experience a museum of jobs through a series of silly interactions. The game also got a chance to prove itself to a mass audience when it appeared on the late-night program Conan.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Owlchemy’s followup VR game, Rick and Morty: Virtual Rick-ality debuted in April, and it presented players with a similar set of bizarre, interactive challenges.
“Today, we’re thrilled to welcome Owlchemy Labs to Google,” wrote Markovic. “They’ve created award-winning games like Job Simulator and Rick and Morty: Virtual Rick-ality which have really thoughtful interactive experiences that are responsive, intuitive, and feel natural. They’ve helped set a high bar for what engagement can be like in virtual worlds, and do it all with a great sense of humor.” In January, Owlchemy revealed that Job Simulator was a sales hit. Through 2016, it grossed more than $3 million in revenues. Since debuting in April for the Vive, it has since made the move to Oculus Rift and PlayStation VR. It was so popular that the studio even released a physical version of the game for Sony’s PS4 console.
This move is also indicative of Google’s commitment to VR and not just as a hardware or experiential exercise. Owlchemy is a game studio, and now Google can actively produce gaming content internally for head-mounted displays without having to necessarily work with outside partners.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
