Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Canalys: More data breaches in 2020 than previous 15 years despite 10% growth in cybersecurity spending Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
As cyberattacks increase, it’s hard not to wonder if enterprises are fighting a losing battle.
According to a new report by Canalys , companies are spending record sums on cybersecurity, and yet the number of successful attacks is higher than ever.
Canalys’ report noted that “more records were compromised in just 12 months than in the previous 15 years combined.” These are being driven in particular by ransomware attacks that have become more severe, in some cases disrupting hospitals. These attacks have also caused some companies to shut down and others to put emergency response plans in place to avoid being shuttered.
This carnage is happening despite the fact that cybersecurity investment grew 10% in 2020 to $53 billion.
So what’s going on? Canalys believes that companies are still under-investing in cybersecurity. During the pandemic, other areas of IT grew faster, signaling that enterprises were placing an emphasis on services that would help them remain stable during the pandemic or even grow rather than protect their infrastructure from attack.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Indeed, some enterprises may have increased their vulnerability by responding to the pandemic in ways that ignored their safety policies. But the real culprit may simply have been failing to make security a top priority.
Compared to the 10% growth in cybersecurity spending, cloud infrastructure services grew 33% in 2020, cloud software services rose 20%, notebook PC shipments jumped 17%, Logitech’s webcam sales increased 138%, and wi-fi router sales surged 40%.
“Cybersecurity must be front and center of digital plans, otherwise there will be a mass extinction of organizations, which will threaten the post-COVID-19 economic recovery,” said Canalys Chief Analyst Matthew Ball in a statement. “A lapse in focus on cybersecurity is already having major repercussions, resulting in the escalation of the current data breach crisis and acceleration of ransomware attacks.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
