Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: Flawed data management leads to lost revenue for most companies Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
According to a new report by Fivetran and Wakefield Research, 85% of data leaders surveyed say flawed data management leads to poor decision-making and lost revenue. Overall, the results provide a detailed look at where these data management processes are failing and why data and analytics leaders are struggling to keep up.
Nearly 3 in 4 data and analytics leaders (72%) say their team’s time is being wasted on manual oversight of data pipelines — a poor use of time and talent. Sixty-nine percent of data and analytics leaders say their business outcomes at their company would be somewhat or significantly improved if their data team were able to contribute more to business decisions rather than manual pipeline management. The manual approach is full of inefficiencies and not at all optimized.
 Eighty percent of those surveyed admit they have to rebuild data pipelines after deployment, such as changing APIs.
In addition to being error-prone, the process for deriving valuable insight from the data with manual pipelines is extremely slow. Only 13% report being able to derive value from newly collected data in minutes or hours. For 76% of companies, including 74% of companies with $500 million-plus in revenue, however, it takes days or up to a week to prepare the data for revenue-impacting decisions.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The Fivetran survey was conducted by Wakefield Research among 300 data and analytics leaders, VP and above; in the U.S., U.K., Germany, and France; at companies with $100 million+ in annual revenue, a minimum of 100 employees, and who are familiar with the data strategy/data use at their organization; between September 27 and October 12, 2021, using an email invitation and an online survey.
Read the full report by Fivetran and Wakefield Research.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
