Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Rewind brings data backup and recovery to Microsoft 365 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Rewind now provides backup and recovery for Microsoft 365 Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Data backup and recovery platform Rewind is extending support to include Microsoft 365.
The announcement comes just a couple of months after the Canadian company raised $65 million , with demand for cloud backup services growing due in large part to the remote work revolution that has driven uptake of SaaS-based online software.
Founded out of Ottawa in 2015, Rewind has previously offered data backup services for businesses running Shopify, BigCommerce, Intuit QuickBooks, GitHub , and Trello.
 As of today, this list also includes Microsoft 365, with data backup and recovery available for Exchange Online, SharePoint, OneDrive for Business, Office 365 Groups, and Microsoft Teams.
Above: Rewind now provides backup and recovery for Microsoft 365 Get backup While most SaaS platforms provide some disaster recovery and security tools at an infrastructure level so that they can help companies recover from systemwide catastrophes , the customer is ultimately responsible for their data at an individual account level, including password management, permissions, and — crucially — backing up data. By way of example, Microsoft’s very own terms of services specifically recommend using third-party backup services, noting: VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! We strive to keep the Services up and running; however, all online services suffer occasional disruptions and outages, and Microsoft is not liable for any disruption or loss you may suffer as a result. In the event of an outage, you may not be able to retrieve Your Content or Data that you’ve stored. We recommend that you regularly backup Your Content and Data that you store on the Services or store using Third-Party Apps and Service.
This is what is known in industry parlance as a “shared responsibility” model, and this is where Rewind comes into play — it’s all about “versioning,” allowing SaaS customers to restore any file or piece of data to specific date and time.
As Rewind looks to extend its reach into the enterprise, the company is also currently preparing data backup and recovery services across other major SaaS products , including HubSpot, Zendesk, GitLab, and Jira, which are expected to start rolling out in 2022.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
