Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Incorta nabs $120M to power business data analytics Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Incorta , an analytics platform designed to speed up data ingestion, this week announced it has raised $120 million in funding contributed by Prysm Capital, with participation from National Grid Ventures, GV, Kleiner Perkins, M12, Sorenson Capital, Telstra Ventures, Ron Wohl, and Silicon Valley Bank (in the form of a credit facility). CEO Scott Jones says the capital, which brings Incorta’s total raised to $195 million, will be used to expand go-to-market operations and meet demand for Incorta’s analytics products.
According to a recent IDC study, 70% of CEOs acknowledge that their organization needs to become more data-driven, with 87% saying becoming more agile and integrated over the next five years is a top priority. Meanwhile, a new study from Ventana Research highlights where companies struggle most with data analytics.
 Fifty-five percent of organizations report that the most time-consuming analytics task is preparing the data. According to Ventana, 25% of organizations combine more than 20 sources in their data preparation activities, and 39% use more than 104.
Incorta, which was founded in 2014 by Oracle veterans Hichem Sellami, Klaus Fabian, Matthew Halliday, and Osama Elkady, aims to help companies acquire, enrich, analyze, and act upon business data. It can make upwards of tens of billions of rows of data “analytics-ready” without the need to pre-aggregate, reshape, or transform the data in any way, connecting to enterprise apps, data streams, and data files via over 240 integrations.
Above: Incorta’s management dashboard.
“The unprecedented events of the past year highlight the importance of modern data analytics in today’s business environment — platforms and tools like Incorta that deliver data to users directly without costly systems and processes like data warehousing,” Jones said in a press release. “After hitting a major inflection point in 2020, Incorta is now scaling fast to meet global demand for modern data analytics in the cloud.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Data transformation Ninety-five percent of businesses cite the need to manage unstructured data as a problem , and 80% to 90% of the data companies generate today is unstructured, according to CIO.
Incorta aims to address this by offering an enriched metadata map combined with smart query routing. The result is a repository for analytics and machine learning — one that can be run on-premises, hosted by a cloud provider, or delivered as a fully managed cloud service. Incorta can run as a complete standalone data and analytics pipeline or as a component within a larger analytics and business intelligence tech portfolio, depending on an organization’s data analytics needs.
“Companies have an increasing need to gain insight and make decisions from data with speed and agility, and Incorta provides this mission-critical solution with a differentiated offering,” Prysm Capital partner Muhammad Mian said in a statement. “Prysm is excited to partner with an exceptional management team to support the growth of a product that is at the intersection of attractive long-term trends: the explosion of data, digital and cloud transformation, and business intelligence modernization.” Incorta’s series D follows a year in which nearly 60% of the company’s new revenue came from organic expansion with existing customers across media and entertainment, social, high tech, ecommerce, and retail markets. Incorta recently launched Incorta Mobile, a data analytics experience for mobile devices, as well as initiating partnerships with Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud, eCapital, and Tableau. It has also established a footprint in North America, the Middle East, the U.K., and Japan.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
