Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages The great resignation: Boomers and Gen X stay put, while millennials and Gen Z walk away Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Great Resignation Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
19% of surveyed workers left or considered leaving a job in the last year. However, there is a generational divide; 27% of millennials and 31% Gen Z have stated this, compared to just 13% of boomers, according to new research from Amdocs.
Above: There is a generational divide among people who leave their jobs.
Tech workers are even more likely to flee, with 33% having left or considered leaving over the past year. More than 35% had colleagues leave, which negatively affected their daily workloads.
With the Great Resignation also comes the question of why. Nearly two-thirds (64%) would leave their job due to a lack of growth (38%), and training and development (26%) opportunities. 56% want employers to offer more training and career development opportunities in 2022. This area is critical for new talent, too. 90% said when searching for a new job, it’s very important a company offers a strong training and upskilling program.
 This was even higher for tech-specific respondents (97%).
While remote work is a hot topic , it’s not in the top three demands for workers in 2022. 35% of respondents said they want remote work options from their existing employers (tech workers were lower with 20%). This trailed other areas like health and wellness (61%), training and development (56%) and CSR efforts like diversity and sustainability (See Chart #2). This could potentially be partly contributed to the fact that remote work still has its fair of challenges. 38% (and 60% of tech respondents) claimed they need better support from their employer with remote solutions, including reliable connectivity. 33% worry they’ll have fewer opportunities for training and reskilling, or that they’ll disappear completely with the rise remote work.
In its recently released Workforce of 2022: Reskilling, Remote and More Report, Amdocs surveyed 1,000 full time workers across the U.S. to uncover what they want from their employers, and more importantly, why they’re leaving their jobs. According to the findings, today’s employee has specific criteria for the current and post-pandemic workplace, with several key areas rising above remote work as in-demand perks.
Read the full report by Amdocs.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
