Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Cortical.io’s AI makes bulk contract analysis faster and more accurate Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
In the past, reviewing large stacks of documents was a mind-numbing chore for junior attorneys — a process that could literally consume months of multiple employees’ lives. But innovations in artificial intelligence have enabled Cortical.io to automate the document review process with software, and the company today announced a new version of Contract Intelligence with accuracy and speed improvements that promise to reduce data analysis time by as much as 80%.
Using large quantities of documents as inputs and a semantic folding theory-based natural language understanding system to parse content, Contract Intelligence can transform structured agreements and unstructured documents into comprehensible data. The software is able to search, extract, classify, and compare data from contracts, policies, financial reports, and other documents, including the ability to understand the meanings of concepts and whole sentences — more than just keywords, which might previously have been extracted and searchable using basic optical character recognition.
Cortical.io’s update is significant for technical decision-makers because it demonstrates how AI is enabling computers to cut through formerly time-consuming human data processing tasks like a hot knife through butter — including formerly complex legal tasks.
 The new software speeds up the data extraction process, renders documents in higher fidelity, and enables advanced searches that can look for ranges of dates or numbers. Contract Intelligence’s date range searches can quickly identify coverage gaps in insurance policies or the application dates of key contract provisions, concepts that would have previously required human analysis.
Although it might go without saying in some industries, the labor involved in reviewing documents is a prime example of the saying “time is money,” as lawyers tasked with going through contracts can each bill hundreds of dollars per hour of review time, making computerized review potentially very valuable. Cortical.io’s solution promises “quick training” — it can get moving with only 50 sample documents — and doesn’t require AI expertise, instead relying on subject matter experts who use the app to fine-tune the results over time.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Overall, the system promises to reduce contract review time by four-fifths, a potentially massive savings for what might otherwise have been multi-day or multi-month document analysis tasks. It also promises “human-level accuracy.” The system can automatically output processed data to a contract management system and/or business intelligence tools, depending on the client’s needs.
Cortical.io prices Contract Intelligence based on the annual volume of documents, making the software a useful long-term solution for businesses that frequently review large collections of contracts, including those in the insurance industry. A demonstration video is available for companies that might be interested in learning more about the technology, along with a free online demo for potential customers.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
