Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 76% of manufacturers plan to adopt private 5G by 2024 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
According to a report by Accedian , 76% of manufacturers plan to adopt private 5G by 2024.
The potential for 5G to completely transform industries is immeasurable. By promising decreased latency, enhanced security, and the ability to support artificial intelligence (AI) and augmented reality (AR), sectors like health care, gaming, and emergency services will be forever altered. But those opportunities are still far in the future. Most industries and the majority of enterprises aren’t yet equipped with the right infrastructure to support 5G. The major exception is manufacturing.
 As an industry almost entirely dependent on the successful connections between machines, manufacturing is ripe to adopt 5G. But that’s only true if their IT teams are equipped with the right knowledge, skills, tools, and the ecosystem of service providers and technology vendors that can provide the tools and support to make individual visions of Industry 4.0 a reality.
To understand manufacturing teams’ readiness for 5G, Accedian, a provider of performance analytics, cybersecurity threat detection, and end-user experience solutions, partnered with Analysys Mason on a new study of 5G adoption trends. The result was overwhelmingly positive: More than three-fourths (76%) of respondents are planning to adopt private 5G networks by 2024, and list the benefits of increased network security (63%), network performance (49%), and application performance (45%) as a few of the key reasons why.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! But respondents also pointed out a few challenges that have impeded their adoption process thus far, such as the increased complexity of managing the network (43%). This is where service providers have a part to play, particularly in moving from being solely a vendor to becoming more of a strategic partner throughout the 5G adoption process. It’s with this collaborative mindset that the promise of 5G in manufacturing will become a reality, and usher in Industry 4.0.
Analysys Mason, a management consultancy focused on technology, media, and telecommunications (TMT), surveyed 200 respondents from Germany, Japan, United Kingdom, and the United States across six verticals to gain insight into private 5G adoption.
Read the full report by Accedian.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
