Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 50% of execs report improving customer data management is top CX priority Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
A new Forrester survey commissioned by Capgemini, Salesforce, and MuleSoft reveals that 40% of businesses experience difficulty creating an integrated, 360-degree view of the customer from CRM/customer experience (CX) technology data.
In April 2021, Capgemini , Salesforce, and MuleSoft commissioned Forrester to explore the central needs of modern customer experience and common challenges brands looking to improve CX faced as they emerged from pandemic-related restrictions and attempted to resume business either at or near full capacity.
Among key findings, the top reported challenge in the last year has been uncertainty due to the pandemic. More specifically, companies are struggling to provide a consistent and holistic omnichannel experience for their customers while blending remote and in-person work.
As many as 50% of respondents intend to improve management of customer data as their top CX priority over the next 12 months because they recognize that creating the immersive, personalized, and compelling experiences customers now expect comes from integrated customer data systems, improved uses of customer data to generate insights, and the combination of legacy technology with modern, cloud-based solutions.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! However, while gaining a single view of the customer is crucial, beginning the journey is a struggle for many businesses. They are often challenged with garnering executive buy-in and with aligning internal leadership teams to support the adoption of a more holistic platform and strategy.
In order to get CX right, businesses need CRM/CX technologies that identify the same customer across various touchpoints and combine integrated information from both internal and external systems and external information to gain strong customer insights. Additionally, businesses must work closely with IT to develop a roadmap that includes plans for onboarding and integration.
“By designing a CX strategy with complete customer data in mind and bringing IT back into their approach to CRM/CX technologies, companies will be a step closer to gaining a single view of the customer which leads to better all-around CX,” says Jay Rumwell, VP and group partner executive at Capgemini.
The global online survey sampled 426 directors and above in marketing, IT, and line-of-business (LOB) roles who have responsibility for technology purchase decisions and direct ownership of technology project management in North America, EMEA, and APAC.
Read the full report by Forrester.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
