Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: AI investments see largest year-over-year growth in 20 years Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
According to the latest report by Tortoise Intelligence , worldwide investment into AI companies has increased by 115% since 2020, marking the largest year-on-year growth in AI investment for at least two decades. Total AI investment reached $77.5 billion in 2021, a substantial increase from the previous record set last year of $36 billion.
Overall, it’s clear from the report’s findings that COVID-19 has contributed to a surging global interest in AI from both governments and investors. A sudden need for digital collaborative spaces and remote working tools during the pandemic forced business leaders to understand the vital need for digitization, said Michael Chui, partner at the McKinsey Global Institute. This demand included further investments in AI and automation.
The U.S. remains a global leader in AI thanks to a world-beating commercial scene, a large talent pool, and stellar research initiatives.
 In second place is China, which supports the rollout of AI technologies with its robust infrastructure and ambitious government strategy, but falls behind when it comes to talent. The U.K. remains in third place due to its superb pool of home-grown researchers and a strong AI startup scene, but still has areas of weakness in its development and operating environment, including a costly visa regime.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! When it comes to funding per capita, however, Israel — which has knocked South Korea out of its 5th place spot — beats all other countries. Israel had $325,000 in funding invested in AI-focused companies for every million people. It also comes first in the world for the share of GDP going to R&D.
Governments appear to have reacted to the AI zeitgeist, too. Since Tortoise Intelligence’s last report, eight additional countries have officially released government strategies on AI: Slovenia, Turkey, Ireland, Egypt, Malaysia, Brazil, Vietnam, and Chile. It’s a clear acknowledgement of the increasing popularity of this technology.
The Tortoise Global AI Index ranks nations by AI preparedness. It analyzes metrics including investment into AI, the strength of a nation’s talent pool, the quality of its research, supercomputing capabilities, and the level of ambition and muscle behind its national government strategies.
Read the full report by Tortoise Intelligence.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
