Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Jobs Flexibility is the workplace benefit we want the most Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn As the dust settles on the return to work post-pandemic, one big sticking point is emerging for American workers: flexibility.
So what does flexibility mean in this context? It is things like the ability to set your own schedule: you can go to a doctor’s appointment during the work day or pop out for groceries — yet still complete all your hours. Or it looks like a hybrid or fully remote work set up, with some days at home, and some in the office.
McKinsey’s recent American Opportunity Survey discovered that 87% of people will take the chance to work flexibly when offered it, and that this is consistent across demographics, occupations and geographies. Right now, 58% of Americans are working from home at least one day a week, with 35% able to work from home up to five days a week.
The most recent Survey of Working Arrangements and Attitudes, revealed that working from home is much more common in major cities than small cities and towns, and those who are able to work from home would like to be able to do so five days a week.
We are at a tipping point with our work and how we want to do it. A recent Pew Research Center survey also discovered that flexibility really matters to Americans and if they don’t get it, they will vote with their feet. For 48% of respondents with a child younger than 18, child care issues were a reason they quit a job. Another 45% left a job over lack of flexibility regarding when they could put in their hours.
Other factors for recent job leavers include 39% who said their reason was that they were working too many hours, while 30% said it was the opposite: they were working too few hours. Another 35% wanted the flexibility to relocate to a different area.
It is clear that many people are now looking for jobs to suit the way they want to live their lives, and not the other way around. If that’s you, and you are seeking a new opportunity, we have three below, and you can check out the Job Board for many more too.
Staff Software Engineer, Indeed In this remote position, as a Staff Software Engineer in Indeed ’s SMB Growth team, you will build software that guides employers to post high-quality jobs which achieve good performance in search results. You will build UIs and APIs to offer helpful guidance to employers and highlight problems with jobs that could prevent them from being filled. You will join a collaborative team of extremely talented engineers, UX designers, and product managers. If looking at data, slicing and dicing it in multiple ways and coming up with interesting insights is something you thrive upon, you will fit right in. You’ll need a Bachelor’s degree, five years’ experience programming with Java, JavaScript or Python, and three years’ of experience building full-stack applications with React and Redux.
Read the full job description.
UX Developer, Immuta Immuta is the leader in automated data access, helping organizations achieve data compliance. As a UX Developer , you will help shape and design a world-class user experience for Immuta’s entire platform. You will produce elegant front-end code helping your squad implement attractive UIs across and contributing to Immuta ’s design system’s pattern library. You’ll work with UX designers, researchers and product managers to understand the challenges and needs facing customers. You will need previous experience as a front-end developer as well as experience with prototyping, and you’ll have three years working in front end development. In return, the company offers many benefits including 100% employer paid healthcare, paid parental leave (maternity and paternity) and unlimited paid time off.
Find out more here.
Engineering Lead Manager — Addressability, Index Exchange Index is a global advertising technology company helping media owners monetize their digital content through advertising, so that consumers can continue enjoying free and open access to content online. The Engineering Lead / Manager is a critical role, and is responsible for building, growing and supporting privacy-safe products which support buyer addressability. You will need a Bachelor’s degree or higher in computer science, engineering or equivalent, demonstrated leadership and management of 5-15 person teams, and a passion for cutting edge technologies, leading teams and nurturing talent development. The role is remote, and the company also offers time off and flexible work schedules.
See the full job spec.
Want more flex in your day? Check out thousands of open roles on the VentureBeat Job Board VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
