Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Steven Spielberg's Halo: The Television Series coming to Xbox One Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Halo: the video game is about to get a live-action component with Halo: The Television Series, backed by no less than Hollywood legend Steven Spielberg.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
343 Industries general manager Bonnie Ross has just announced a new live-action television series based in the Halo universe, and Steven Spielberg is on board as a creative partner.
“The Halo universe is an amazing opportunity to be at that intersection where technology and myth-making meet to produce something ground-breaking,” said Spielberg in a prerecorded message.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! As yet, no further information exists on whether Halo: The Television Series will involve the Master Chief, when in the continuity it’ll take place, when it will premiere, or even how many episodes have been ordered. But it’s likely to be similar in design to the Forward Unto Dawn web series and, given its origins, exclusive to the new Xbox One console.
[youtube http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p1kCgQ5Bonc&w=560&h=315] For more on the Xbox One reveal, check out our complete coverage.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
