Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Horizon: Forbidden West delay is official — launches February 18 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Horizon: Forbidden West.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Horizon: Forbidden West is coming to PlayStation 5 and PlayStation 4 on February 18. Sony confirmed the delay into next year during today’s Gamescom’s Opening Night Live broadcast.
 You can begin preordering Guerrilla Games’ open-world adventure on September 2.
Horizon was only ever tentatively planned to launch in 2021. And when Sony debuted gameplay at a State of Play event over the summer, it was clear that the game could end up launching in early 2022. Then in July, I reported that the game was moving into 2022 , and Bloomberg’s Jason Schreier corroborated that with his own sources.
With this new Horizon game, Guerrilla is picking up the ongoing adventures of its hero Aloy. After exploring the post-apocalyptic world of Colorado and the wider Rocky Mountains in the original, the game is taking players to the West Coast.
Also, today, Guerrilla launched an update for Horizon: Zero Dawn. This patch adds support for 60 frames per second. The game was previously locked to 30 on console.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
