Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Databricks targets healthcare with industry-specific lakehouse Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Ali Ghodsi, the CEO and cofounder of Databricks.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
San Francisco-headquartered data and AI company Databricks today expanded its product portfolio with another vertical-specific platform – Lakehouse for Healthcare and Life Sciences.
The offering, as the company explained, brings a set of tailored data and AI solutions aimed at solving the most common challenges enterprises face while innovating in the healthcare industry. It follows the launch of Databricks’ lakehouse for retail and financial services sectors.
“As organizations fully transition to electronic medical records, new data types like genomics evolve, and IoT and wearables take off, the industry is awash in massive amounts of data. But…teams don’t have the tools to properly use it,” Michael Hartman, senior vice president of regulated industries at Databricks , said. “With Lakehouse for Healthcare and Life Sciences, we can drive transformation across the entire healthcare ecosystem and help empower our customers to solve specific industry challenges and drive better outcomes for the future of healthcare.” How would Lakehouse for healthcare help? Currently, enterprises in the healthcare sector largely rely on legacy data architectures that keep information from different systems and functions in fragmented silos. This makes advanced analytics difficult, restricting the pace of innovation across areas such as patient care and drug discovery.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The vertical-specific lakehouse , on the other hand, eliminates this challenge by providing health institutions with a single cloud-backed platform for data management, analytics and advanced AI. It enables organizations to leverage data easily and accelerate the development of more advanced, data-driven solutions such as those aimed at disease risk prediction, medical image classification, biomarker discovery and drug development. Cross-functional teams – from physician-scientists to computational biologists – can also use data from this product to build a holistic view of the patient and make real-time decisions.
To make these applications simpler, Lakehouse for Healthcare comes with a bunch of solution accelerators and open-source libraries (such as GLOW for genomics) backed by a certified ecosystem of partners. When combined together, these elements help data users jumpstart their analytics projects and save weeks to months of development time.
The partner ecosystem, Databricks explained, includes companies like Deloitte, Lovelytics, John Snow Labs and ZS Associates. John Snow Labs will help enterprises analyze unstructured medical text using NLP for use cases such as oncology research, drug safety monitoring and anonymizing personal health information. Meanwhile, Lovelytics and ZS Associates help with automating the ingestion of streaming Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resource bundles and improving biomarker discovery for precision medicine.
Customer base Databricks is making the new lakehouse offering generally available starting today. However, some enterprises have already had a chance to use it early, including GE Healthcare, Regeneron, ThermoFisher and Walgreens.
“The Databricks Lakehouse for Healthcare and Life Sciences is helping GE Healthcare with a modern, open and collaborative platform to build patient views across care pathways. By unifying our data in a single platform with a full suite of analytics and ML capabilities, we’ve diminished costly legacy data silos and equipped our teams with timely and accurate insights.” Joji George, CTO of LCS Digital at GE Healthcare, said.
The move further expands Databricks’ lakehouse ecosystem, which competes directly with Snowflake’s data cloud.
 Other players in the same space are Dremio, Google BigQuery, and Amazon Redshift.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
