Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Watch Opté remove the spots on Dean Takahashi’s face Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Procter & Gamble surprised us by showing up at CES , the big tech trade show in Las Vegas, for the first time in the company’s 182-year history. And it showed off some cool products, like Opté, which removes spots on your skin, at least temporarily.
The product is part of P&G’s effort to bring technology to ordinary products and lead market disruption. Doing so is, of course, a better strategy than allowing yourself to be disrupted. I like how the company makes technology fade into the woodwork — although Opté really is a brand-new product category.
After 10 years of development and over 40 patents, P&G Ventures, a startup studio within P&G, has finally introduced the product, which combines proprietary algorithms and printing technology with skincare to scan, detect, and correct imperfections. The company touts its precision application as delivering a visibly flawless skin tone. When you move the blue light device over your face, it zeroes in on blemishes and treats those areas only, not the skin that surrounds it. A tiny inkjet printer deposits picoliter-size drops of the treatment on your skin.
I got to use this tech in a demo at the Pepcom party last night, and you can see that it erased some big spots on my skin, without changing my overall skin tone at all.
Sadly, when you wash the treatment off the spots come back. Over time, though, they may not look as bad. Funai Electric provided the inkjet microfluidics technology used in the Opté.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
