Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Procter & Gamble shows off surprisingly cool tech in ordinary products Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Gillette's heated razor Procter & Gamble (P&G) is 182 years old, but this week marks its first appearance at CES , the big tech trade show in Las Vegas. The company said its new focus is on leading disruption through technology, and it showed some very cool tech in what would otherwise be very ordinary products.
It’s part of the internet of things trend, and P&G is focused on putting sensors and artificial intelligence into things like skin advisers, razors, and blemish removers. I was impressed with the company’s effort to put technology into ordinary products in such a way that it just fades into the woodwork.
P&G said it is using technology to transform every aspect of the experience consumers have with its product lines, which range from Gillette to Olay.
The products that make up P&G’s LifeLab concept include: SK-II Future X Smart Store is a traveling learning lab and pop-up store that uses facial recognition, smart sensors, and computer vision technology to provide next-generation smart skincare counseling.
Olay Skin Advisor is an online beauty tool that uses artificial intelligence to analyze your selfies and make custom skincare recommendations. It is trained on 50,000 algorithms that can do things like calculate your age and come up with tailored advice. This launched last year and has already drawn more than 5 million visitors. It’s now getting an upgrade with even better tech.
Aria is a connected home fragrance device that can distribute custom levels of scent throughout your home, managed conveniently through a mobile app. Funai Electric provided the scent-jet technology used to distribute the fragrance.
Above: P&G’s smart toothbrush.
Image Credit: Dean Takahashi Oral-B Genius X with artificial intelligence is a toothbrush that combines the knowledge of thousands of human brushing behaviors to assess individual brushing styles and coach users to achieve better brushing habits. The AI technology tracks where people are brushing in their mouth and offers personalized feedback on the areas that require additional attention.
Above: P&G’s Opte Image Credit: Dean Takahashi Opté. After 10 years of development and over 40 patents, P&G Ventures, a startup studio within P&G, is introducing Opté, which combines proprietary algorithms and printing technology with skincare to scan, detect, and correct imperfections with precision application for visibly flawless skin tone. When you move the blue light device over your face, it zeroes in the on blemishes and treats those areas only, not the skin that surrounds it. Funai Electric provided the inkjet microfluidics technology used in the Opté.
Above: Gillette’s heated razor turns orange when it is on.
Image Credit: Dean Takahashi Gillette self-heating razor. This razor heats itself so you can enjoy a shave with a warm, comfortable blade. It has sensors that shut it down if the heat gets too high. I felt it and it was surprisingly warm, even though it looks like any other fancy metal razor.
DS3 is an engineered soap that can clean with a lot less water. In fact, P&G estimates it can save 800 million gallons by eliminating the water wasted each day.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
