Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Fugue: 36% of organizations have suffered a serious cloud leak or breach in the last year Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
A survey of 300 cloud engineering professionals found that 36% of organizations suffered a serious cloud security data leak or a breach in the past 12 months. Eight out of ten are concerned they’re vulnerable to a major cloud data breach , and 64% say the problem will get worse or remain the same over the next year. The findings are part of The State of Cloud Security 2021 report, produced by Fugue and Sonatype.
Above: The Fugue and Sonatype State of Cloud Security 2021 report found that 36% of orgs suffered a breach in the last year As the scale of cloud environments grows, cloud teams say that risks — and the challenges and costs of addressing them — are increasing. The primary causes of cloud misconfiguration are too many APIs and interfaces to govern, cited by 32%, 31% cited a lack of controls and oversight, 27% cited a lack of policy awareness, and 32% cited team negligence. 21% are not checking Infrastructure as Code (IaC) prior to deployment, and 20% are not adequately monitoring their cloud environment.
Cloud security teams tasked with preventing and eliminating cloud misconfiguration vulnerabilities are struggling with many familiar security issues, including false positives (cited by 27%), alert fatigue (21%) and human error (38%). 36% are finding it difficult to hire and retain cloud security professionals, and 35% cite challenges with training. Half say their teams are investing 50+ engineering hours per week to IaC security, and a similar investment is going to cloud runtime security.
When asked what they need to more effectively manage cloud security, 96% say having one set of policies that works for both IaC and the cloud runtime would be valuable. 47% say they need better visibility into their cloud environment, and 43% say that better compliance auditing and reporting automation would help.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Fugue partnered with Sonatype to survey 300 DevOps, cloud, and security engineers on cloud security risks, challenges, and organizational impact. The online survey was conducted by Propeller Insights.
Read then full report by Fugue and Sonatype here.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
