Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Cloud directory service JumpCloud raises $159M as remote work booms Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn JumpCloud: Device security Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
JumpCloud , a cloud-based directory service used by enterprises such as Splunk, Square, and Matterport, has raised $159 million in a series F round of funding at a $2.56 billion valuation.
In the IT sphere, directory services are a core component of network operating systems and are chiefly concerned with mapping, storing, locating, retrieving, and managing items across a network — including devices, user identities, accounts, files and folders, and more. They are part of the broader identity and access management (IAM) sphere, a market pegged at nearly $12 billion in 2019 and projected to more than double within six years.
The directory service, specifically, enables companies to connect their workforce with the IT resources needed to execute their jobs. The market is largely dominated by Microsoft’s Active Directory , given that most endpoints have historically been Windows-based PCs, which remains the case when it comes to on-premise installations.
Remote control However, several trends have sparked a need for a more flexible directory service, such as the transition to web apps, cloud infrastructure, alternative operating systems in the workplace (e.g. Linux and MacOS), and distributed workforce arrangements that may include employees accessing company systems from any number of locations and device-software configurations. JumpCloud is as much about supporting personal technological preferences as it is about managing access and identities.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “JumpCloud is an open platform that leverages industry standards,” chief product officer Jagadeesh Kunda told VentureBeat. “This matters because as workers demand to use whatever technology they want to be productive, IT has had a choice to say ‘no’ and become a blocker or buy a bunch of different tools to support secure access for the different technologies. JumpCloud provides a better option — a central directory that securely unifies identity and device management.” Depending on a person’s role or industry, fully remote or hybrid work arrangements will likely be the norm for millions more in a post-COVID world — one JumpCloud is particularly well-positioned to capitalize on.
“The pandemic made remote work the norm for companies of all sizes — they all scrambled to keep their staff productive over time wherever they had to work,” Kunda added. “This approach is not going away. That will mean that more companies will have to manage how their staff access their assets remotely — identity is the key element for this, as it is the only point of consistency, and small businesses will need help here as much as large enterprises with thousands of employees.” In the cloud With cloud infrastructure spending going through the roof , a trend accelerated somewhat by the global pandemic, JumpCloud is in a favorable position as a cloud-native solution that sits at the intersection between devices, user identities, and systems access. For enterprises, this means no longer having to manage hardware, patching, or upgrades, with admins able to easily manage Windows, Mac, and Linux devices from a single platform.
Above: JumpCloud: Interactive directory insights It is worth stressing, though, that JumpCloud is an entirely cloud-focused product — there is no scope for on-premises deployment. This might be a major drawback for some enterprises, but JumpCloud argues that the cloud helps businesses steer clear of “weak onboarding and offboarding procedures” and avoid many of the potential security risks associated with “ shadow IT ” scenarios in which workers end up storing sensitive data in places that don’t have rigorous security in place.
“The perception is that physical hardware on-prem gives a sense of control,” Kunda said. “Though potentially more customizable, this approach often leads to critical errors through improper management and maintenance of identity and access management infrastructure. Regardless of established routine, cloud-based IAM is more secure, flexible, and often more cost-effective for organizations of any size.” JumpCloud’s raise also comes amid a boom in activity in the IAM space, with Okta recently completing its $6.5 billion Auth0 acquisition and a slew of newer companies attracting venture capital investment.
 JumpCloud itself announced a $100 million series E round back in January. With today’s announcement, the Louisville, Colorado-based company has raised a total of $350 million since its inception in 2012. Its series F backers include a mix of new and old investors, such as Sapphire Ventures, BlackRock, General Atlantic, Owl Rock, H.I.G. Growth Partners, Whale Rock Capital, Sands Capital, and Endeavor Catalyst.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
