Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Complexity Gaming rebrands with an esports manifesto Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Complexity Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Esports club Complexity Gaming is rebranding itself for the Esports 3.0 era, where it says esports athletes will be treated just like professional sports stars.
The Frisco, Texas-based company said it has a new manifesto for esports, and that will drive an organization-wide shift. Market researcher Newzoo forecasts that esports revenue will grow from $906 million in 2018 to $1.7 billion by 2021, and this is a sign that investors are hot on this space.
Above: Complexity This overhaul includes an expanded company vision as well as a new logo, color scheme, and website uniquely aligned with their sister team, the Dallas Cowboys.
“We’re not just changing a logo. We are building upon Complexity’s legacy as an innovator in the space by paving the way yet again,” said Jason Lake, CEO of Complexity Gaming. “This expanded vision takes everything we have learned over the course of the last 16 years as a premier esports organization and levels it up — setting a new standard and revolutionizing how esports organizations should operate.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Above: Complexity Gaming’s manifesto.
Complexity’s manifesto “This is Our Game” represents a focus on inclusion, access, and support for the next generation of esports players and fans.
The organization’s brand narrative and player-centric mentality will deepen with the anticipated opening of Complexity’s new headquarters, the GameStop Performance Center , which will include state-of-the-art performance training and recovery facilities for players as well as a public space for fans and sponsors among other amenities.
Above: Complexity As represented by Complexity’s new logo design, the five points of the star articulate the company’s five C’s brand pillars: Competition, Community, Culture, Cause, and Convergence. Each pillar represents a specific area of focus: • Competition: Continuing to build competitive teams.
• Community: Engaging esports fans both locally and globally.
• Culture: Addressing the dynamic needs of a diverse and growing audience.
• Cause: Contributing to meaningful and relevant causes.
• Convergence: Incorporating advances in technology from traditional sports to continue to evolve and reshape the broader esports ecosystem as a whole.
I’m not if this will make them win more games. But they’re quite serious about it.
Complexity Gaming has won more than 140 championships in nearly 30 game titles over it’s more than 15 year history.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
