Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Roblox raises $150 million round led by Andreessen Horowitz Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Work at a Pizza Place has been played 1.9 billion times on Roblox.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Online gaming platform Roblox has raised $150 million in funding in a round led by Andreessen Horowitz’s late stage venture fund.
It seems the folks at Andreessen Horowitz have been playing a lot of user-generated games on Roblox, like Work at a Pizza Place or Meep City, each of which have gotten billions of plays on the platform.
In the funding round, Roblox is also offering employees and stakeholders an opportunity to participate in a secondary round. Roblox said it comes at a time of significant growth for Roblox as it hits new milestones including reaching over 115 million monthly active users and more than 1.5 billion hours of monthly engagement.
Roblox will use the funding to further grow its engineering team, and support creators around the world with the technology and infrastructure to build more immersive, collaborative experiences.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Additionally, Roblox said it is holding its seventh annual Bloxy awards on March 21 but this year the award show is going to be streamed in a brand new way — live within the platform. Roblox is available on a variety of platforms, including the PC, Mac, consoles, virtual reality platforms like Oculus and HTC, and mobile devices.
It’s not clear why Roblox needs to raise the money, as it should be making a lot of money on all those users. But it is a very ambitious company, competing with rivals such as Microsoft’s Minecraft. Roblox has now raised more than $185 million.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
