Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Mainframe Industries raises $8.3 million for cloud-native games Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn This image is from the first cloud-native game being made by Mainframe Industries.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Mainframe Industries has raised $8.3 million to develop cloud-native games in a financing led by Andreessen Horowitz , with additional investment from Riot Games.
The Finnish-Icelandic gaming studio founded by former CCP, Remedy Entertainment, and Next Games veterans is developing an unannounced cloud-native massively multiplayer online game that is designed and built at Mainframe’s Helsinki and Reykjavik studios.
“We are starting from the ground up with no legacy to constrain us, across mobile, PC or console,” said Thor Gunnarsson, the CEO of Mainframe Industries, in an interview with GamesBeat. “All platforms are equally strong.” Existing investors Maki.vc, Play Ventures, Sisu Game Ventures, and Crowberry Capital all joined the new round of funding.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Above: Part of Mainframe’s Helsinki team.
In cloud gaming, a game is computed in internet-connected datacenters, and then the results are sent via video to a user’s screen. That enables high-end games to tap the vast computing and memory systems in the cloud and then display the results on a user’s machine, whether that’s a low-end laptop, a desktop gaming PC, a mobile device, or a console display such as a TV.
“There are so many different aspects of being cloud-native that we can benefit from,” Gunnarsson said. “The player population and simultaneous player counts is one benefit. But we see other aspects of being able to develop for a single runtime targeted in the cloud, giving us the potential to access faster, greater storage for the game, allowing us to basically create a much more vibrant and detailed world.” Above: Part of Mainframe’s Icelandic team.
Cloud gaming allows for seamless crossplay between mobile, PC and console, allowing players to access their game from any device and play against anyone on any machine. Streaming games via the cloud is a lot like what Netflix or Spotify did for film and music.
More details about the game will be revealed later, Gunnarsson said. It is an open world, sandbox MMO, and the aim is to build out a persistent online world accessible from any screen.
Regarding Andreessen Horowitz, Gunnarsson said, “We were deeply impressed by their take on the games industry and how the industry is developing. We were aligned on the trends that are important. The thing that clinched it is they have strong operating partners.” Gunnarsson said that his team also spent a lot of time with Riot Games, maker of League of Legends.
“The value of that relationship is the ability to gain advice from the right leadership team with unparalleled expertise in live operations and monetization,” he said.
Above: A scene from Mainframe Industries upcoming MMO.
With further details of their MMO to be announced at a future date, Mainframe is now focusing on growing their teams in both Helsinki and Reykjavik.
“The Mainframe team is a collection of superstars and the game maxes out ambition on technical and artistic fronts. Having worked with them since the get-go, I know these pioneers will change the way how we play games,” said newly named Chairman of the Board, Ilkka Kivimäki from Maki.vc.
The Mainframe Industries founders are Börkur Einarsson, Kjartan Pierre Emilsson, Thor Gunnarsson, Fridrik Haraldsson, Reynir Hardarson, Sulka Haro, Kristján Valur Jónsson, Jyrki, Korpi-Anttila, Saku Lehtinen, Ansu Lönnberg, Eetu Martola, Vigfús Ómarsson, Jón Helgi Thórarinsson.
The company has 20 people today in both Helsinki and Reykjavik. The team is using Epic Games’ Unreal Engine. The game is in pre-production, and work started about 18 months ago.
“We have a team that is really complimentary, with a number of people from Remedy with story backgrounds and console development, as well as key people from Next Games who have mobile game experience, and MMO people from CCP,” Gunnarsson said. “We felt that the opportunity to create a next-generation MMO that is designed to be more in the cloud-first really requires a team that has the skillset and background for each of these different corners of the industry.” GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
