Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Typeform raises $35 million to grow its user-friendly survey platform Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Popular online survey platform Typeform has raised $35 million in a series B round of funding led by General Atlantic, with participation from existing investors, including Index Ventures, Point Nine, and Connect Ventures.
Founded out of Barcelona in 2012, Typeform is setting out to create a “conversational approach to data collection,” as the company puts it. In real terms, Typeform is a cross-platform app designed to let its users create surveys and other kinds of forms that are simple, user-friendly, and easy on the eye.
It’s also designed for the mobile-first, touchscreen-oriented user, with surveys presented in a format that’s easy to follow and interact with.
Above: Typeforms In terms of pricing, Typeform follows a freemium model, with a basic free plan that limits the number of responses and fields on a given form. Users can then pay a monthly subscription to unlock unlimited fields and responses, as well as additional features.
Prior to now, Typeform had raised around $17.5 million in equity funding, the bulk of which arrived via its series A round two years ago.
 With its latest tranche of financing, the company said it will double down on efforts to grow its platform and global aspirations.
“We are proud to be the first company to transform the online data collection space by creating conversational forms,” noted Typeform co-CEO and cofounder Robert Muñoz. “But now we’d like to take things further. Our partnership with General Atlantic will enable us to continue to bring world-class technology to our customers while further empowering our community of developers by bridging the gap between data collection and customer interaction.” The funding announcement also coincides with the launch of a new developer portal that serves as an expansion to Typeform’s existing developer platform and ushers in greater access to the company’s API. The expansion is designed to help companies use Typeform in conjunction with other products. One example Typeform mentions is a new integration with email marketing service MailChimp that will allow companies to collect emails in MailChimp lists from a Typeform survey. Developers will also be able to create “more intuitive, custom-made survey forms than ever before,” the company said.
“Digital forms are transitioning from a simple data-collection tool into an integral part of the customer engagement journey,” added General Atlantic growth investor Chris Caulkin, who will now also join Typeform’s board of directors. “With its developer-targeted go-to-market strategy and versatile, highly customizable product, we believe there is a significant opportunity for Typeform to continue to grow.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
