Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft launches Azure Monitor public preview, H-Series VM instances Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A Microsoft Azure Monitor dashboard.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Microsoft today announced the launch of a new type of compute-intensive virtual machine (VM) instances for its Azure public cloud, along with a public preview for a new cloud infrastructure monitoring service called Azure Monitor.
Azure Monitor gives Azure customers a tool for checking the status of Azure resources they’re using, including VMs. The service provides an activity log and metrics, and it lets users create shareable dashboards and sign up for notifications. It’s accessible from the Azure portal, but data can also be accessed through application programming interfaces (APIs), Azure Monitor senior program manager Ashwin Kamath wrote in a blog post.
Now Azure has its own first-party monitoring tool, just like public cloud market leader Amazon Web Services (AWS) has CloudWatch and Google Cloud Platform has StackDriver.
Microsoft does already offer cloud-based monitoring tools, and some of them can be used as extensions of Azure Monitor. “Azure Monitor enables you to easily stream metrics and diagnostic logs to OMS [Operations Management Suite] Log Analytics to perform custom log search and advanced alerting on the data across resources and subscriptions,” Kamath wrote. “Azure Monitor metrics and logs for Web Sites and VMs can be easily routed to Visual Studio Application Insights, unlocking deep application performance management within the Azure portal.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! On top of that, Azure Monitor has integrations with monitoring and log analysis tools from other companies, including AppDynamics, Atlassian, Cloudyn, DataDog, New Relic, PagerDuty, Splunk, and Sumo Logic.
The new H-Series instances are now available only through the South Central US Azure region, with more geographical availability to come, Azure compute principal program manager Tejas Karmarkar wrote in a blog post.
 The instances have 8-16 cores, 56-224 GiB of RAM, and 1-2 TiB of solid-state local disk space.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
