Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Facebook introduces more customizable avatars to social VR app Spaces Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Facebook has added more variety to avatars in the Facebook Spaces social VR app.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Facebook is announcing that more customizable avatars, or virtual characters, are coming to Facebook Spaces, its social virtual reality application. The fully redesigned avatars in Facebook Spaces are more expressive and customizable than in the past. The update is all in the spirit of having a meaningful social experience in VR.
“You need an engaging avatar that represents you and helps you relate to other people in the virtual space,” the company said in a blog post ahead of the Tribeca Film Festival , which has a VR section. “It’s a huge part of feeling like you’re ‘really there’ together. That’s why we’ve been continuously working to learn what helps people represent and express themselves while spending time with friends in VR.” In Facebook Spaces, people can bring their virtual selves to shared experiences from dance parties to live VR broadcasts.
In the past, people only had a few options to choose from when customizing features, like hair color or eye shape. And some of the avatars’ movements didn’t seem as lifelike as they could be.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Above: The avatar on the right represents richer virtual characters in Facebook Spaces, the VR app.
“Our goal is that everyone can represent themselves in VR in a way that feels natural, so we knew we could do better,” Facebook said.
To improve the avatars, Facebook’s engineers and artists drew on techniques from film animation, graphics, game character design, and mathematics to create a revamped version of avatars for Spaces.
Now there are hundreds of new options to customize your appearance, including new head shapes, hairstyles, and facial features to choose from. You can also customize your body type for the first time. It’s easier to fine-tune your look with new controls to adjust the size, position, and angle of your features in the avatar creator.
“We’ve worked on making avatars feel more present in the VR space with richer materials, better lighting and shadows. We’ve also fine-tuned the tech under the hood to make avatar body movements look more fluid and natural,” Facebook said.
Above: Facebook Spaces can suggest an avatar for you.
The system also provides people with avatar suggestions using machine learning.
The avatar updates will roll out in Facebook Spaces this week.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
