Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Quantum computing startup Quantum Machines raises $50M Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Quantum Machines' cofounders (left to right): Drs. Nissim Ofek, Yonatan Cohen, and Itamar Sivan.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Quantum Machines , a company that’s setting out to “bring about useful quantum computers,” has raised $50 million in a series B round of funding as it looks to fund expansion into quantum cloud computing.
Founded out of Tel Aviv in 2018, Quantum Machines last year formally launched its Quantum Orchestration Platform , pitched as an extensive hardware and software platform for “performing the most complex quantum algorithms and experiments” and taking quantum computing to the next level by making it more practical and accessible.
Based on principles from quantum mechanics , quantum computing is concerned with quantum bits ( qubits ) rather than atoms. While still in its relative infancy, quantum computing promises to revolutionize computation by performing in seconds complex calculations that would take the supercomputers of today years or longer. The societal and business implications of this are huge and could expedite new drug discoveries or enhance global logistics in the shipping industry to optimize routes and reduce carbon footprints.
Quantum Machines is focused on developing a new approach to controlling and operating quantum processors.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “Quantum processors hold the potential for immense computational power, far beyond those of any classical processor we could ever develop, and they will impact each and every aspect of our lives,” Quantum Machines CEO Dr. Itamar Sivan said in a press release.
Quantum leap Venture capital (VC) investments in quantum computing have been relatively modest , but Ionq became the first such company to go public via a SPAC merger in March. And a few months back, PsiQuantum closed a $450 million round of funding to develop the first “commercially viable” quantum computer, with big-name backers that included BlackRock and Microsoft’s M12 venture fund. Microsoft also launched its Azure Quantum cloud computing service, which it first announced back in 2019 , in public preview.
So quantum computing appears to be gaining momentum, as evidenced by Quantum Machines’ latest raise. The company had previously raised $23 million, including a $17.5 million series A from last year , and its series B round was led by Red Dot Capital Partners, with the participation from Samsung Next, Battery Ventures, Valor Equity Partners, Exor, Claridge Israel, Atreides Management LP, TLV Partners, and 2i Ventures, among others.
The company said it plans to use its fresh capital to help implement an “effective cloud infrastructure for quantum computers.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
