Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Trend Micro: 80% of global orgs anticipate customer data breach in the next year Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
A staggering 86% of global organizations believe they will suffer serious cyber attacks in the next year and 80% reported they are likely to experience a data breach, according to a new report by Trend Micro and the Ponemon Institute. The greatest risk was found in North America.
Based on the global survey results, the greatest areas of concern for businesses are centered around three areas. Many organizations said they aren’t prepared enough to manage new attacks across employees, executives, and board members. Others stressed the lack of sufficient processes to combat attacks, ranging from patching to threat sharing. Finally, organizations have a strong need to evaluate their existing security tools and ensure they’re using the latest advanced detections technologies across their networks.
Taking the current threat landscape into consideration and based on the CRI findings, global businesses can still greatly minimize their risks by implementing security best practices.
 It’s important to build security around critical data by focusing on risk management and the threats that could target the data. Organizations should look to minimize infrastructure complexity and improve alignment across the whole security stack and review existing security solutions with the latest technologies. There must also be a focus on people. Senior leadership needs to view security as a competitive advantage and priority and organizations need to invest in both new and existing talent to help them keep up with the rapidly evolving threat landscape.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Trend Micro and the Ponemon Institute teamed up to investigate the level of cyber risk across organizations and create a Cyber Risk Index (CRI), a comprehensive measure of the gap between and organization’s current security posture and its likelihood of being attacked.
 A total of 3,677 respondents were surveyed across North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific and Latin America.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
