Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google’s Cloud Services Platform is now Anthos, and it works with AWS and Azure Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google CEO Sundar Pichai announces the debut of Anthos during the keynote address at Moscone Center on April 9, 2019 in San Francisco Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Google today announced that Anthos, a service for hybrid cloud and workload management run on the Google Kubernetes Engine , is now generally available. Anthos will work with Google Cloud Platform of course, but also plays well with multiple other cloud providers, including some of Google’s biggest competitors: Amazon’s AWS and Microsoft’s Azure.
Anthos is the new name for the Cloud Services Platform , which Google introduced in beta for hybrid cloud management last year. Google also introduced Anthos Migrate in beta for portability across clouds without the need to modify apps or virtual machines.
“It gives you the flexibility to move on-prem apps to the cloud when you’re ready,” Google CEO Sundar Pichai said today onstage at the Cloud Next developer conference in San Francisco.
Also announced today: The new Cloud Run for serverless and portable compute , partnerships with some of the leading open source projects, new regions in Salt Lake City and Seoul , and instances for Nvidia’s Quadro Virtual Workstation powered by T4 GPUs.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Anthos will launch with support from 30 major tech and developer services and will be supported by infrastructure service providers like Cisco, MongoDB, HPE, and VMware.
A number of Kubernetes apps were also introduced for the Google Cloud Platform last summer.
In 2014, Google open-sourced the Kubernetes project for containers that can run applications on cloud-based or on-premises servers. Kubernetes is now overseen by Linux Foundation’s Cloud Native Computing Foundation.
Containers like Docker and Kubernetes are an increasingly popular way to deploy apps and AI. A number of solutions have been made available in the past year that focus on deploying AI from Kubernetes containers, particularly for organizations interested in portability for on-premises or cloud-based inference such as Intel’s Nauta project for distributed deep learning and Linux Foundation’s Acumos AI platform.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
