Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Security.org: 68% of Americans use the same password across accounts Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Login page on laptop screen.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
In conjunction with Cybersecurity Awareness Month, a new report by Security.org finds that 68% of Americans use the same password across accounts.
This isn’t the only disturbing password statistic: More than one in three of Americans (37%) also share passwords with others — up 25% from last year. That rise may be due to increased sharing of streaming services’ login information. Research found about 88 million accounts are “borrowed” from people outside the account holder.
While the report also found nearly 40% of more than 1,000 U.S. adults’ passwords have been hacked, and less than half feel very confident in the security of their passwords , there were encouraging security measures that took place in the past year.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Notably, 85% are now employing two-factor authentication, adding a layer of online security to their passwords. In addition, the use of password generators nearly doubled year-over-year, from 15% to 27%, and password management services or browser vaults increased by 10%.
Furthermore, Americans have ditched shorter passwords of fewer than eight characters, with 84% using at least eight. However, more than half use familiar names in their passwords, such as their own name, their children’s names, or their pet’s names. Using familiar names makes hackers’ work easier, as greater portions of users’ personal, professional, and financial lives transpire online.
Americans have a lot to learn about managing passwords. After all, the most used password in the U.S. is “123456,” which can be cracked in less than a second.
Read the full report by Security.org.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
