Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages 45% of execs admit initiatives to secure software supply chains are incomplete Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Computer server access.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Forty-five percent of executives admit that initiatives to secure their software supply chains are halfway complete or less, and 64% say they are not sure who they would turn to first if their supply chain was attacked.
DevOps platform maker CloudBees surveyed 500 C-suite executives across the U.S., U.K., France, and Germany to understand how they felt about their supply chain security and compliance. The survey uncovered that while many executives said they were prepared, when asked about their specific response plans, the responses didn’t match up.
Overwhelmingly, 95% claim their software supply chains are secure (95%), or very secure (55%); however, when asked further about the security of their supply chain, the responses revealed they may not be as prepared as originally thought. On the surface, leaders are confident in their software supply chains, but more than two in five (45%) admit that initiatives to secure their software supply chains are halfway complete or less, and 64% say they are not sure who they would turn to first if their supply chain was attacked.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Security is now top of mind for members of the boardroom, with the past year seeing an unprecedented number of attacks, specifically on the supply chain. According to the survey results, almost all C-suite executives (95%) say they think more about securing their supply chain now than just two years ago. Despite the attention and discussion around potential supply chain attacks, 64% of those surveyed say it would take more than four days to fix the problem if they did experience an issue. And, while 93% of executives say they routinely practice dealing with a supply chain production vulnerability, 58% say that if they experienced one they have no idea what their company would do.
Ultimately, while security is top of mind for C-suite executives, many are still unsure of how to actually secure the supply chain and ensure preparedness if that day does come.
Read the full report from CloudBees.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
