Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Event Transform 2021 puts the spotlight on women in AI Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Submit your nominations for the women in AI awards by July 9th at 5pm.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
VentureBeat is proud to bring back the Women in AI Breakfast and Awards online for Transform 2021. In the male-dominated tech industry, women are constantly faced with the gender equity gap. There is so much work in the tech industry to become more inclusive of bridging the gender gap while at the same time creating a diverse community.
VentureBeat is committed year after year to emphasize the importance of women leaders by giving them the platform to share their stories and obstacles they face in their male-dominated industries. As part of Transform 2021 , we are excited to host our annual Women in AI Breakfast , presented by Capital One, and recognize women leaders’ accomplishments with our Women in AI Awards.
Women in AI Breakfast: VentureBeat’s third annual Women in AI Breakfast , presented by Capital One, will commemorate women leading the AI industry. Join the digital networking session and panel on July 12 at 7:35 a.m. Pacific.
This digital breakfast includes networking and a discussion on the topic surrounding “Women in AI: a seat at the table.” Our panelists will explore how we can get more women into the AI workforce, plus the roles and responsibilities of corporates, academia, governments, & society as a whole in achieving this goal.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Featured speakers include Kay Firth Butterfield, Head of AI and Machine Learning and Member of the Executive Committee, World Economic Forum; Kathy Baxter, Principal Architect, Ethical AI Practice, Salesforce; Tiffany Deng, Program Management Lead- ML Fairness and Responsible AI, Google; and Teuta Mercado, Responsible AI Program Director, Capital One.
Registration for Transform 2021 is required for attendance.
Women in AI Awards: Once again, VentureBeat will be honoring extraordinary women leaders at the Women in AI Awards.
 The five categories this year include Responsibility & Ethics of AI, AI Entrepreneur, AI Research, AI Mentorship, and Rising Star.
Submit your nominations by July 9th at 5 p.m. Pacific.
Learn more about the nomination process here.
The winners of the 2021 Women in AI Awards will be presented at VB Transform on July 16th, alongside the AI Innovation Awards.
Register for Transform 2021 to join online.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
