Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages AI lifecycle management startup Cnvrg.io launches free community tier Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Cnvrg.io , a data science startup headquartered in Jerusalem and New York, today released a community version of its machine learning automation platform designed to help enterprises manage and scale AI. CEO Yochay Ettun says the release was motivated in part by the influx of social distancing and remote work stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic.
“The release of cnvrg.io CORE is our contribution to the strong data science community responsible for advancing AI innovation,” said Ettun. “CORE’s release marks a new vision for the data science field. As data scientists, we built CORE to fill the need that so many data scientists require, to focus less on infrastructure and more on what they do best — algorithms.” CORE facilitates machine learning workflow management with end-to-end AI model tracking and monitoring. Its built-in cluster orchestration supports hybrid cloud and multi-cloud configurations, and its compute querying and autoscaling — which can be fine-tuned from a dashboard — ensure that every available resource is fully utilized.
CORE can be installed on-premises or in a cloud environment directly from Cnvrg.io’s website. Developers can connect data sources to it to build and automatically retrain machine learning models; run machine learning experiments at scale to ensure reproducibility; and deploy to production with any framework or programming language.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! There’s no shortage of orchestration platforms in the over $1.5 billion global machine learning market. Amazon recently rolled out SageMaker Studio, an extension of its SageMaker platform that automatically collects all code and project folders for machine learning in one place. Google offers its own solution in Cloud AutoML , which supports tasks like classification, sentiment analysis, and entity extraction, as well as a range of file formats, including native and scanned PDFs. Not to be outdone, Microsoft recently introduced enhancements to Azure Machine Learning , its service that enables users to architect predictive models, classifiers, and recommender systems for cloud-hosted and on-premises apps, and IBM has a comparable product in Watson Studio AutoAI.
But two-year-old Cnvrg.io, which is backed by Jerusalem Venture Partners and private investors Kevin Bermeister and Prashant Malik, has managed to raise $8 million in venture capital to date and attract customers that include Nvidia, Sisense, NetApp, Lightricks, and Wargaming.net.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
