Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages What medtech can learn from digital health Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Brian Russell of Zephyr Anywhere, left, speaks with Stacy Enxing Seng of Covidien Vascular Therapies at VentureBeat's 2014 HealthBeat conference in San Francisco on Oct. 27.
SAN FRANCISCO — Big medical technology companies have the trust of hospitals. But digital-health startups are the ones developing the most exciting new technologies. Given partnerships and acquisitions lately, it looks like these two kinds of businesses can help each other.
Take medical-device maker Covidien, which bought wearable-device startup Zephyr Anywhere earlier this year. Covidien is publicly traded, and it’s only natural that it looks out for technology that can improve performance, lower costs, and enhance patient experiences, while also being predictable from a top-line and bottom-line perspective.
“Zephyr was able to do that beautifully,” Stacy Enxing Seng, president of Covidien’s vascular therapies division, said onstage today at VentureBeat’s 2014 HealthBeat conference.
Look, too, at Intel’s Basis acquisition and Medtronic’s Corventis purchase as more proof that big companies are looking for health innovations. (Meanwhile, even Medtronic moved to buy Covidien itself.
And in addition to outright acquisitions, medical-technology companies’ venture arms — like the one Covidien has, for example — can help these old-school companies “gain insights on emerging therapies or possibilities that can be incorporated into the company,” Enxing Seng said.
That might be because startups can get technology out quickly, while legacy companies have deep experience with the regulatory approval process.
“It takes a lot of dollars typically to move it through the health care system,” Enxing Seng said.
The young startups, though, don’t always match up culturally with the big companies they team up with.
“They don’t swear at meetings,” said Brian Russell, Zephyr Anywhere’s chief executive, triggering audience laughter. But more generally, startups do “need to learn their language” in order to explain to them the ways in which their hip technologies can align with the needs of the med-tech providers.
In any case, the collaboration is happening on a greater scale as of late, and it seems these new digital-health startups have an approach the med-tech vendors like.
“I think consumerification of health care is very, very important,” Russell said.
HealthBeat is a two-day conference covering how new ways of tracking our personal data can improve our health and health care system.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
