Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Nreal unveils enterprise edition of mixed-reality glasses Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Nreal has a new enterprise edition of its mixed-reality glasses.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Nreal is unveiling a new mixed-reality headset for enterprise users, and it is also making its Nreal Light model available in additional countries after launching it in Korea and Japan last year.
Starting today, Nreal will expand Nreal Light to new key markets including the European Union and the U.S. The enterprise edition makes sense because the technology is still pretty expensive for consumers. Enterprise customers, on the other hand, don’t mind paying more for high-end mixed reality solutions, especially if it makes highly paid employees more productive.
The enterprise headset is expected to launch in 2021. One of the sweet spots for mixed-reality technology, whether its virtual reality or augmented reality, has been in virtual training, where the costs of making mistakes with very expensive equipment aren’t as high as they would be in the real world.
Asked about the timing of the enterprise edition, Nreal told VentureBeat that while Nreal Light offers a compact and lightweight form factor that resonates with consumers, enterprise clients have also been using these MR glasses in conjunction with Nreal’s proprietary computing pack (CPU) as an enterprise device.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Above: Nreal is launching an enterprise edition.
It is also debuting new content and technology partners including Finch Technology’s FinchRing , a hands-free MR controller. The FinchRing is a new hands-free six degree of freedom (6DoF) mixed reality controller offering full freedom of movement and seamless interaction with 360-degree spatial tracking. FinchRing works in or out of Nreal Light’s Field of View (FoV) and can be used indoors, outdoors and in any weather condition.
Last year, Nreal launched its Nreal Light mixed reality glasses, aiming to make augmented reality more accessible to consumers. In 2021, Nreal wants to bring mass adoption another step closer.
Nreal is entering the fray with a new class of enterprise headsets. The company is launching a customizable and lightweight MR headset that the company will show off at Mobile World Congress Shanghai 2021.
The Nreal Enterprise Edition tethers to a computing unit and battery pack for longger-lasting power. Sporting a wrap-around halo design, Nreal Enterprise Edition also offers a balanced fit from front-to-back. And for added convenience, users can also control the enterprise headset through eye-tracking and gesture recognition technologies.
Above: Nreal’s headsets are tethered to a computing unit and battery pack.
The company is targeting enterprise customers in manufacturing, retail, tourism, education, logistics, and automotive markets. Both the software and hardware can be made-to-order.
Nreal said its Nreal Light launch in Korea went well, as it was launched in 20 LG Uplus retail stores in Korea, and has since expanded to 220 locations throughout the country. LG Uplus has also expanded its catalog of Nreal Light compatible apps from 700 to 3,000 as developers and carriers support the mobile platform.
Users have spent an average of 49 minutes per day on Nreal Light. The top 20% of users spend an average of 120 minutes per day. Nreal also launched its headset in Japan in a partnership with KDDI.
Nreal Light will launch in the European Union through a partnership with the region’s two leading carriers, while it will launch in the U.S. in Q2 2021. Nreal will show off new MR apps coming to Nreal Light during Mobile World Congress. These include Tagesschau 2025, a weather app that beams a holographic weather anchor before your eyes; Dunkaar, a basketball game where you can shoot and dunk virtual basketballs; Dragon Awakening, a heroic fantasy online game; Magenta Sport, an AR version of football; and an MR version of the rhythm game Space Channel 5.
The company isn’t disclosing its sales yet. Nreal has raised $85 million to date, including a recent $55 million round. It has 250 employees.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
