Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Labelbox raises $25 million to grow its data-labeling platform for AI model training Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Labelbox CTO Dan Rasmuson, CEO Manu Sharma, and COO Brian Rieger Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Labelbox today announced the close of a $25 million series B round to grow its platform that helps customers label the data needed to train AI systems.
The round was led by Andreessen Horowitz, with participation from Google’s AI-focused Gradient Ventures fund, Kleiner Perkins, and First Round Capital.
The funds will be used to develop and accelerate Labelbox’s roadmap for machine learning and computer vision models by doubling the size of its engineering and sales teams.
Labelbox also enables users to automate some labeling so a company can manually label all data except any that falls below a particular prediction confidence threshold, COO Brian Rieger told VentureBeat in a phone interview.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The funding will also be used to codify best practices and standard metrics for model performance among data scientists, developers, and data engineers, in part by working with university and business partners.
“What happens today very often is that folks come out of the academic institutions, and they’ve kind of got that academic side of machine learning, but they haven’t experienced the process of taking a production system from nothing into production. And there are some common technologies, common formulas that need to be developed and understood amongst the community,” he said.
Among the standardization policies Labelbox seeks: Common data exchange file formats and the need for roles within organizations — like data-labeling operations manager — to accelerate AI deployment and advance company business goals.
“Labeling operations manager is this role that’s never been defined before globally but exists within many of the companies we work with,” Rieger said.
Data annotation startups that raised funding recently include CloudFactory and Alegion.
Labelbox has now raised $39 million to date, including a $10 million series A in April 2019. Andreessen Horowitz general partner Peter Levine will join the board as part of the latest round.
The company was founded in 2018 and is based in San Francisco, with 30 employees.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
