Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages 58% of employees say hybrid and remote options are here to stay Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Xanadu headquarters in Toronto, Canada Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Going forward, only 24% of employees will be permanently based in an office and working at a single desk. 58% will either be pure WFH or hybrid workers. For many, today’s digital transformation priorities look very different when compared to priorities pre-pandemic.
The COVID-19 pandemic has brought about huge workplace disruption for organizations of all sizes, and across all industries and geographies. Work-style disruptions have brought about great change, not only in where people are working, but also in the way that enterprises operate and in the way that work gets done. Organizations have rapidly accelerated efforts to deliver against digital imperatives, such as modernizing enterprise communications, improving collaboration, and managing and securing a more modern, mobile, and digitally enabled workforce.
While debate still rages on around where employees will work as restrictions ease, our data shows that most businesses are planning for more work to take place away from the traditional office environment over the long term. The conversation and focus must now switch away from the locations employees work from; businesses should plan to create an infrastructure that supports more modern work styles where employees can work from wherever they need to and with no compromises to security or productivity.
 While organizations “reacted to survive” during the initial stages of the pandemic, many organizations are entering a period of “reinvention to thrive.” Finally, a focus on people, process, and technology has never been more important. In overcoming the challenges brought about by the pandemic, organizations must strategize and make investments that focus on optimizing the value from people , processes, and technologies, as well as reinventing their former business model. This is by no means a new mandate, but it has become an imperative due to the scale and speed of technological, process, and people-centric changes and opportunities businesses now face.
Read the full report by Omdia.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
