Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon Managed Grafana for AWS hits general availability Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Grafana dashboard visualizing demo wind farm with data from AWS IoT SiteWise Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Let the OSS Enterprise newsletter guide your open source journey! Sign up here.
Amazon today announced the general availability of Amazon Managed Grafana , a fully managed offering that provides Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud customers an easy way to deploy Grafana alongside other AWS services.
Released in 2014, Grafana is an open source platform that helps businesses like PayPal and JPMorgan Chase take all their existing data, wherever it resides, and build dashboards to visualize the unified data in a single dashboard.
 On top of the open source incarnation, Grafana Labs offers enterprise-grade cloud and on-premises services with additional support and features, along with plugins for Elasticsearch, Jira, Datadog, Splunk, AppDynamics, Oracle, MongoDB, Snowflake, and more.
Above: AWS data sources for Grafana With the Amazon-flavored incarnation, Grafana now easily integrates with AWS data sources like Amazon CloudWatch, Amazon Elasticsearch Service, and the Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus. The tight integration means companies can create Grafana dashboards in AWS without having to manage any of the provisioning, setup, or maintenance processes.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! First announced in preview last December, Amazon Managed Grafana was created in direct partnership with Grafana Labs, and today’s announcement comes a week after Grafana Labs announced a fresh $220 million round at a $3 billion valuation.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
