Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Thomas Middleditch Let an AI Steal His Face to Make a New Movie About Released on 06/11/2018 (gasps) [Narrator] Thomas Middleditch is starring in a new movie.
(gasps) But this is no Silicon Valley.
Think about having sex with a jar of salsa.
[Narrator] Fortunately, this dialogue doesn't even matter.
Middleditch is having his face and voice copied so that an artificial intelligence named Benjamin, that's it right there on the laptop, can stitch them into a new film using face swapping and vocal synthesis technology.
Benjamin is a program that maniac over there designed.
[Narrator] That's Ross Goodwin, a technologist at Google and self-described gonzo data scientist.
Goodwin worked with director Oscar Sharp, Middleditch, and Benjamin on their first AI film, Sunspring, which was licensed by Wired's sister site, Ars Technica, in 2016.
Sunspring was made for a 48-hour, sci-fi film challenge.
The team fed Benjamin thousands of science fiction film scripts, and then had it write a new one.
In a future with mass unemployment, young people are forced to sell blood.
It's something I can do.
You should see the boy and shut up.
[Narrator] The idea was to see if the machine could write a screenplay that the filmmakers could work with.
Benjamin is a machine.
But Benjamin is also a story about machines.
It's a story about how machines and creativity can play together and what we can learn from that.
A big, honest idea.
The AI comes up with the script.
I have to go to the skull.
And it is our duty to execute them as if the AI was Scorsese.
Some lines in there, we're like, What does this mean? What does Benjamin mean by this? And after breaking it down, the best you can do is interpret it because you can't ask him.
That's right.
That was kind of fun.
Just like really playing it with like the most earnest intent of some of the bizarrest lines.
What are you doing? I don't want to be honest with you.
You don't have to be a doctor.
I'm not sure.
I don't know what you're talking about.
I wanna see you too.
What do you mean? [Narrator] After Sunspring, Sharp, Goodwin, and Benjamin teamed up again with, wait for it...
David Hasselhoff.
Activate Hoffbot.
Okay, pal, pick me up.
Dangerous world for a man who does not exist.
[Narrator] For this second film, the human filmmakers tried to take a more collaborative approach with the AI.
I don't like to think that I'm just making movies necessarily.
My whole thing has always been, What haven't we done yet? What can we try? And the nice thing about cinema is there's still lots of room to try things.
[Narrator] And so for this year's 48-hour film festival, they greenlit Benjamin to become a full auteur.
This year, we're having the machine actually create the movie visually as well as writing the screenplay.
Every decision is the computer's decision, and the movie, therefore, is directed by...
Written and directed by Benjamin.
[Narrator] That's why Middleditch and other actors are rambling and grimacing so that Benjamin can start building performances from their faces and voices.
Benjamin constructed its new movie using scenes from public domain films like this test scene from Night of the Living Dead.
At the moment, we're not in the place where we can say, It writes, 'There is a truck driving over the horizon.' And we can just conjure up an image of a truck.
I'm a pretty girl.
You are a pretty girl.
So instead what we though we'd do is let it, from its screenplay, select shots from public domain films.
And then using whichever shots that it's picked, drop these actors and these lines of dialogue into that movie.
[Narrator] Then at the start of the 48-hour mark, the team armed Benjamin with the actors' recordings, the scripts, and the public domain films to begin creating new scenes that would be edited into a final movie.
If this fails in its experiment, I'll be employable for the rest of time.
And if it doesn't fail and it in fact works, then you know I may not be employable as an actor.
But at least, I will have been there at the moment when we realized we were going to be replaced by computers.
[Narrator] Even if the film isn't a narrative success, the creators say, it holds a mirror up to the technologies that are increasingly blurring the line between truth and fiction, both in the movies and in real life.
That's so Benjamin.
[Narrator] In the last year, researchers digitally produced a lip-synced speech by former President Barack Obama.
The infrastructure that creates good, new jobs.
[Narrator] And users of so-called deep fake technology put the faces of celebrities on the bodies of porn actors.
We're entering an era in which our enemies can make it look like anyone is saying anything at any point in time.
[Narrator] It's become enough of an issue that director Jordan Peele made this PSA in April of this year.
This is a dangerous time.
A lot of times in movies you can't tell, but now you're watching news footage or interviews, and you just can't tell if it's real or not.
It's unsettling.
[Narrator] Unsettling maybe, but the filmmakers might say that's the whole idea behind the project.
Putting it in something that's more playful and entertaining is going to get a wider reach for that.
It's gonna help more people understand that this stuff can be done without needing armies of CG experts any more.
Good artists borrow.
Great artists steal.
So perhaps, Benjamin will prove to be the greatest of us all.
[Narrator] Or not.
In the end, the script was classic Benjamin, non-sequiturs and all.
I am aware of that.
What about the doctor? You can't do that.
[Narrator] And because of processing time, only first drafts of the face swaps were ready by deadline.
This scene shows perhaps the best face swapping, but it had to be cut to meet the contest's requirements for length.
This is incredible.
[Narrator] Still, the new film which is called Zone Out has its moments.
You don't know where this is going.
[Narrator] And it gives us a look at what happens when you unleash an AI on a creative project.
Even its musical score was generated by an AI.
You can judge for yourself.
The director's cut, including the deleted scene, is up now on Wired's sister site, Ars Technica.
How do you know what happens to that guy? I'm doing it for you.
Are you sure you need a problem? Thomas Middleditch & O'Shea Jackson Jr. Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions It Took 5 Actors to Create "Deadpool's" Colossus How Marvel Built the VFX in Ant-Man and the Wasp The Top 10 Special FX of 2014 President Barack Obama on the Future of AI AI Won't Replace Doctors, It'll Help Them | WIRED BizCon How 'Rogue One' Recreated Grand Moff Tarkin The Last Jedi Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Will AI Enhance or Hack Humanity? - Fei-Fei Li & Yuval Noah Harari in Conversation with Nicholas Thompson Here's Everything New From Google Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
