Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Proofpoint and the Ponemon Institute: Losses due to phishing have almost quadrupled since 2015 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Phishing fraud Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Costs from phishing attacks have tripled since 2015. The average annual cost of phishing has increased from $3.8 million in 2015 to $14.8 million in 2021. This is because phishing has a low entry barrier for cybercriminals with a high-value return. These emails are very easy to create, require little technical knowledge and most importantly, depend solely on one user clicking to succeed.
Phishing attacks not only had direct financial consequences but these attacks also increase the likelihood of a data breach, decrease employee productivity and increase the likelihood of a business disruption, all contributing additional costs. In fact, huge amounts of time and investment are spent dealing with the consequences of a phishing scam. Employee productivity losses are among the costliest to organizations, increasing from an average of $1.8 million in 2015 to $3.2 million in 2021.
Of note is how minimal the losses are from ransomware payments in the grand scheme of things. Ransomware annually costs large organizations $5.66 million. Of that, $790,000 accounts for the paid ransoms themselves. There is a much larger context to the costs these attacks can inflict.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Security training and awareness programs are the best remedy for addressing the dangers posed by phishing attacks. According to respondents, these programs can reduce phishing expenses by more than 50 percent on average. Users are a critical target in phishing attacks and the best defense is a people-centric approach to security.
The Ponemon Institute’s 2021 Cost of Phishing Study sponsored by Proofpoint surveyed 600 IT and IT security practitioners to better understand the risk and financial consequences of phishing. For the first time in this year’s study it looks at the threats and costs created by business email compromise (BEC), identity credentialing and ransomware in the workplace.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
