Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Open source services market on course to become $50B industry Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Concept illustration for open source software Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Let the OSS Enterprise newsletter guide your open source journey! Sign up here.
The open source services market, pegged at $21.7 billion in 2021, is on course to more than double within five years. That’s according to a new report from MarketsandMarkets, which predicts that the “professional” and “managed” open source services segments will grow 130% to $50 billion by 2026.
“Open source” refers to software that is made freely available for anyone to access, copy, and modify. It adheres to a collaborative, community-led philosophy that lowers both the bar to entry and the cost of building software. It also gives larger enterprises the freedom to deploy software wherever they wish, including on-premises — offering them greater control over customer data and allowing developers to more easily integrate the software into their existing systems and workflows.
On the flip side, switching to open source software might present compatibility issues, while inherent vulnerabilities and the threat of supply chain attacks can be another cause for concern. This is why the open source services market is predicted to flourish in the coming years, with MarketsandMarkets citing cloud computing adoption and broader digital transformations as a driving force behind this push. Enterprise-grade open source services support helps assure companies that their software stack is robust, secure, and kept up-to-date.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Notable players in the open source services space include Red Hat, which IBM acquired for $34 billion in 2018; Cisco; Oracle; Suse; and Databricks.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
