Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Fireflies raises $5 million for its AI assistant for meetings Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Fireflies.ai cofounders Krish Ramineni and Sam Udotong Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Fireflies.ai announced the close of a $5 million seed round today to grow its business and continue its effort to create an AI assistant dedicated to surfacing action items and next steps from what people say in meetings.
The seed round was led by Canaan Partners along with F7 Ventures and angel investors like former Slack CPO April Underwood, former Slack CMO Bill Macaitis, and Salesforce director of search Susan Kimberlin.
The funding will be used to grow the company’s machine learning and engineering ranks.
Fireflies launched the text-to-speech transcription service one year ago in October 2018.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Alongside services like Fireflies and startups like Voicea , automated transcription is increasingly becoming the norm. Automated transcription has become available in Microsoft Teams and even the Recorder app for Google’s Pixel 4.
Fireflies plans to be different by focusing on the recognition of questions in meetings, assigned tasks, major topics, and sentiment analysis.
Fireflies is also growing its language understanding for specific workflows for occupations like recruiters or people in sales.
“The other thing that we’re looking at that’s really important is adoption among teams, building for teams, building workflows, where people can access collaborate, like take it beyond this Recording transcription and being able to record audio,” Fireflies.ai cofounders Krish Ramineni told VentureBeat in a phone interview.
Fireflies connects with VoIP services for video calls as well like Zoom, Google Meet, and Cisco’s WebEx. After the meeting, flagged insights can be shared in team communication apps like Slack, Salesforce, or Hubspot.
Fireflies was founded by Ramineni and Sam Udotong in July 2016. The company has offices in Hyderabad, India and San Francisco and currently has 16 employees, Ramineni said.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
