Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Researchers develop algorithm to identify well-liked brands Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A woman looks at the Facebook logo on an iPad in this photo illustration.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Measuring sentiment can provide a snapshot of how customers feel about companies, products, or services. It’s important for organizations to be aware: 86% of people say that authenticity is a key factor when deciding what brands they like and support. In an Edelman survey, 81% of consumers said that they need to be able to trust a brand in order to buy products from them.
While sentiment analysis technology has been around for a while , researchers at the University of Maryland’s Robert H. Smith School of Business claim to have improved upon prior methods with a new system that leverages machine learning. They say that their algorithm, which sorts through social media posts to understand how people perceive brands, can comb through more data and better measure favorability.
Sentiment analysis isn’t a perfect science , but social media provides rich signals that can be used to help shape brand strategies.
 According to CommSights , 46% of people have opted to use social media in the past to extend their complaints to a particular company.
“There is a vast amount of social media data available to help brands better understand their customers, but it has been underutilized in part because the methods used to monitor and analyze the data have been flawed,” Wendy W. Moe, University of Maryland associate dean of master’s programs, who created the algorithm with colleague Kunpeng Zhang, said in a statement. “Our research addresses some of the shortcomings and provides a tool for companies to more accurately gauge how consumers perceive their brands.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Algorithmic analysis Zhang’s and Moe’s method sifts through data from posts on a brand’s page, including how many users have expressed positive or negative sentiments, “liked” something, or shared something. It predicts how people will feel about that brand in the future, scaling to billions of pages of user-brand interaction data and millions of users.
The algorithm specifically looks at users’ interactions with brands to measure favorability — whether people view that brand in a positive or negative way. And it takes into account biases, inferring favorability and measuring social media users’ positivity based on their comments in the user-brand interaction data.
Zhang and Moe say that brands can apply the algorithm to a range of platforms, such as Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram, as long as the platforms provide user-brand interaction data and allow users to comment, share, and like content. The algorithm importantly doesn’t use private information, like user demographics, relying instead on user-brand publicly available interaction data.
“A brand needs to monitor the health of their brand dynamically,” Zhang said in a statement. “Then they can change marketing strategy to impact their brand favorability or better respond to competitors. They can better see their current location in the market in terms of their brand favorability. That can guide a brand to change marketing [practices].” Zhang’s and Moe’s research is detailed in the paper “Measuring Brand Favorability Using Large-Scale Social Media Data,” which will be published in the forthcoming issue of the journal Information Systems Research.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
