Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google wants you to make ‘smart choices’ when it comes to food Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google today announced the addition of nutrition information for more than 1,000 fruits, vegetables, meats, and meals to its search results.
Hey, how many calories are there in that cup of popcorn? Google will tell you: “It’s 31 calories per cup.” Google today announced the addition of nutrition information for more than 1,000 fruits, vegetables, meats, and meals to its search results.
The nutrition information will also be available through voice search on both web and mobile.
“From the basics of potatoes and carrots to more complex dishes like burritos and chow mein, you can simply ask, ‘How much protein is in a banana?’ or ‘How many calories are in an avocado?’ and get your answer right away,” blogged Ilya Mezheritsky, product manager at Google.
The feature launched today in English, and is expected to roll out in United States over the next 10 days.
It is powered by Google’s Knowledge Graph, which pulls together all the related information – even different names at times – from across the web.
“For example, when you ask for ‘summer squash carbs’, we include ‘zucchini’ as a relevant food in the dropdown, because it is a type of summer squash,” read Google’s Search blog.
The search giant plans to add more features, foods, and languages, over time.
Image Credit: epSos.de /Flickr VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
