Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Otter.ai automatically joins and transcribes calendared Zoom meetings Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
AI-powered transcription company Otter.ai has announced a new integration that automatically joins, records, and transcribes scheduled Zoom meetings.
The Los Altos, California-based company, which raised a fresh $50 million tranche of funding just a few months ago, has offered integrations with Zoom for a while ( as well as with Google Meet). However, this latest tie-up goes further by carrying out all the manual steps involved in joining a meeting, transcribing it, and sharing notes with all users.
Assist Otter Assistant, as the new feature is called, connects with a user’s Google or Outlook calendar (once permissions have been granted) to see when a Zoom meeting is due to start. It then joins the call and starts recording on schedule, with no manual actions required.
For transparency, Otter Assistant shows up on the call as a participant. And each other participant in the call can view the live meeting notes, with support for making notes and highlighting text visible to everyone.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Above: Otter Assistant One key differentiator from the existing Zoom integration is that this now works with all Zoom calls, regardless of whether the user is the official host.
This launch also serves as a major boost to Zoom’s burgeoning app ecosystem , something the company has been keen to encourage to make its platform more useful and, ultimately, stickier.
Zoom itself has also been on something of a feature launch spree of late, having recently brought Alexa for Business to Zoom conference room calls and rolled out a new “immersive view” to position remote participants in the same virtual room.
The Otter Assistant is available as part of Otter.ai’s business plan , which costs $20 per user per month.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
