Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Zoom boosts its app ecosystem with $100M venture fund Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Zoom has announced a new $100 million venture fund designed to “stimulate growth” of its burgeoning ecosystem of third-party app integrations.
The announcement comes after a whirlwind 12 months for the video-communications platform company. Zoom has more than doubled in value over the past year, with businesses forced to embrace cloud-based tools as they rapidly transitioned to remote work.
The Salesforce playbook Back in October, Zoom launched its new Zoom Apps platform for third-party developers to integrate their apps into Zoom. This is designed to make it easier for teams to collaborate and access data while on video calls — integrations include everything from whiteboarding to cloud storage services. And this is essentially what the new $100 million fund will support. Zoom said it will invest between $250,000 and $2.5 million in growth-stage companies looking to develop tools and products that “will become core to how Zoom customers meet, communicate, and collaborate,” according to a statement.
In many ways, Zoom is following the Salesforce playbook in terms of how it’s pushing to develop a vibrant ecosystem built around its core product — first through embracing third-party integrations and then through investing in them directly. Zoom has invested in startups before — in 2019 it backed hardware startup Neat — but this latest fund goes some way toward establishing Zoom as a more formal investor.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! To qualify for funding, companies must have a market-ready product with evidence of at least some early traction. Perhaps more importantly, their product must be focused on helping improve the Zoom experience in some way, either through Zoom Apps, SDKs, APIs, or even hardware products.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
