Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Automattic’s WordPress VIP acquires Parse.ly to bring web content analytics to the enterprise Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn WordPress.com from Automattic Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
WordPress VIP (WPVIP) , Automattic’s enterprise-focused content management platform, has acquired Parse.ly , an engagement analytics platform aimed at online publishers. Terms of the deal were not disclosed.
While Automattic is perhaps better known as the parent company of WordPress.com, it also operates a host of third-party services, including WPVIP, which is a managed hosting service for enterprises and high-traffic websites. WPVIP — an official Automattic subsidiary, with some 150 employees and its own leadership and development teams — allows companies such as Salesforce, Microsoft, Slack, Spotify, and Facebook to access a dedicated team of WordPress experts alongside a suite of enterprise-grade plugins, integrations, and APIs.
After a prolonged beta period, Parse.ly launched its flagship “Dash” product in 2012 to help online publishers gain insights into what people are reading on their site and how they got there. A few years later, the company introduced a whole new platform that factored in all the ways publishers seek revenue beyond advertising, such as paywalls, events, research reports, ecommerce, and more. And in 2018, it launched Currents , which uses AI to measure real-time audience attention. The New York-based company had raised around $13 million in outside funding.
Above: Parse.ly dashboard WPVIP said it will integrate Parse.ly’s real-time content analytics and content recommendation smarts into its own analytics toolset, benefiting WPVIP’s existing customer base, while Parse.ly’s customers will gain immediate access to WPVIP. All in all, this acquisition will make both WPVIP and Parse.ly much stickier propositions, with the new combined unit spearheaded by existing WordPress VIP CEO Nick Gernert.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The acquisition comes 16 months after Automattic raised $300 million from Salesforce , an investment that highlighted Automattic’s intentions for the enterprise sphere. Not long before that, Automattic acquired ZBS CRM , a customer relationship management plugin for WordPress. Automattic also operates an ecommerce plugin called WooCommerce, which it acquired in 2015.
 It’s clear Automatic has been investing in its enterprise aspirations for a while now, and Parse.ly fits neatly into those plans.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
