Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Entrepreneur Corner Roundup: The state of the VC world and tech’s human problem Chris Morris Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Here’s the latest from VentureBeat’s Entrepreneur Corner: 5 ways VC firms can stop shooting themselves in the foot – Venture Capital firms drill the need to create basic credibility into the companies they invest in – but often fail to take their own advice. Laura Grimmer, CEO of Articulate Communications (which works with VC firms), lists five things they could do to build a better pipeline of prospective portfolio companies.
After VC cash? Show ‘em what you’ve learned – When the time came for Cafepress to seek its second round of funding, the company went about it in a slightly different way. Serial entrepreneur Steve Blank, a longtime board member of the company, offers a look at how they did it – and what the reaction was from investors.
Boston Millennia’s Callow on the state of the VC industry – Dana Callow has been watching the Venture Capital business morph and change for years. In this Q&A, the managing partner of Boston Millennia Partners discusses the VC shakeout, fields that have him excited and what entrepreneurs seeking capital should be doing.
Finding a buyer for your start-up – It’s hard enough to walk away from the business you built from scratch. It’s even harder to find an ideal buyer. John Ovrom founder and CEO of Exit and Answers, examines the two most common ways people begin the process when they decide to sell.
Tech mishaps and the human problem – Engineers might cringe when they hear it, but every tech problem is tied to a human problem. Serial entrepreneur Eric Ries, in this lecture given at Stanford University, demonstrates how to narrow things down and learn the root cause.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
