Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Osso VR raises $27M to train surgeons via simulations Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Trainees can operate on patients in virtual reality with Osso VR.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Osso VR has raised $27 million to train doctors and other medical professionals using virtual reality surgery simulations.
The San Francisco-based Osso VR said its numerous hospitals have validated its virtual reality surgical training and assessment platform as a training tool for surgeons.
GSR Ventures led the second institutional round of funding, with participation from SignalFire, Kaiser Permanente Ventures, OCA Ventures, Scrum Ventures, Leslie Ventures, and Anorak Ventures.
Osso VR’s surgical training technology provides on-demand, educational experiences that are effective, repeatable, and measurable to help surgeons reach proficiency with emerging surgical techniques and technologies, the company said.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Pandemic growth Above: Surgeons use hand controllers in simulated surgery in VR.
Osso VR grew rapidly during 2020 to meet the increased demand in virtual training thanks to the pandemic. The company says it works with industry leaders like Johnson & Johnson, Stryker, and Smith & Nephew.
As part of the recent growth, the company recently expanded into additional specialties, such as orthopedics, endoscopy, and interventional procedures. Osso VR has more than 120 modules and 10 specialties in its surgical training library.
Sunny Kumar, a partner at GSR Ventures, said in a statement that Osso VR is poised to transform how surgeons are trained on new devices and surgical procedures. He said the Osso platform’s level of immersion provides an experience that mirrors the operating room in a manner more efficient, accessible, and effective than any surgical training platform that’s come before.
Osso VR’s platform has high visual fidelity to ensure that every aspect of surgery, from anatomical detail to the OR environment, enhances the training experience. Osso VR employs the world’s largest medical illustration team and alums from Industrial Light & Magic, Electronic Arts, Microsoft, and Apple.
Lots of training Above: A surgical team in Osso VR.
With nearly 30,000 training sessions completed on the platform, working out to an average of 22,000 minutes of training a month, Osso claims its VR’s platform is proven to significantly affect surgical performance. In two recent randomized peer-reviewed studies, surgeons training with Osso VR showed anywhere from a 230% to a 306% improvement in overall surgical performance compared to traditional training.
Osso VR is available in more than 20 countries, and all top five orthopedic medical device companies are using Osso VR as their VR training partner. The platform is available in multiple languages including English, Japanese, Spanish, German, and French. More than 20 global hospital residency programs use it, including Brown University, Hospital for Special Surgery, Johns Hopkins University, and Rush University.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
