Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Webinar The fintech app revolution: Building apps to feed a new financial generation (webinar) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn We’re now in the midst of a global fintech transformation. The latest trends in consumer experiences for devices such as mobile, wearables, and other online advancements are steadily increasing consumer expectations for fintech innovations. In parallel, a generational shift in users is unfolding and meeting their needs may be even more complicated than ever — yet, this will open up more and more opportunities to engage in new ways.
From smart watches to mobile devices, new technologies offer quicker and easier ways to check account balances or provide alerts and loyalty rewards. Most significantly, perhaps, the ability to make payments via wearable devices using mobile wallets such as Apple Pay means financial institutions can play a greater role in financial management and purchasing decisions.
This means that fintech startups are poised to be powerful contributors to the growth of innovation in the banking sector. In fact, many believe that the non-bank services are destined to take over where financial institutions have lost ground.
This convergence of major trends — cloud computing, open software, generational shifts, and big data/analytics — means that it is easier than ever for small, innovative technology startups to quickly turn their ideas into marketable products across multiple channels.
Don’t miss out! Register here for free.
For this webinar, we’re calling on all innovative fintech startups to join us to get essential insights on what it will take to succeed and thrive in this era of disruption. Our panelists include successful disruptors who have lived through the transformation and understand the needs of all stakeholders: the consumers driving the revolution, the banks who hold the critical consumer data, and the fintech startup community headstrong on change.
What you’ll learn: What’s driving change in fintech How to prepare for the coming wave of new technology How to prepare for Generation Z Why collaboration is the path forward to create killer fintech applications Speakers: Josh Gordon-Blake , SVP of Global Partnerships at Pangea Dr. Richard M. Smith , Founder and CEO of TradeStops Elizabeth Gunderson , Senior Manager of Customer Success at Yodlee Interactive This webinar is sponsored by Yodlee.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
