Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Metroid: Dread brings the franchise to Switch Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Nintendo announced a new 2D Metroid game today during its E3 Direct presentation.
 It’s called Metroid: Dread, and it’s coming out October 8.
The trailers also called the title Metroid 5, making it clear that this is a successor to Metroid: Fusion.
We last saw Metroid on the 3DS in 2017 with Metroid: Samus Returns, itself a remake of 1991’s Metroid II: The Return of Samus for the Game Boy. This will be the first entry in the series created for the Switch.
Nintendo also noted that development on Metroid Prime 4 is continuing, although it did share any new details.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Metroid: Dread has been the rumored name for a new 2D Metroid game since the Nintendo DS era. Nintendo confirmed in a deep-dive video after the Direct that the project had two failed attempts at development, but now it is finally real. Mercury Stream, the studio behind Samus Returns, is developing Dread.
The free-aim and melee counter abilities are back from Samus Returns, and you can also do a new slide move.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
