Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Gmail’s getting an AI-powered Smart Compose feature for faster emailing Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Gmail: Smart Compose Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google has announced a new Smart Compose feature is coming to Gmail.
The reveal was made today by Google CEO Sundar Pichai at Google’s annual I/O developer conference, held May 8-10 this year in Mountain View, California.
In a nutshell, Smart Compose taps the wonders of artificial intelligence (AI) to help users formulate drafts, from the beginning to the end. It’s basically like real-time auto-complete for entire emails, with Gmail serving up suggestions as you type.
Above: Smart Compose Anyone already accustomed to predictive keyboards will be familiar with the basic concept behind Smart Compose. It uses historical grammar and typing patterns to guess what it thinks you want to say, and then if you like the suggestion, just hit the tab key to enact it.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Additionally, Smart Compose will also tap contextual cues to make some suggestions. If you’re writing the email on a Friday, for example, it may suggest “Have a nice weekend” as a closing pleasantry.
This new feature will be landing in the consumer version of Gmail “in the coming weeks,” with support for G Suite users arriving later this year.
The news comes just a few weeks after Google unveiled the all-new Gmail, featuring confidential mode, nudges, snooze, and a bunch more notable upgrades. It seems that Smart Compose fits into that upcoming update, meaning that you have to manually opt in by activating the “Try the new Gmail” option in settings and then enabling “experimental access.” While this won’t be available by default at first, Google previously revealed that it would be pushing all these new Gmail upgrades more proactively in the coming months.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
