Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Baidu details its adversarial toolbox for testing robustness of AI models Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Baidu Silicon Valley AI Lab in Sunnyvale, California.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
No matter the claimed robustness of AI and machine learning systems in production, none are immune to adversarial attacks, or techniques that attempt to fool algorithms through malicious input. It’s been shown that generating even small perturbations on images can fool the best of classifiers with high probability. And that’s problematic considering the wide proliferation of the “AI as a service” business model, where companies like Amazon, Google, Microsoft, Clarifai, and others have made systems that might be vulnerable to attack available to end users.
Researchers at tech giant Baidu propose a partial solution in a recent paper published on Arxiv.org: Advbox.
 They describe it as an open source toolbox for generating adversarial examples, and they say it’s able to fool models in frameworks like Facebook’s PyTorch and Caffe2, MxNet, Keras, Google’s TensorFlow, and Baidu’s own PaddlePaddle.
While the Advbox itself isn’t new — the initial release was over a year ago — the paper dives into revealing technical detail.
AdvBox is based on Python, and it implements several common attacks that perform searches for adversarial samples. Each attack method uses a distance measure to quantify the size of adversarial perturbation, while a sub-model — Perceptron, which supports image classification and object detection models as well as cloud APIs — evaluates the robustness of a model to noise, blurring, brightness adjustments, rotations, and more.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! AdvBox ships with tools for testing detection models susceptible to so-called adversarial t-shirts or facial recognition attacks. Plus, it offers access to Baidu’s cloud-hosted deepfakes detection service via an included Python script.
“Small and often imperceptible perturbations to [input] are sufficient to fool the most powerful [AI],” wrote the coauthors. “Compared to previous work, our platform supports black box attacks … as well as more attack scenarios.” Baidu isn’t the only company publishing resources designed to help data scientists defend from adversarial attacks. Last year, IBM and MIT released a metric for estimating the robustness of machine learning and AI algorithms called Cross Lipschitz Extreme Value for Network Robustness, or CLEVER for short. And in April, IBM announced a developer kit called the Adversarial Robustness Toolbox, which includes code for measuring model vulnerability and suggests methods for protecting against runtime manipulation. Separately, researchers at the University of Tübingen in Germany created Foolbox, a Python library for generating over 20 different attacks against TensorFlow, Keras, and other frameworks.
But much work remains to be done. According to Jamal Atif, a professor at the Université Paris-Dauphine, the most effective defense strategy in the image classification domain — augmenting a group of photos with examples of adversarial images — at best has gotten accuracy back up to only 45%. “This is state of the art,” he said during an address in Paris at the annual France is AI conference hosted by France Digitale. “We just do not have a powerful defense strategy.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
