Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Why a Cedars-Sinai hospital and BP use facial recognition Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
( Reuters ) — Deployments of facial recognition from Israeli startup AnyVision show how the surveillance software has gained adoption across the United States even as regulatory and ethical debates about it rage on.
The technology finds certain faces in photos or videos, with banks representing one sector that has taken interest in systems from AnyVision or its many competitors to improve security and service.
Organizations in other industries are chasing similar goals. Los Angeles hospital Cedars-Sinai and oil giant BP are among several previously unreported users of AnyVision.
Cedars-Sinai’s main hospital uses AnyVision facial recognition to give staff a heads-up about individuals known for committing violence or drug fraud or using different names at the emergency room, three sources said.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Cedars said it “does not publicly discuss our security programs” and could not confirm the information.
Meanwhile, BP has used facial recognition for at least two years at its Houston campus to help security staff detect people on a watchlist because they had previously trespassed or issued threats, two sources said.
BP declined to comment.
AnyVision declined to discuss specific clients or deals.
Gaining additional clients may be difficult for AnyVision amid mounting opposition to facial recognition from civil liberties advocates.
Critics say the technology compromises privacy, targets marginalized groups , and normalizes intrusive surveillance. Last week, 25 social justice groups, including Demand Progress and Greenpeace USA, called on governments to ban corporate use of facial recognition in an open letter.
AnyVision CEO Avi Golan, a former SoftBank Vision Fund operating partner who joined the startup in November, sees a bright future. He told Reuters that AnyVision has worked with companies across retail, banking, gaming, sports, and energy on uses that should not be banned because they stop crime and boost safety.
“I am a bold advocate for regulation of facial recognition.
 There’s a potential for abuse of this technology both in terms of bias and privacy,” he said. “[But] blanket bans are irresponsible.” The startup has faced challenges in the past year. AnyVision laid off half of its staff, with deep cuts to research and sales, according to people who have worked for the company, as well as customers and partners, all speaking on the condition of anonymity.
The slashing followed the onset of COVID-19 shrinking clients’ budgets, sources said, with investor Microsoft in March 2020 saying it would divest its stake over ethical concerns.
AnyVision announced raising an additional $43 million last September.
Detecting threats Macy’s installed AnyVision in 2019 to alert security when known shoplifters entered its store in New York’s Herald Square, five sources said. The deployment expanded to around 15 more New York stores, three sources said, and if not for the pandemic would have reached an additional 15 stores, including on the West Coast.
Macy’s told Reuters it uses facial recognition “in a small subset of stores with high incidences of organized retail theft and repeat offenders.” Menards, a U.S. home improvement chain, has used AnyVision facial recognition to identify known thieves, three sources said. Its system has also alerted staff to the arrival of design center clients and reidentified them on future visits to improve service, a source said.
Menards said its current face mask policy has rendered “any use of facial recognition technology pointless.” In an online video, and without naming Menards, AnyVision has touted its results, and two sources said the companies struck a deal for 290 stores. In 2019, Menards apprehended 54% more potential threats and recovered over $5 million, according to the video.
The U.S. financial services unit of automaker Mercedes-Benz said it has used AnyVision at its Fort Worth, Texas offices since 2019 to authenticate about 900 people entering and exiting daily before the pandemic, adding a layer of security on top of building access cards.
Such employee-access applications are a common early use of AnyVision, including at Houston Texans’ and Golden State Warriors’ facilities, sources said.
The sports teams declined to comment.
Entertainment deals Several deals have failed to materialize, however. Among organizations that considered AnyVision early last year were Amazon’s grocery chain Whole Foods to monitor workers at stores, Comcast to enable ticketless experiences at Universal theme parks, and baseball’s Dodger Stadium for suite access, sources said.
Talks with airports in the Dallas and San Francisco areas referenced in public records have not led to contracts either.
Universal Parks, the Los Angeles Dodgers, and the airports all declined to comment on their interest. And Whole Foods did not respond to a request for comment.
Government requirements for surveillance at casinos have made the gaming industry a big purchaser of facial recognition. Las Vegas Sands, for instance, is using AnyVision, three sources said. Sands declined to comment.
MGM Resorts International and Cherokee Nation Entertainment also use AnyVision, representatives of the casino operators said last month in an online presentation seen by Reuters.
Ted Whiting of MGM said the software, deployed in 2017 and used at 11 properties, including the Aria in Las Vegas, has detected vendors not wearing masks and helped catch patrons accused of violence.
MGM said its “surveillance system is designed to adhere to regulatory requirements and support ongoing efforts to keep guests and employees safe.” Cherokee’s Joshua Anderson said in addition to security uses, AnyVision has accelerated coronavirus contact tracing as the Oklahoma company rolls out the technology across 10 properties.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
