Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Amazon Now Considers Itself an AI Company | WIRED BizCon About Released on 06/07/2017 Do you think of Amazon as an Artificial Intelligence Company now? Oh, for sure.
I, you know, I-- Everything we do, and I say this to my teams all the time, If you're not thinking about machine learning in every aspect of what you're building on behalf of customers, we're probably making a mistake.
It is-- we're in a renaissance of computer science, and the things that we only thought were a glimmer of possibility just four or five years ago, now seem totally within reach.
You often don't get to live in times like this and participate in this kind of renaissance.
If any of you are in technology and not paying attention to this, then I think you should rethink it.
And we use it all around the company, from obvious things to not so obvious.
We grade strawberries at Amazon for our grocery business, because it's better than humans.
Our drones use machine learning.
Every layer of Alexa that you see, from the weight word to the voice she speaks, uses deep learning and machine learning throughout to make sure it's a delightful experience for customers.
[Nicholas] What do you do to strawberries again? We grade them.
So we run them down a camera looks at them and decides if they're a good strawberry or a bad strawberry.
A little Willy Wonka.
Now Amazon's Alexa Can Show You Things Taking on Amazon, Google & Silicon Valley: EU Competition Chief Talks Tech with WIRED's Nicholas Thompson Why drones will be much safer than you think Machine Learning: Living in the Age of AI LG's Hub Bots Are Seriously Cute AI Assistants How to Control What Alexa and Google Assistant Do With Your Voice Data Game of Clouds: Dropbox Declares Independence From Amazon Will AI Enhance or Hack Humanity? - Fei-Fei Li & Yuval Noah Harari in Conversation with Nicholas Thompson A Look at Amazon's Kindle Paperwhite Computer Scientist Explains Machine Learning in 5 Levels of Difficulty Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
