Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google + Facebook = 70 percent of all mobile ad revenues worldwide Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The requisite Google couch.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
By itself, Google accounts for 56 percent of all global mobile ad revenues. Social giant Facebook takes a much smaller chunk with 13 percent. But together, they own the lion’s share of mobile ad dollars.
Advertisers spent $8.8 billion hawking their wares via mobile ads last year, according to new numbers from eMarketer.
Of that, Google raked in $4.61 billion — triple what it made in 2011. And eMarketer estimates that Google will almost double mobile revenues in 2013 to a staggering $8.85 billion. While Facebook’s numbers are much smaller, the company is also much younger and much newer to the mobile ad marketplace. As of just two years ago, Facebook had no mobile ad revenue at all.
Zilch. Nada.
Now Facebook is projected to bring in just over $2 billion in mobile ads, up a massive 333 percent from the $470 million it earned in 2012. In comparison, fellow monetization newcomer Twitter brought in $140 million in 2012 and is projected to double that to $310 million in 2013.
Whichever way you slice, the mobile ad pie is growing fast, and relatively new companies — even Google is just 15-years-old — are taking bigger and bigger swaths.
In terms of total digital ad spend, Google is also the unquestioned leader.
One out of every three dollars spent on digital ads is spent with Google. The search-plus-mobile-plus-designer-eyewear-plus-advertising giant (plus a little bit of everything else) took home $32.73 billion in digital ad revenues in 2012. That’s in a market with a total size of $104 billion.
In 2013, eMarketer estimates that Google will grow dollars and share to $39 billion and 33 percent.
Facebook will also grow by about 20 percent from about $4.3 billion in total digital ad revenue in 2012 to almost $6 billion, taking in 5 percent of the overall digital pie. Yahoo, Microsoft, Barry Dillers InterActiveCorp, AOL, Amazon, Pandora, Twitter, and LinkedIn will fill out the top 10.
Interestingly, however, when you look at the fastest growers, the leader board reverses.
Twitter, which was the fastest-growing in 2012, will also grow the most in 2013, eMarketer says, by just over 100 percent each year. Internet radio leader Pandora and professional networking giant LinkedIn will both grow at or about 50 percent while Google will only grow by 18.6 percent.
Naturally, that’s due to the law of large numbers: It’s hard to keep doubling when you get to revenues that start with a capital B.
But it’s also a sign that the young companies are strong and growing.
Image credit: John Koetsier VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
