Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages OneStream: Data analysis, AI tools usage increased in 2021 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
CFOs and other finance executives are optimistic that economic recovery is on the horizon: three-quarters (73 percent) expect that they will return to normal growth by the end of 2021, according to the latest Enterprise Financial Decision-Making Report from OneStream , a provider of corporate performance management solutions for mid-sized and large enterprises. Companies have significantly increased their data analysis tool investments and usage over the past year, the report found.
Above: Over half of companies are using data analysis tools more than before the pandemic.
OneStream’s study targeted finance leaders across North America and identified the factors driving their priorities, budgets and technology adoption plans for 2021. The survey found that the COVID-19 pandemic created a heightened need for agile forecasting, predictive planning and digital transformation.
 The ability to quickly reforecast budgets and shift workflows has become essential.
The 2021 report found that finance executives have significantly increased their data analysis tool investments and usage. Companies commonly invested in artificial intelligence (59 percent) and increased their use of cloud-based planning and reporting solutions (65 percent). Most companies already use (69 percent) or plan to use (18 percent) low-code development platforms, which enable business users and citizen developers to take on new roles while circumventing complicated coding requirements. For return-to-office budgets, data privacy tools are the most common priority (18%), followed by hybrid cloud technologies.
Compare the results with OneStream’s 2020 Enterprise Financial Decision-Making Report where less than half (46 percent) of the finance executives reported using cloud-based solutions regularly, while less than a quarter used machine learning (21 percent) and artificial intelligence (20 percent) solutions.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Many finance executives are evaluating their workforce, technology and supply chain needs for a post-pandemic reality. However, the political and social landscape have also heavily impacted investment decisions, leading executives to prioritize sustainability and diversity initiatives as well.
The commissioned study, conducted by Hanover Research in April of 2021, sourced insights from 340 finance decision makers in the United States, Canada and Mexico. All individuals hold management position (C-level executive (CFO), VP, Director, Controller) in finance. Respondents work at companies across numerous industries and varying revenues, with 24 percent employed by companies with over $1 billion in annual revenue.
Read the full OneStream report Enterprise Financial Decision-Making Report 2021 — North America.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
