Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Zendesk acquires cloud business intelligence startup BIME Analytics for $45M Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Rachel Delacour, chief executive and cofounder of BIME Analytics Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Publicly traded customer service software company Zendesk today announced that it has acquired We Are Cloud, the parent company of BIME Analytics , a startup with a cloud-based business intelligence (BI) tool.
Zendesk paid $45 million in the deal, according to a press release.
“BIME Analytics will become the core technology powering Zendesk’s customer data platform, enabling Zendesk to further integrate data analytics capabilities across its products,” Zendesk said in the release.
The cloud BI space has been heating up quite a bit lately. Amazon Web Services announced its QuickSight tool last week. Salesforce came out with the Analytics Cloud tool last year. The latter is probably more important here, because Zendesk competes with Salesforce in the service desk software market. Now Zendesk will have BI capability, just like Salesforce.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Meanwhile, other privately held cloud BI providers, like Birst and Domo, have taken on funding rounds in the past several months.
Zendesk will provide more information on the deal on its November 3 earnings call, according to the release.
BIME Analytics started in 2009 and was based in Montpellier, France. Alven Capital invested $4 million in the startup in 2013. BIME Analytics customers included Cars.com, H&R Block, Lenovo, McAfee, Pizza Hut, Shell, and Sodexo.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
