Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Nintendo finally adds online play to a huge Switch hit Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Super Mario Party is a massive hit for Nintendo Switch.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Nintendo is finally updating Super Mario Party with online play. This comes — well, not just in time for stay-at-home orders due to the pandemic (which started more than a year ago). But it’s a welcome addition regardless as many people countries await the vaccine. Social distancing is still an everyday reality, and online gaming can help people stay connected with friends and family.
Keep the party going! A free update to #SuperMarioParty adds online play to the board game mode, 70 minigames , and the 2 vs 2 Partner Party mode. Available now! Additional details: https://t.co/MdWIZ47w4i pic.twitter.com/U285o371hZ — Nintendo of America (@NintendoAmerica) April 27, 2021 This update was a long time coming, and you can read the patch notes here.
 Super Mario Party is one of the best-selling games on the current generation of consoles. It has sold 13.82 million copies worldwide as of the end of 2020, according to Nintendo.
 That puts it ahead of Splatoon 2, and it puts it on par with some of the biggest releases from Sony or Electronic Arts.
Of course, Super Mario Party sells to a different audience than something like Ghost of Tsushima, which has sold 6.5 million copies as of March. Ghost of Tsushima sells a lot of copies quickly to a hardcore audience that cannot wait to play it. That’s opposed to Super Mario Party, which sells steadily throughout the generation to new families picking up a Switch for the first time.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! That family audience is something that Nintendo dominates, but it is also guilty of taking families for granted. Super Mario Party launched 2.5 years ago, but despite its success, Nintendo never released an update. At least, not until now.
With this patch, Nintendo could begin building loyalty even among casual players. Because eventually, the pandemic will end, and Nintendo should do more to ensure families don’t forget about the Switch when other activities return.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
