Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages EU’s plan to woo chip manufacturers won’t work, Taiwan says Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
( Reuters ) — Taiwan Economy Minister Wang Mei-hua on Wednesday played down the prospect of Taiwan tech firms making advanced semiconductors in the European Union, noting industry leader TSMC has insisted it will focus its most advanced technology on the island.
Wang’s comments come amid overtures from the EU to persuade a global chipmaker to build a major fabrication plant on EU territory that would help the European Commission achieve a strategic goal of securing the most advanced chip production technology over the next decade.
Speaking to reporters, Wang pointed to previous comments by TSMC — Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company — on its production base.
“TSMC has said repeatedly that the most advanced technology will definitely be (produced) mainly in Taiwan,” she said. “As for how Taiwan and the EU can cooperate, companies have their arrangements and considerations, and it can be further discussed.” The European Commissioner responsible for the EU’s internal market, Thierry Breton, is scheduled to hold discussions with the chief executive of U.S.-based Intel and the president of TSMC’s Europe division, Maria Marced, on Friday.
Sources in Brussels say Breton is keener to reel in TSMC, which is widely regarded as the undisputed industry leader and has a better command of the most advanced manufacturing processes.
TSMC did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Breton’s push for technology ‘sovereignty’ for the EU comes as a surge in demand for everything from consumer electronics to cars has disrupted global supply chains and exposed the continent’s reliance on chips made in Asia.
Wang added that she had had no direct talks with the EU on the subject “over the last week or two.” “But in our talks with the EU, industrial cooperation has always been an important topic. It’s not just limited to semiconductors, it’s on broader industrial cooperation.” TSMC has said it intends to keep the focus of its production in Taiwan, though it also has major plants in China and announced plans last year to build its own $12 billion factory in the U.S. state of Arizona.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
