Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google announces $10 billion ‘digitization fund’ for India Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Alphabet CEO and Google CEO Sundar Pichai Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
( Reuters ) — Alphabet’s Google today said it will spend around $10 billion in India over the next five to seven years through equity investments and tie-ups, marking its biggest commitment to a key growth market.
The investments will be done through a “digitization fund,” highlighting Google’s focus on the rapid pace of growth of apps and software platforms in India, one of the world’s biggest internet services markets.
“We’ll do this through a mix of equity investments; partnerships; and operational, infrastructure, and ecosystem investments,” Alphabet CEO Sundar Pichai said on a webcast during the annual “Google for India” event.
“This is a reflection of our confidence in the future of India and its digital economy.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Google has already made some direct and indirect investments in Indian startups, such as local delivery app Dunzo.
Beyond investments via the fund, Google would also focus on areas like artificial intelligence and education in India, Pichai told Reuters in an interview.
Indian-born Pichai joined Google in 2004 and is widely credited with making the Chrome browser. He replaced company cofounder Larry Page as CEO of parent Alphabet last year.
“Sundar Pichai, who is heading Google, is a very powerful symbol of the creative potential of India’s human resource,” India’s technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said at the event.
The U.S. tech group, whose Android mobile operating system powers the bulk of India’s roughly 500 million smartphones, will continue to work with manufacturers to build low-cost devices so that more and more people can access the internet, another Google executive said.
( Reporting by Sankalp Phartiyal, additional reporting by Sachin Ravikumar, editing by Jason Neely and Jane Merriman.
) VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
