Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages HP to acquire enterprise player Autonomy for $10.3B (updated) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
HP will buy UK-based enterprise software company Autonomy for $10.3 billion, the company announced during today’s quarterly earnings call.
Autonomy shareholders will receive $42.11 a share, which is a 64 percent premium over Autonomy’s closing share price yesterday. If the deal is approved by regulators, HP will be making a strong push into enterprise software.
“HP wants to make a dramatic entry into information management,” Whit Andrews, Gartner vice president and analyst, told VentureBeat. “This would be a very visible entry into the enterprise market with a focus on unstructured information.” HP also today confirmed it will explore spinning off its huge personal computing business.
 Additionally, HP said it would kill off its webOS device unit , specifically the HP TouchPad tablet that has failed to sell many units.
The $10.3 billion Autonomy acquisition, if it goes through, would be one of the largest deals in HP’s history. In the past year, HP bought 3PAR for $2.35 billion as well as ArcSight for $1.5 billion.
“HP has been sitting on the sidelines partnering with software companies rather than being an enterprise software company for several years now,” Melissa Webster, IDC vice president of content and digital media technologies told VentureBeat. “With Autonomy, HP can make a strong bid with eDiscovery, archival software, and governance, risk, and compliance solutions.” The bid to buy Autonomy and to spin off its PC business would mean HP wants to be a major software and business solutions player. Bloomberg’s report said HP CEO Leo Apotheker has placed the company’s emphasis on software and services.
“HP has been struggling for years with how to shift into software,” Andrews said. “Buying Autonomy would give them a new direction for software with strong clients, strong software, and a strong position in the market.” HP’s stock price fluctuated wildly on the news , with its share price going up on a day when tech stocks were hit hard. But the price quickly retreated back sharply into the negative as traders digested the news, and the share price closed down 5.8 percent. In after hours trading, HP lost another 5 percent and it’s share price will likely continue to fluctuate.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
