Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages AI cybersecurity startup Darktrace raises $75 million, now valued at $825 million Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Darktrace , a cybersecurity platform that detects threats in real time using machine learning that adapts and learns over time, has raised $75 million in a series D round of funding led by Insight Venture Partners, with participation from Summit Partners, KKR, and TenEleven Ventures.
The latest raise comes exactly a year after the U.K. outfit announced a $64 million funding round, which included participation from Japanese telecom giant Softbank. Darktrace has raised $180 million in total since its inception, and the company now claims a post-funding valuation of $825 million.
Founded in 2013 by mathematicians from the University of Cambridge, England, Darktrace touts its “enterprise immune system,” which sits on a company’s network to create “unique behavioral models for every user and device.” This in turn enables the platform to leverage artificial intelligence (AI) to identify patterns, spot subtle changes, and thwart cyberattacks before they happen.
Cyber shortage The global cybersecurity workforce is expected to be short 1.8 million people by 2022, according to some reports , so automation and AI could prove pivotal in helping protect companies — especially when a growing number of attacks are themselves automated.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Indeed, we will likely see more “machine versus machine” battles in the online security realm, which is why AI-infused cybersecurity technology is ripe for investment. Just last month, Microsoft confirmed it was snapping up Hexadite to bring AI to Windows 10 enterprise security. Other notable companies operating in the space include Cylance, which raised $100 million last year.
Now with headquarters in both Cambridge (U.K.) and San Francisco, Darktrace claims it has 3,000 customers and says over the past year its workforce has doubled to 500 employees working across 24 global offices.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
