Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon launches its first African AWS datacenters as demand for cloud services surges Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Amazon has officially opened its first datacenters in Africa, with its Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud division launching three new availability zones in Cape Town , South Africa.
While Amazon first announced this new cloud region back in 2018, the timing of the launch is notable.
Demand for cloud services has surged due to the COVID-19 crisis, with businesses embracing bandwidth-intensive remote working options like video-conferencing and individuals on lockdown consuming more internet-based services.
AWS represents over 10% of Amazon’s revenue, having drawn in nearly $10 billion during the last quarter — roughly 4 times more than Google’s Cloud division, though that includes income from G Suite. Microsoft doesn’t break out its Azure earnings specifically, but the company was the first of the major public cloud providers to open datacenters in Africa, launching two regions in Johannesburg and Cape Town last March , while Google has yet to confirm plans for the region.
Having local infrastructure in Africa could alleviate a little stress from AWS datacenters elsewhere in the world, though the main benefit for Amazon is that it’s now in a better position to appeal to African companies. Putting datacenters closer to customers improves data-transfer speeds and reduces latency.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Today’s news comes after Alibaba revealed plans to invest $28 billion in cloud infrastructure over the next three years, following a surge in usage of its various services during the COVID-19 outbreak. Indeed, many users complained that the company’s workplace chat app, DingTalk, was regularly lagging due to the sudden increase in remote workers.
Amazon now offers cloud infrastructure in 73 zones in 23 regions , and with today’s news the only continent without an AWS region is Antarctica.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
