Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google Cloud’s Contact Center AI hits general availability Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Google Cloud is making Contact Center AI generally available for use today. The cloud service is built with conversational AI engine Dialogflow to automate interactions with customers in call centers.
Contact Center AI contains Virtual Agent to automatically respond to customer queries with voice or text or handoff the conversation to a person when a bot is unable to help a customer. Agent Assist uses natural language processing to augment customer service agent interactions with customers when a bot is unable to help a customer.
The news comes today as Google pushed its rich communication services ( RCS ) to Android Messages users in the United States , and days after Google’s experimental unit Area 120 CallJoy service for answering phone calls and customer questions for small businesses got an upgrade.
Each of the services harnesses Google’s strength in conversational AI to form its overarching and rather comprehensive voice strategy.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Google today announced that Cloud Run , a service for managing Knative for serverless apps like Kubernetes, has hit general availability. On Wednesday, Google launched the Network Intelligence Center , an AI-driven network management service.
The series of announcements preclude the start of the Google Cloud Next conference in London next week.
Google launched Contact Center AI at a Cloud Next conference in summer 2018.
In other Google conversational AI news, Google Search got the ability to help people learn how to pronounce words.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
