Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages CryptoKitties creator Dapper Labs raises $12 million for consumer-focused Flow blockchain Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
CryptoKitties creator Dapper Labs has raised $12 million in funding from NBA stars and others to build a consumer-focused Flow blockchain that supports digital collectibles. The company aims to enable users to own the digital items they collect with the assurance that the goods are genuine.
Dapper Labs will use the round to help scale the Flow blockchain to support previously announced collaborations with Dr. Seuss Enterprises , Warner Music, and UFC, among others. CEO Roham Gharegozlou said in an email to GamesBeat that Flow will be an easy-to-use blockchain that enables quick access for anyone looking to join the transparent and secure decentralized digital ledger technology.
Above: These Dr. Seuss digital collectibles are based on blockchain technology.
Dapper Labs also announced initial results from its first phase of beta testing for NBA Top Shot, its upcoming game developed for the Flow blockchain. NBA Top Shot has already generated over $1.2 million in revenue from the first 500 players while in closed beta. These players have spent thousands of hours opening packs, trading moments, and completing collections together.
Top Shot was designed in partnership with the NBA and NBPA. The experience captures the feeling of trading cards and sneakers, but it does so within a digital universe. New invitations to the beta are being released in waves; to apply, sign up here and then visit this Discord to request early access.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Investors in the round include Andre Iguodala of the Miami Heat basketball team, JaVale McGee (Los Angeles Lakers), Spencer Dinwiddie (Brooklyn Nets), Garrett Temple (Brooklyn Nets), and Aaron Gordon (Orlando Magic).
Other investors include Samsung, Andreessen Horowitz, Union Square Ventures, Coinbase Ventures, Distributed Global, Valor Capital Group, A.Capital, BlockTower Capital, Blockchange Ventures, EONXI Ventures, Reed Company, Greenfield One, North Island Ventures, Republic Labs, L1 Digital AG, and Pirata Capital.
Dapper Labs is based in Vancouver, Canada and has 85 employees. The company has raised $51.05 million to date.
Update, 7:52 a.m. Pacific: Dapper Labs says the amount raised was $12 million.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
