Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google launches Document AI suite of parsing and processing tools in preview Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google this morning launched the Document AI (DocAI) platform, a console for document processing hosted in Google Cloud, in preview. The company says it’s aimed at automating and validating documents by extracting data from documents and making them available to business apps and users.
Companies spend an average of $20 to file and store a single document, by some estimates , and only 18% of companies consider themselves paperless.
 An IDC report revealed that document-related challenges account for a 21.3% productivity loss, and U.S. companies waste a collective $8 billion annually managing paperwork.
Google’s DocAI platform ostensibly solves this by providing access to document parsers, tools, and solutions via an API. It supports the creation and customization of document processing workflows built with Google Cloud’s predefined taxonomy without the need to perform additional data mapping or training. DocAI offers general processors including a form parser, W9 parser, optical character recognition, document splitter, and custom workflows for domain-specific documents. These reside in a unified dashboard from where they can be tested by uploading a document directly in the console.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The parsers can classify information in documents like addresses, account numbers, and signatures as well as extract data like supplier names, invoice dates, and payment terms. Google says it’s working on additional capabilities for the DocAI platform to grow its core capabilities and support additional toolsets.
General parsers such as optical character recognition, the form parser, and the document splitter are available from the DocAI platform console. Access to specialized parsers like W9, 1040, W2, 1099-MISC, 1003, invoice, and receipts must be requested on a per-customer basis.
The launch of Google’s DocAI platform comes after the release of Lending DocAI, a Google Cloud product for the mortgage industry that ostensibly provides “industry-leading” accuracy for documents relevant to lending and processing. Google also recently unveiled PPP Lending AI , an effort to help lenders expedite the processing of applications for the since-exhausted U.S. Small Business Administration’s (SBA) Paycheck Protection Program, and Procurement DocAI, which automates procurement data capture by turning docs like invoices and receipts into structured data.
Lending DocAI and Procurement DocAI are now a part of the DocAI platform.
“We believe that any company that has to manually extract data from complex documents at scale can greatly benefit from Google Cloud AI,” Google product manager Lewis Liu and product marketing manager Yang Liang wrote in a blog post. “Transforming documents into structured data increases the speed of decision making for companies, unlocking measurable business value and helping develop better experiences for customers.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
