Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple Music will come to Amazon Echo devices in mid-December Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Apple has been working to expand the availability of its Apple Music service.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Instead of keeping streaming music service Apple Music exclusive to its own devices and apps, Apple has let Google Android and Facebook Messenger users sign on in previous years. Now the service is coming to Amazon’s Echo devices, Amazon announced today, with full Alexa integration.
Apple Music for Echo will provide access to over 50 million songs, enabling Alexa to stream everything from individual tracks and playlists to radio stations, even including Beats 1. Users will just have to enable the Apple Music skill in the Alexa app and link their accounts to make the new feature work.
“Music is one of the most popular features on Alexa — since we launched Alexa four years ago, customers are listening to more music in their homes than ever before,” said Amazon Devices SVP Dave Limp. “We’re thrilled to bring Apple Music — one of the most popular music services in the U.S. — to Echo customers this holiday.” With over 50 million subscribers, Apple Music is believed to have surpassed Spotify in U.S. installed base during the summer, but both services continue to grow in popularity. Regardless whether it’s currently number one or two in the country, however, Apple Music support is a win-win for large numbers of Apple and Amazon users.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Amazon’s frosty relationship with Apple has thawed somewhat in recent months, as the sometime rivals reached an agreement to bring new Apple devices back to Amazon’s retail storefront, pushing small, unauthorized vendors out of the store. While Amazon opted not to sell Apple products that compete directly with its own audio and video offerings, it is offering iPads, iPhones, and Macs, as well as accessories.
The exact date for the Echo Apple Music rollout isn’t clear, but Amazon says Apple Music will start to become available on Echo devices during “the week of December 17.” That’s just in time for the end of the 2018 holiday season and a good opportunity for Apple to keep some new iPhone and iPad users from switching to Amazon’s Music Unlimited service, which has become competitive on both price and music catalog size as it chases Apple Music subscribers.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
