Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Super Mario 3D All-Stars becomes a fast sales hit for Nintendo Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Super Mario 3D All-Stars.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
We can complain about its limited availability or half-hearted porting job all we want, but Super Mario 3D All-Stars has become a big sales success for Nintendo.
The compilation was the No. 2 best-selling game in the U.S. in September, according to The NPD Group. It is also already the No. 10 best-selling game of the year so far. Super Mario 3D All-Stars launched for Switch on September 18. It includes Super Mario 64, Super Mario Sunshine, and Super Mario Galaxy.
“Super Mario 3D All-Stars launch month physical dollar sales rank as the 6th biggest for a Nintendo-published title in U.S. history,” NPD video game industry analyst Mat Piscatella noted. “Super Mario 3D All-Stars trails only Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Animal Crossing: New Horizons, The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, and Pokémon Stadium in physical launch month dollar sales.” For whatever reason, 3D All-Stars will only be available for purchase until March 31. That forced scarcity could be what is driving up these launch sales numbers.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Or people could just be happy to have three classic 3D platformers on their Switch. Now that Nintendo knows these games can sell, maybe we’ll get Super Mario Galaxy 2 on Switch.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
