Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Productiv raises $8 million to help companies track SaaS app engagement Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Productiv's cloud dashboard surfaces organization-wide app metrics.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Enterprise software-as-a-service (SaaS) adoption has never been higher — companies use 16 SaaS apps on average and 73 percent say nearly all of their apps will be SaaS by 2020, driving the global industry to an estimated $185.8 billion in the next year. But coinciding with this climb is a decline in app usage transparency. A recent survey of IT leaders conducted by Numerify found that 45 percent don’t have a complete picture of key apps and business health services, with 38 percent admitting they couldn’t analyze IT data on the fly and 57 percent saying they lacked an overview of IT performance across projects and employees.
The market’s relative opaqueness motivated Jody Shapiro, formerly head of product management for Google Analytics, to investigate a metrics-driven solution. Unable to find one, he developed his own in Productiv, which emerged from stealth this week with $8 million in series A funding led by Accel partner and former CEO of RelateIQ (now SalesforceIQ) Steve Loughlin.
“CIOs at Fortune 1000 companies tell us that they want to drive new business value from their software investments. Many of those companies spend tens or hundreds of millions annually on SaaS alone,” Shapiro told VentureBeat via email. “Those CIOs tell us that application engagement insights give an unprecedented view into SaaS application usage, and it’s helping them understand how those employees collaborate and drive their teams’ productivity.” Above: Identifying most-used SaaS apps with Productiv.
To that end, Productiv’s cloud-based dashboard integrates with single sign-on tools to track login activity and extract purchase and license data from contracts, finance, and expense reporting systems, offering an organization-wide view of agreements and expired software. Furthermore, it surfaces real-time usage and engagement statistics that can highlight redundant apps. Configurable rules and licenses enable admins to reclaim licenses automatically, and granular engagement logs — including charts that plot the number of engaged users, teams, and locations over time — make it easier to compare stats to industry benchmarks and to determine best practices that might boost productivity.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The endgame is to empower companies to make profit-boosting rightsizing decisions from app analytics, Shapiro says. Rather than just seeing that a division has, say, 300 Dropbox licenses and that 40 percent of team members uploaded files to Dropbox folders this past fiscal quarter, CIOs can drill down into the productivity impact of those licenses and estimate the potential cost savings of choosing not to renew them.
“[One] of our customers had thousands of employees using three different SaaS storage applications,” the Productiv team explains. “Different teams and locations had separately purchased Box, Dropbox, and SharePoint over the years. The company was paying for far more licenses than they needed … [and] Productiv allowed [it] to understand which storage app to consolidate and standardize on, which … improved everyone’s ability to share and collaborate, reducing the time they spend working between applications, and increasing productivity.” Palo Alto, California-based Productiv is launching the service today in early access.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
