Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages GitHub for Android and iOS launches out of beta Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Microsoft’s GitHub today launched its native Android and iOS app out of beta. With the app hitting general availability, developers can stay in touch with their team, triage issues, and even merge code right from their mobile device. You can download the app now from Google Play and Apple’s App Store.
GitHub was founded in February 2008 — a mobile app was long overdue. The company announced its first native mobile app at the company’s Universe developers conference in November. The iOS app debuted in beta then, and the Android beta app followed in January.
Microsoft acquired GitHub for $7.5 billion in June 2018 , though the company does not make enough money to be a line item in earnings reports.
 Still, GitHub is a massive platform — more than 40 million developers worldwide use it for programming various projects. The mobile app’s launch happens to come at a good time: With the current COVID-19 coronavirus, more developers than ever are away from their office computers, juggling working from home , grocery store runs, and otherwise being on the go.
GitHub mobile features GitHub lists three main features for its app: Organize tasks in a swipe: Swipe to finish a task or save the notification to return to it later.
Give feedback and respond to issues: Respond to comments while you’re on the go.
Review and merge pull requests: Merge and mark pull requests to breeze through your workflow.
The company has made a lot of progress since the beta launch. Ryan Nystrom, GitHub’s director of engineering, said his team has fixed over 200 bugs, acted on over 400,000 notifications, and merged over 20,000 code changes. That was all made possible thanks to 60,000 testers making nearly 35,000 comments. In the past few weeks alone, beta testers commented on, reviewed, and merged over 100,000 pull requests and issues.
“Since the beta, one of the key changes that we’ve built in is the ability to read and review code,” Nystrom told VentureBeat. “This dramatically expands how the app empowers users, allowing developers to share feedback and review lines of code with just a tap. Additionally, users are able to review and leave comments right from their phone, which is synced, and can pick up right where they left off from their computers.” Nystrom noted that he didn’t expect developers would want to read and review code on their phone. But when one of the team’s Android engineers prototyped commenting on individual lines of code, that quickly changed. The team prioritized adding more features to mobile code review, and the app is shipping now with per-line commenting on both Android and iOS. As for what’s next, Nystrom said “a pretty detailed roadmap full of features” will come to the app “over the coming months.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
