Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Botkeeper raises $25 million to automate accounting tasks Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Botkeeper , a startup developing automated data entry, classification, and reporting solutions for accounting, today announced it has raised a $25 million round. CEO and cofounder Enrico Palmerino said the funding will allow Botkeeper to “double down” on engineering and product development for its enterprise customers.
Studies show the vast majority of day-to-day accounting tasks can be automated with software. That may be why over 50% of respondents in a survey conducted by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants said they anticipate the development of automated and intelligent systems will have a significant impact on accounting businesses over the next 30 years.
Botkeeper aims to hasten the shift with a platform that integrates with banks, credit cards, payroll providers, and more than 1,200 clients and partners to access and extract data from financial and non-financial sources. Human teams working in the U.S., Canada, Africa, and the Philippines train the company’s algorithm-driven software to perform tasks like categorizing expenses, paying bills, invoicing, reconciling, entering data into accounting spreadsheets, and more before they’re approved, verified, and submitted to a general ledger.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! BotKeeper’s ScanBot feature supports the scanning and uploading of receipts, invoices, expenses, sales, and contracts, with receipt syncing to upload data to the general ledger and match it with transactions in accounting software. Beyond receipts, Botkeeper automatically categorizes transactions based on historical data, identifying patterns to make educated guesses.
Botkeeper says the AI, machine learning, and robotic process automation technologies underpinning its platform have been exposed to millions of financial transactions and evaluate hundreds of variables, enabling them to tackle bookkeeping workloads with precision. They continuously improve over time and provide feedback about atypical transaction activities and exceptions to authorized managers and executives.
For tasks that can’t be automated away, like tax filing and wealth management, Botkeeper connects clients with accounting firms and recruits its in-house team of CPAs and accountants to revamp books and bring them up to date. In all cases, Boteeper delivers reporting tools that spotlight things like financial and non-financial trends and adherence to (or violations of) KPIs.
Botkeeper claims its clients reduce bookkeeping costs by 45% and scale up by 10 times, on average.
The series B round — which was led by Point72 Ventures, with participation from High Alpha Capital, Republic Labs, Oakridge, Peak State, Ignition Partners, Greycroft Partners, Gradient Ventures, and Sorenson Capital — brings Boston-based Botkeeper’s total raised to $47.5 million. Despite pandemic-related headwinds and competition from the likes of Receipt Bank , the company says it expects a 3 times year-over-year run rate in 2020 and plans to add dozens of employees to its workforce of over 100.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
