Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Facebook Gaming will host more than 90 community tournaments Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Facebook Gaming will host a Valorant tournament.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Facebook Gaming said it will work with community partners such as Real Time Strategies and Community Gaming New York to host more than 90 online community events.
These are small events that are open to the public. Each features a $1,000 prize pool, small enough not to attract esports stars but surely enough to be a draw for your neighborhood amateur gamer.
Interested competitors can find and register for a tournament here.
Facebook Gaming said that organized play (like tournaments) connects people around games in a powerful way. However, funding and access to organized play opportunities amid the pandemic has become increasingly limited. So Facebook Gaming launched its tournament product in March to help people stay connected through games and organized play. Now, Facebook is expanding that effort.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The Facebook Gaming tournament series kicks off on Saturday, February 20, with two events — a Valorant tournament organized by CGNY at 10 a.m. Pacific time and Ultimate Marvel vs Capcom tournament organized by RTS at 11 a.m. Pacific. Each tournament has a $1,000 prize pool and is open to the public.
RTS and CGNY will hold several more tournaments throughout February with titles including Valorant, Halo 3 , Street Fighter V, Ultimate Marvel vs Capcom 3, and Tatsunoko vs Capcom: Ultimate All Stars. Registration and participation is free.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
