Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Mocana raises $15 million for internet of things cybersecurity Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Cybercrime is on the rise. As many as 73 percent of industrial companies have suffered a security incident resulting in the loss of sensitive data, according to Siemens, and those breaches are projected to be costly. A report from Cybersecurity Ventures pegs the total collective damages at $6 trillion by 2021.
An outsized number of vulnerable devices fall squarely into the internet of things (IoT) category, which is Mocana’s specialty — since 2004, it has developed and maintained an end-to-end, on-device cybersecurity suite tailor-made for a range of systems, like in-flight entertainment consoles, medical devices, and cell phone carrier networks. To fuel growth, Mocana today announced it has raised $15 million in new funding from Sway Ventures, with existing investors Shasta Ventures and ForgePoint Capital participating. This comes after the San Francisco-based startup’s $11 million series F in May 2017 and brings its total venture capital raised to $105 million.
Mocana CEO William Diotte said the fresh cash will be used to add new technical capabilities (such as visibility and analytics tools) to the company’s products and to expand its sales, marketing, and customer support teams. He said the funds will also drive “further [expansion]” across Mocana’s 200-company-strong client base of defense, manufacturing, and IoT companies, which includes industry titans like Samsung, Verizon, Xerox, Emerson, Schneider Electric, ABB, Emerson, HP, General Dynamics, GE, Panasonic, AT&T, Bosch, and Siemens.
“With existing IT network and operational technology security measures failing to keep the hackers at bay, there has never been a more critical time to rethink security and start protecting devices from the inside out,” Diotte added. “Developers creating applications and services for the IoT can no longer afford to bolt on security as an afterthought; trust must be embedded at the beginning of device and application life cycles … Our customers require simple and secure solutions that allow them to protect both legacy devices and new devices.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Mocana’s cryptographic controls target IoT systems not only in the development and manufacturing stages, but throughout activation, updates, and management. Its TrustPoint product features a full-stack architecture compiled into C++, Java, or Python, with a cryptographic engine optimized for resource-constrained devices containing as little as 64KB of RAM and less than 30KB of storage.
In addition to spotlight features like credentialing and encryption, Mocana’s software-as-a-service (SaaS) offers verified boot and updates via an automated certificates pipeline, on-device firewalls, and zero-touch device enrollment leveraging the IETF’s Enrollment over Secure Transport (EST) standard. Moreover, it enables apps to call cryptographic functions through a set of APIs and makes available a “military-grade” cryptographic library using an OpenSSL-compatible interface.
“Mocana is driving a fundamentally different approach to securing IoT from the device to the cloud,” said Shasta Ventures’ Rob Coneybeer. “We continue to invest in Mocana because we firmly believe that … device security management platform is a game-changing technology for the future of IoT and industrial control system security.” Mocana says its solutions integrate with more than 70 chipsets and 30 real-time operating systems from the likes of Arm, Dell, Qualcomm, Intel, and Microsoft. The company also claims its products are currently protecting over 100 million IoT and industrial devices.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
