Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Futurists want to transform Black Mirror’s dystopia into something better Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The White Mirror is the opposite of the bleak future in Black Mirror TV shows.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Netflilx’s Black Mirror has the tech world worried about the dystopian future that the science fiction show depicts. To counter that, a group of futurists, creators, and hackers are gathering in Los Angeles to envision a “ White Mirror ,” or a society where technology can inspire us instead.
About 100 people will gather in Los Angeles for the project, dubbed #OnceUponAFuture, and the first edition is called #WhiteMirror, as an homage to the TV series, which features shocking stories about technology addiction, surveillance, mind control, and hacking. Their mission is to reboot Black Mirror and create short, viral video clips aimed at inspiring more hopeful narratives of the future.
I like this theme, and it’s the same sort of conversation I’d like to inspire at our upcoming GamesBeat Summit 2017 event on May 1 and May 2 in Berkeley, California. We’ll be talking about the inspiration between science fiction, real-world technology, and games.
Above: White Mirror On April 22 and April 23, the teams have only 33 hours to write, film and publish short videos and virtual reality experiences which will try “turn our biggest nightmares into our biggest wins.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The teams are made up of tech researchers and also creatives from Hollywood and the new virtual reality production companies taking over “Silicon Beach,” the nickname for the tech region in Los Angeles.
The goal of the experiment is to seed realities into our future using the power of storytelling and collective hashtagging, the organizers said.
The project will be held at the virtual reality online media company Upload VR ’s new UploadLA incubator and mixed reality studio. The effort is organized by L.A. futurist and artist Zenka. Participants from research facilities such as California State University Northridge and the University of Southern California Institute for Creative Technology.
Teams will attend from production companies and VR companies such as WeVR, JYCVR, EmpactLabs, 20th Century Fox, JoltVR, The Foundry, SuperArchitects, Opaque Studios, Blumhouse TV, Hotbit VR, Women in VR, Emblematic Group, SH//FT etc.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
