Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Exclusive Raph Koster’s Playable Worlds raises $2.7 million for sandbox MMORPG Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Playable Worlds logo Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Online gaming veteran Raph Koster has started a new company called Playable Worlds , and it has raised $2.7 million in seed funding to change the way immersive worlds work.
Koster’s team includes a distinguished team of developers with many decades of collective online game experience from Disney, Marvel, Sony Online Entertainment, and venture-backed startups. They built massively multiplayer online role-playing games (MMORPGs) such as Ultima Online and Star Wars Galaxies.
Bitkraft Esports Ventures led the funding, with participation from 1UP Ventures and several game industry angel investors.
“We have a team in place. They’re veteran folks, many of whom I’ve worked with directly before,” Koster said, in an exclusive interview with GamesBeat. “As you might guess, with the online world, we are going to build a massively multiplayer world where all sorts of players can come together and find ways to regardless of whether they like exploring or adventuring or socializing or player-versus-player (PvP). It’s a sandbox world that supports many ways to play.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! “If you look across a lot of the most popular games that are out there, and the ways in which people play them, whether it’s PvP, or like Minecraft, or like building, some people like playing for socializing, and so on,” Koster added. “There’s an awful lot of proven features out there that we know audiences enjoy. And a lot of them actually were born from sandbox MMOs. So we’re going to bring together those proven, fun features that we know people like, into one world.” The team Above: Raph Koster is CEO of Playable Worlds.
Koster, CEO and founder of Playable Worlds, is the award-winning lead designer of Ultima Online and creative director of Star Wars Galaxies. He is also a former executive at Sony Online Entertainment and Disney and was the founder of Metaplace.
Alongside Koster, Playable Worlds includes former senior technical leader at Amazon and Disney, Dorian Ouer, chief technology officer; veteran comic book illustrator for Marvel and DC and award-winning art director for MMOs, Mat Broome, studio art director; industry expert with experience shipping and leading live operations for web, console, and mobile games, Brian Crowder, lead server engineer; and lead designer of more than 30 commercially published games, Greg Costikyan, lead game designer.
Additionally, cofounder Eric Goldberg is head of business, strategy, and corporate development for Playable Worlds. Goldberg has served as a strategic advisor or board member for over 60 companies including Playdom, PlaySpan, and Pixelberry.
What they’re building Above: Eric Goldberg is cofounder of Playable Worlds.
Koster isn’t describing what the game is called or what’s about. But he did say it is a single game world, and it is an original title, rather than a licensed universe.
“It’s going to be a brand new intellectual property,” Koster said.
Playable Worlds is building an online world where a broad range of players can find a home, whether their preferred playstyle is exploring, adventuring, socializing, crafting, or player versus player combat. These diverse communities can each play the game in their own way, or cross over with one another, delivering diverse play experience and enriching the world. It’s hopefully going to a game that becomes a hobby for players, Koster said.
“We want a world where all sorts of players can find a home,” Koster said. “That means for players and people who are more casual, people who are really gamey and people who enjoy chatting. From mobile games to Facebook games, I do think that there are great lessons to be had from all of those different parts of our industry, and I want to apply them all.” Bringing together proven features from some of the world’s most popular games in a unique combination that hasn’t been seen before, the team is developing a broadly appealing and novel experience that leverages modern cloud architecture, simulation, and AI. The funding will be used to scale the expert team and accelerate product development.
“We are honored to work with Raph Koster and the entire Playable Worlds team as they redefine MMOs with new levels of community interaction synonymous with streaming culture,” said Scott Rupp, a partner with Bitkraft Esports Ventures. “Playable Worlds is building on Raph’s incredible heritage of MMO design innovation to create a completely new experience that will push the boundaries of persistent game worlds and social competitive play.” Koster and Goldberg started the company in 2018 in San Marcos, California, near San Diego. Koster said there is a wealth of online gaming talent in the area.
Before starting the company, both Koster and Goldberg had been doing a lot of consulting for games. Koster worked on mobile augmented reality for Google, among other things. That enabled them to see a lot of lessons across categories.
“The trend lines are toward MMO-like services in games,” Koster said. “They are popping up everywhere and there is huge pressure in that direction for a whole bunch of reasons. It felt like it was the right time to bring some of the things that I helped innovate full circle.” GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
