Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Eventbrite: Events on Facebook result in 2X the ticket sales Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Eventbrite San Francisco offices Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
For over a decade, Eventbrite has sought to position itself as more than a service to sell tickets, but rather as delivering an overall experience. To achieve this, the company has been working on developing the Event Graph to make it easier for people to discover events they might be interested in. So far, the results appear to be promising.
“We are fundamentally helping people find great experiences,” said Scott Van Brunt, Eventbrite’s head of partnerships, in an interview with VentureBeat. More than 2 million tickets are sold each week through Eventbrite’s platform, but it has largely been through traditional third-party channels, rather than anything native. In July, Eventbrite began a partnership with Facebook that would allow users to buy event tickets directly through its site and apps. Van Brunt claimed that since then Facebook-powered events have generated 2X more ticket sales than before.
While he declined to provide specific numbers, Van Brunt said that more than 500,000 events have been published to Facebook since Eventbrite began its distributed commerce strategy. He believes this validates the company’s strategy to be everywhere consumers are. “The thing that’s interesting about [our distributed strategy] is there’s a shift in the ticketing industry. We’re bringing openness and letting anyone grab ticketing inventory,” he noted. “This represents a fundamental shift.” The success of the Facebook integration is something Eventbrite said demonstrates the power of social commerce. “Events is a use case with impulse purchases…it’s different from other ecommerce hard goods, where if you buy a TV, for example, you go to Best Buy to purchase it at the moment you want. But with events, it’s being discovered on a blog, Facebook, etc.” “Bringing tickets to the people is a trend we’ve heard mentioned repeatedly at industry events. And ticket sales are becoming more about creating meaningful relationships with people so they become followers and repeat attendees instead of simple, isolated transactions,” said Facebook’s events ticketing product manager, Yoav Zeevi. “Facebook has a unique ability to help foster those relationships and keep people engaged and interested.” Van Brunt shared that Eventbrite will be continuing to invest in its integration with Facebook — a longstanding relationship that stretches as far back as Facebook Connect, which launched in 2008. The ticketing technology company has started to expand its Facebook partnership outside the United States, beginning in the U.K. There are also plans to make the service more available to other partners.
“These days, people discover events in a variety of ways — they pop up in our Facebook feed, in our email inbox, via text, or as curated recommendations similar to events we already have tickets to. With the largest pool of events in the world, Eventbrite is uniquely positioned to create a rich marketplace where over 50 million people come each year to discover incredible live experiences, while ensuring tickets to those events also appear at other natural points of discovery, like Facebook and Bandsintown,” said Tamara Mendelsohn, Eventbrite’s general manager for consumer products.
For years, Eventbrite-powered events have been found through third-party referrals, such as links on social media, emails, blogs, and other sites. But that required you to leave the page or site you were on, which organizers and promoters didn’t like this because it pulled traffic away.
Now Eventbrite has transformed itself into a ticketing platform so developers or partners working around events can also easily tap into its database. “Eventbrite will continue to be an open platform and one that heavily relies on and works with the ecosystem,” Van Brunt said. “We want to provide a good end-to-end experience with partners.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
