Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages SAP doubles down on cloud computing push Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A view of the headquarters of SAP, Germany's largest software company Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
( Reuters ) — Christian Klein, CEO of German software group SAP, on Wednesday launched a campaign to encourage customers to move operations to the cloud , a shift that has brought short-term pain to investors but one that he hopes will pay off over time.
Klein, 40, in sole charge at SAP since April, has adopted a subscription-based service model that generates predictable revenue rather than the lumpy up-front cash flows from software licences.
SAP — the leading provider of “mission-critical” apps that 400,000 firms use to run finance, personnel, logistics, and ecommerce — has traditionally run software in on-premise servers powered by its proprietary database.
Now it is promoting a version of its latest S/4 HANA data engine that is hosted on remote cloud servers, offering improved connectivity with its own apps and — should customers choose — those of its competitors.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Ahead of the launch event, called Rise with SAP, Klein pitched the idea of a deeper transformation that would empower clients like industrial group Siemens to redesign business processes from end to end.
“It’s much more than just a technical migration,” Klein told reporters in a briefing. “They want to change how their enterprise functions.” As an additional teaser, SAP is offering enhanced business process intelligence functionality to crunch data and analyze whether companies are configuring operations in the most efficient way.
SAP said it was taking over Berlin-based tech startup Signavio, adding a “cloud-native” dimension to its ability to help customers “understand, improve, transform, and manage their business processes at scale.” Terms were not disclosed for the deal, which is expected to close in early 2021 subject to regulatory approvals. Bloomberg, which first reported the deal, cited sources as saying they valued Signavio at around 1 billion euros ($1.2 billion).
Klein abandoned his medium-term profit goals last autumn when he announced SAP’s cloud pivot, cautioning that its business would take longer than expected to recover from the coronavirus pandemic.
That announcement, which came with a third-quarter earnings miss, sparked the biggest drop in SAP shares in a generation, causing SAP to lose its mantle as Europe’s most valuable technology company.
Management upheaval has persisted into 2021, with top customer support executive Adaire Fox-Martin departing earlier this month when SAP reported preliminary 2020 results ahead of schedule.
( Reporting by Douglas Busvine. Editing by Edmund Blair and Jane Merriman.
) VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
