Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Starburst raises $100 million to take on data lake rivals Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Starburst Data has raised $100 million as the data analytics company continues to ride the surge in data lakes.
Andreessen Horowitz led the round , which included Index Partners, Coatue, and Salesforce’s venture capital arm.
The funding comes just six months after Starburst raised $42 million , bringing its total to $164 million for a valuation of $1.2 billion. And the latest announcement came on the same day another data lake company, Dremio, announced it had raised $100 million.
So what’s this arms race all about? As companies grapple with growing amounts of information, data lakes allow them to pool structured and unstructured data in one spot, which then facilitates the movement and processing of that data.
“We believe we are solving the biggest problem that the big data era couldn’t: offering fast access to data, regardless of where it lives,” Starburst CEO Justin Borgman wrote in a blog post.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! In the case of Starburst, it’s built on Presto, an open source project developed at Facebook. Indeed, three of Starbursts’ cofounders are from Facebook, where they worked on the project.
Starburst began life as Hadapt, a startup founded by Borgman. Teradata acquired Hadapt in 2014 but spun Starburst off in 2017. Along the way, Hadapt-Starburst shifted its focus from Hadoop to Presto.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
