Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages EA acquires Super Mega Baseball dev Metalhead Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Super Mega Baseball.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Electronic Arts announced today that it has acquired Metalhead Software, the studio behind the Super Mega Baseball series.
“EA Sports and Metalhead are teaming up to grow the Super Mega Baseball franchise as well as develop new gaming and sports experiences for players worldwide,” EA notes in a press release. EA Sports has giant hits with the Madden and FIFA franchises, but it hasn’t released an MLB game since its MVP Baseball series ended in 2005.
The first Super Mega Baseball debuted in 2014. The latest entry, Super Mega Baseball 3, came out in 2020. The series has received praise from fans and critics, but it does not have an MLB license, so it can’t use MLB teams or players. That could change now that the series has EA’s backing.
Right now, Sony’s MLB The Show franchise dominates baseball gaming. Its latest entry, MLB The Show, came out on April 20 and is the first game in the series to also launch on Xbox.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
