Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Dataiku raises $400M to democratize AI in the enterprise Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Dataiku Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Dataiku , an enterprise-focused platform that helps data analysts and scientists, among other non-coder employees, build their own predictive AI models and garner insights from unstructured data, has raised $400 million in a series E round of funding at a $4.6 billion valuation.
Founded in 2013, Dataiku is pitched as an end-to-end platform for designing, deploying, and managing AI and analytics applications, with data connectors for sources such as Amazon S3, Azure Blob Storage, Google Cloud Storage, Snowflake, and NoSQL/SQL databases.
The New York-based company said it helps “democratize AI” for enterprise clients across industries, including Unilever, Westpac, OVH, NXP Merck, and Ubisoft, which use the platform to optimize their supply chain, reduce customer churn, detect fraud, and more.
AI insights Businesses across the spectrum have increasingly leveraged AI to bring greater intelligence to their decision-making process, but developing and training AI and machine learning models is a resource-intensive process requiring specialist skillsets. Dataiku and similar platforms help companies reduce their dependency on specialized in-house data scientists to let any team become AI creators, rather than AI consumers.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Earlier this year, Dataiku launched a slew of new tools to help companies reduce their dependency on data science teams, including the ability to run “what-if” AI model simulations to predict the outcome of any changes they make to a specific piece of data. And back in June, Dataiku launched a fully managed hosted online analytics service to minimize companies’ IT expenditure. Starting at $499 per month, the fully managed service does most of the heavy lifting, which might help smaller companies with fewer resources or bigger firms seeking to bolster their existing data science team.
Dataiku had already raised around $250 million across several rounds of funding dating back eight years — its most recent a $100 million series D round last year.
 This latest series E round was led by Tiger Global, with participation from Alphabet’s CapitalG, Snowflake Ventures, Insight Partners, Iconiq Growth, Battery Ventures, and FirstMark Capital, among others.
Dataiku’s raise comes hot on the heels of a number of major funding rounds in the space, including Databricks, which raised $1 billion at a $28 billion valuation back in February, and Datarobot, which secured $300 at a $6.3 billion valuation last week.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
