Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Lily Hay Newman Security The Simple Fix That'd Help Protect Georgia From Election Hacks Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Early voting in the runoff for Georgia’s Sixth District congressional seat kicked off May 30; election day itself comes on June 20. The race has garnered national attention as one in which Democrats could pick up a long-held Republican seat. It has also generated scrutiny, though, for taking place in a state with some of the most lax protections against electoral fraud, at a time when Russia has meddled freely in campaigns in the US and abroad.
But Georgia's voting issues aren't rooted in any specific hacking threat. The problem instead lies in the state's inability to prove if fraud or tampering happened in the first place. By not deploying a simple paper backup system, Georgia opens itself up to one of the most damaging electoral outcomes of all: uncertainty.
“You have an un-provable system," says Pamela Smith, president of Verified Voting, a group that promotes best practices at the polls. “It might be right, it might not be right, and that absence of authoritative confirmation is the biggest problem. It’s corrosive.” First, the good news. Unlike dozens of other states, Georgia officials maintain that Russian hackers did not compromise the state’s election infrastructure in any way during the 2016 presidential election. Georgia voting machines also don't connect to the internet, and the state says it tests them before, during, and after voting to confirm that they aren't running unapproved software, like viruses or other malicious programs.
More Election Security Security Brian Barrett Security Andy Greenberg Cyber Espionage Andy Greenberg But researchers have demonstrated that hackers can compromise machines like those used in Georgia. The state has also suffered election security lapses, including a recent incident, detailed in Politico , in which a huge amount of sensitive election data sat exposed for many months in Georgia's unified election center at Kennesaw State University. These fresh developments feed longstanding concerns about the security of Georgia’s election infrastructure overall—and the need for paper backups so the system can be audited.
“This has been an ongoing issue since 2002,” says Sara Henderson, policy director at Common Cause Georgia, a non-partisan group that advocates for government transparency. “Our machines haven’t been updated since 2005, they’re running on Windows 2000. It’s ridiculous. We need to ensure that we can verify and audit our election processes here in Georgia, which we can’t do right now.” Voting in the U.S. can be cumbersome enough as it is; you don’t hear a lot of nostalgia for the punch-card systems of yesteryear. Technologies like voter registry databases, touchscreen voting machines, and digital scanners can make voting protocols easy to use for voters, poll workers, and election officials alike. And it is possible to robustly secure this digital infrastructure. But when it comes to securing the vote experts have urged states around the US to go low-tech—at least in one respect.
The best contingency in case something goes wrong (like, say, some-nation state meddles in the election)? Good ol’ paper backups that citizens verify when they cast their votes. By keeping paper copies on hand, election officials have the option to audit election results randomly or if they suspect a mishap, and recount as much of the vote as they need to without having to worry that a digital hack has impacted their backup.
“If there is uncertainty after an election, either because of the possibility of tampering or just the possibility of error or malfunction, a paperless system like Georgia’s doesn’t have any way to go back to other evidence to figure out what really happened,” says Ed Felten, one of the security researchers who showed that the voting machine model used in Georgia can be hacked, and who served as deputy US chief technology officer from 2015 until this year. “That evidence is key to being able to resolve any kind of uncertainty or dispute that might arise.” Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg Georgia joins just four other states—Delaware, Louisiana, South Carolina, and New Jersey—that only use digital voting throughout, though some individual counties elsewhere offer no paper trail as well. Georgia also declined Department of Homeland Security election defense consultation during the 2016 presidential race, citing concerns that DHS wanted to inappropriately federalize the election system. A few other states, like Indiana, followed suit. As a result, if an election hack does take place either in this runoff or in the future, Georgia officials will have nothing to fall back on that they can trust.
You can trace Georgia's inability to audit back to 2000, when a dramatic recount in the US presidential election spurred many states to replace “punch card” voting systems with digital upgrades. The paper ballots had yielded too many "hanging chads" that made voter intention hard to suss out.
In 2002, Georgia moved to standardize its election infrastructure across all counties by distributing AccuVote TS touch-screen voting machines. At the same time, the state abolished mechanisms for creating paper-vote backups. The direct-recording electronic voting machines that Georgia uses to this day do have an option to add a paper backup mechanism, but Georgia's 2005 paper pilot program ran into technical problems. It also didn't adequately protect the privacy of voters with disabilities.
'It’s not satisfactory after your airplane lands to say well, it didn’t crash this time.' — Security researcher Ed Felten So yes, adding a paper trail to Georgia’s election infrastructure would involve a full overhaul. But it could likely use one anyway, given that the current devices are approaching the end of their 20-year max lifespan. And the potential consequences of not adding a paper audit continue to escalate.
“Every [election] we cross our fingers and hope that this is not the time that there’s an incident,” Felten says. “It’s really not satisfactory to say afterward that we didn’t have a problem this time, just in the same way that it’s not satisfactory after your airplane lands to say well, it didn’t crash this time.” In May, voting rights advocates filed an emergency motion to compel the use of paper ballots in the upcoming 6th District runoff. Superior Court Judge Kimberly Esmond Adams dismissed the case on Friday, though, concluding that to grant it would illegally interfere with Georgia Secretary of State Brian Kemp’s authority over state elections. Since the motion named Kemp as the defendant in his role as Secretary of State, Adams also noted that he is protected by Georgia’s sovereign immunity laws.
But advocates of voting-system reform say that the case has still had a positive impact. “Lawsuits close to elections are very challenging,” Verified Voting's Smith says. “But it certainly does draw attention to the issue, and you can get some testimony on the record.” Georgia officials maintain that overhauling election infrastructure would be cost-prohibitive, but advocates point out that the 2017-2018 state budget increased by 3.5 percent, with none of that money earmarked for maintaining or replacing election systems.
That's not for lack of awareness of the issues. A 2015 Brennan Center for Justice investigation asked Merle King, the executive director of Georgia's Center for Election Systems, how many jurisdictions would want to purchase new voting machines if they could. "They all would," she said. And that was before the extent of Russia's electoral interference ambitions came to light.
Whatever the reason for the delay, Georgia’s elections remain vulnerable to manipulation, simply because there would be no recourse if the vote were somehow tainted. The way to safeguard the vote is clear; it seemingly lacks the will to do so.
Senior Writer X Topics election hacking elections hacks National Affairs Dell Cameron Andy Greenberg Dell Cameron David Gilbert Andy Greenberg Dhruv Mehrotra Matt Burgess Andy Greenberg Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
