Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Driverless delivery company Nuro nabs $600M and partners with Google Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Autonomous vehicle (AV) company Nuro has raised $600 million in a series D round of funding from high-profile investors, including Tiger Global Management and Google. This brings its valuation to $8.6 billion, according to sources, up significantly from its $5 billion valuation less than a year ago.
Founded in 2016, Nuro is setting out to capitalize on shifting consumer expectations and trends that have been accelerated by the global pandemic, namely how they experience ecommerce. Customers in supported U.S. locales place their online orders directly with Nuro’s partner companies, and Nuro’s so-called “zero-occupant” autonomous delivery vehicles will transport anything from groceries to pharmacy prescriptions.
Alongside Google’s sibling company Waymo , Nuro has emerged as one of the leading players in the commercial driverless car space — last year, it became the first such company to receive a permit from the California Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) that enabled it to charge money for its driverless delivery service.
“The arrival of ubiquitous on-demand ecommerce is changing the way we access goods,” Tiger Global partner Griffin Schroeder said in a press release. “Nuro is the bridge to an era of sustainable, low cost, autonomous local delivery.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Above: Nuro in action The Google factor In addition to the funding, Nuro also revealed a five year “strategic partnership” with Google Cloud, which it said will support the “massive scale and capacity required to run self-driving simulation workloads,” as well as give Nuro access to machine learning smarts and storage for the vast amount of data generated by its vehicles.
Interestingly, the duo also revealed that they would explore other commercial opportunities together to “strengthen and transform local commerce,” though they provided no further details on what exactly this might entail.
Nuro had previously raised around $1.5 billion, and with another $600 million in the bank, the company is now well-financed to further develop and deploy its autonomous delivery service with some of the biggest brands across the U.S. Indeed, Nuro has amassed a fairly impressive roster of customers including Kroger , Domino’s , Walmart , and CVS.
Aside from lead backer Tiger Global Management and Google, Nuro’s series D round ushered in a slew of notable investors, including Kroger and SoftBank Vision Fund 1.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
