Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Vuzix announces M4000 enterprise AR glasses with optical waveguide Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Rochester, New York-based augmented reality glasses maker Vuzix has spent years on a quest to deliver thin, practical AR wearables, moving further with enterprise and consumer solutions every year or so. At this year’s CES, Vuzix is introducing a high-end enterprise solution called the M4000 Smart Glasses, described as “the most powerful optically see-through smart glasses built for enterprise customers” yet.
Based on Qualcomm’s Snapdragon XR1 platform, the M4000 uses a waveguide display system, enabling users to see augmented digital content without any occlusion of real-world visuals. Though the company’s existing $1,800 M400 remains a viable AR solution for many industries, Vuzix says the new model’s optical see-through technology is appropriate for specific businesses — including critical manufacturing and remote assistance apps — that require transparent, non-occluded overlays.
While it’s fairly complex and expensive today, and thus suitable for enterprise use, waveguide technology is expected to power future consumer AR solutions as well. Beams of light are projected inside transparent lenses in a manner that makes digital content — if synchronized to the user’s head motions — appear to merge with real objects and backgrounds. Otherwise, the digital imagery appears to float within scenes.
The M4000 is expected to enter volume production in summer 2020 and ship at a $2,499 price point. Since they share the Snapdragon XR1 platform, applications developed for the M400 should be compatible with the M4000.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
