Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages A look at the history of Cyber Monday (infographic) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The current holiday season is shaping up to become the most lucrative ever for businesses, as VentureBeat has noted in many reports today.
Cyber Monday sales may reach $1.2 billion this year , up from $1 billion last season. Part of that increase might be due to shoppers either not finding what they wanted on Black Friday or wanting to avoid its crushing crowds altogether. Ultimately, it seems that the fictitious capitalist holiday is here to stay.
Of the businesses that are benefiting, none have had more of a boost than online retail giant Amazon. As VentureBeat’s Jennifer Van Grove notes, Amazon sales jumped 30 percent on Thanksgiving Day and continued to climb throughout the weekend. With that kind of growth, along with some killer deals , Amazon’s Cyber Monday might end up being the climax for the entire holiday season.
But Cyber Monday is hardly a recent phenomenon. In fact, it first kicked off six years ago as a way for online retailers to compensate for the lack of brick and mortar store locations. Check out the infographic below for a deeper look at the history of Cyber Monday (click image to enlarge).
[I nfographic via YouNeverLose.com ] VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
