Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google’s DeepMind is using machine learning to predict wind turbine energy production Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Google’s DeepMind is using machine learning to predict the performance of its wind turbines 36 hours in advance. The prediction of wind turbine performance for turbines in the central United States more than a day in advance has led to a roughly 20 percent increase in the value of wind energy, Google and DeepMind said in a joint blog post today.
The model is trained using weather data and historical wind turbine performance data.
“Based on these predictions, our model recommends how to make optimal hourly delivery commitments to the power grid a full day in advance. This is important, because energy sources that can be scheduled (i.e. can deliver a set amount of electricity at a set time) are often more valuable to the grid,” the post reads.
Little data was provided on the overall accuracy of the system’s predictions thus far, but Google and DeepMind want to make wind power more reliable with machine learning in order to make it a more attractive form of energy in the future.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “Our hope is that this kind of machine learning approach can strengthen the business case for wind power and drive further adoption of carbon-free energy on electric grids worldwide,” the blog post reads.
Google set a target to reach 100 percent renewable energy by 2017 , and last year signed a 10-year deal with a Finnish energy company to fuel its Nordic data centers. Google also uses AI to make cooling servers in its data centers more efficient.
This is the most recent form of artificial intelligence to be applied to make wind power cheaper and more efficient. Earlier this month, a group of researchers introduced WaveletFCNN , a classification model to predict the buildup of ice on wind turbines. The stop of energy production due to ice damage to wind turbine blades can reduce energy production up to 20 percent, according to wind consultancy firm TechnoCentre Éolien (TCE).
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
