Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google expands Project Sunroof ‘solar power potential’ program beyond the U.S. and into Germany Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Solar Panels Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google is expanding its Project Sunroof program beyond the U.S. for the first time and will now assess the potential for solar power energy in homes across Germany, too.
First introduced back in 2015 , Project Sunroof is effectively a search engine that lets anyone look up a specific address to discover the potential for solar energy collection in any home. After a gradual rollout across the U.S., the web service finally landed in all 50 U.S. states back in March.
By meshing together data from Google Maps and Google Earth, Google uses 3D models and machine learning to estimate whether the position and location of a house has the potential to collect solar energy, and thus whether solar is a worthy investment for a homeowner. The tool looks at how much sun hits a roof and the position of the roof, while also factoring in historical weather data, shading from nearby objects, and the position of the sun at different times of the year.
Above: Project Sunroof For the German launch of Project Sunroof, Google has partnered with E.ON and a software company called Tetraeder, and Google said that roughly seven million German homes are currently covered by the program. Moving forward, Project Sunroof data will be integrated with E.ON’s website from today, allowing consumers to find out whether their home has solar potential and to purchase the necessary equipment to make it happen.
Google has long touted its green credentials, and the company recently revealed that it expected to reach 100 percent renewable energy for its global operations in 2017.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
