Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Slack’s shares fall 18% after quarterly billing growth slows Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Slack logo at Slush 2018 conference in Helsinki, Finland Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
( Reuters ) — Slack’s billing growth, a key indicator of future revenue, slowed in the second quarter, and the workplace messaging app owner said it took an $11 million hit in the first half due to the COVID-19-related concessions.
The company said it offered credits, payment in installments, and billing duration of less than a year to help users over the economic downturn triggered by the health crisis, sending its shares down 18% after the bell.
In the previous quarter, Slack had signaled weak demand from worst-affected industries, like retail and travel, prompting it to withdraw its full-year billings target.
“In Q2, growth in many of our customers contracted or flattened versus normal seasonal trends. In August, growth began to trend at more typical seasonal levels,” CFO Allen Shim said in a call with analysts.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Slack’s quarterly billings rose 25% but fell short of the 38% growth it posted in the first quarter. Billings are an important growth metric for a subscription-based platform like Slack.
Its second-quarter revenue topped expectations by nearly $7 million, but that overachievement was not mirrored in the full-year outlook.
Slack’s annual revenue forecast of $870 million to $876 million was roughly in line with expectations of $872.3 million.
Excluding items, the company broke even, compared with analysts’ average estimate of a loss of 3 cents per share, according to IBES data from Refinitiv.
( Reporting by Neha Malara in Bengaluru. Editing by Maju Samuel and Arun Koyyur.
) VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
