Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages CB Insights: AI startup funding hit new high of $26.6 billion in 2019 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
As part of an annual look at global AI investment trends, CB Insights today reported that AI startups raised a record $26.6 billion in 2019, spanning more than 2,200 deals worldwide. That’s compared to roughly 1,900 deals totaling $22.1 billion in 2018 and about 1,700 deals totaling $16.8 billion in 2017.
The reported high recorded by CB Insights in the AI in Numbers report is in line with analysis by other organizations keeping an eye on investment in the AI ecosystem. The National Venture Capital Association earlier this month said that although overall venture capital spending took a dip last year, investors spent a record $18.4 billion on AI startups in the United States in 2019.
With investment highest in fields like autonomous driving, drug research, finance, and facial recognition, the AI Index 2019 report released last month found more than $70 billion in global private investment in AI.
Crunchbase also took a look back at 2019 AI startup investment trends and found an increase in investment compared to 2019, while Pitchbook recorded a decrease in both the size and number of deals between 2018 and 2019.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The number of AI startup unicorns also rose in 2019. New unicorns include autonomous delivery company Nuro and business analytics firm DataRobot.
Also new in the CB Insights report: Early-stage deals continue to dominate, with more than 70% of deals going to early-stage or series A funding rounds.
10 companies — including UiPath , Megvii , and Nuro — raised funding rounds higher than $100 million. All 10 companies are based in China, the U.K., or the U.S.
Accounting for $4 billion of the 26.6 billion, health care leads the way in global AI startup deal distribution, followed by industries like finance ($2.2 billion), retail ($1.5 billion), sales, and cybersecurity.
Merger and acquisition activity was also highest in health care, sales, and retail industries.
Venture capital firms like Plug and Play Ventures, Accel, and Lightspeed Ventures are among the VC firms with the most deals in 2019. In corporate venture capital, Intel Capital and Google Ventures topped the number of deals, followed by SBI Investment in Japan. Baidu Ventures in China ranked eighth on the list, followed by Salesforce Ventures.
The number of equity deals with corporate venture capital spending participation has seen a 4 times increase in recent years. In 2014, corporate venture capital was involved in 99 deals, while in 2019 VCs from corporations like Google or Intel were involved in 435 deals.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
