Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Drizly’s booze delivery service expands into Canada, its first international market Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Beer Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Drizly is launching in its first international market today, as the Boston-based startup expands its on-demand booze delivery service to Canada.
Above: Drizly for Android Founded in 2012, Drizly lets you search for and order beer, wine, and spirits to your door within the hour, using nothing but your smartphone. It’s currently available in almost 20 markets across the U.S., and its move across the border into Canada, while a relatively minor maneuver on the surface, is a potent symbolic move nonetheless.
Drizly’s expansion into Edmonton, Alberta, comes as a result of a tie-up with Liquor Stores N.A. (LSNA), one of North America’s biggest liquor retailers and the parent company of Liquor Depot.
“This partnership marks a major milestone in our company’s young history and we look forward to making this service available to Edmonton residents — especially in these colder months,” explained Nick Rellas, CEO and cofounder of Drizly. In other words, people like to get drunk when it’s cold outside.
Today’s news comes just a few hours after New York-based Thirstie acquired DrinkFly to bring a little consolidation to an increasingly fragmented market, with the likes of Minibar , Flaviar , BrewDrop , Ultra , Swill , Sqyre , and Saucey all vying for your hard-earned booze dollars. This is before we mention the likes of Amazon , Postmates , and Instacart , which also offer alcohol delivery services as part of their broader offerings.
Drizly isn’t the first on-demand alcohol service to expand internationally, as Thirstie launched in Canada last October, kicking off with Toronto and Ottawa.
 But Drizly has claimed almost $18 million in funding — among the highest of its many peers in the space — so it’s a notable move from the U.S. company.
Rellas also confirmed to VentureBeat that Drizly has been in discussions with retailers and regulators in additional countries, though there is no timescale on when further international launches may happen.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
