Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages T-Mobile promises faster 5G for ‘thousands’ of locations by 2020’s end Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn T-Mobile radio engineering SVP Mark McDiarmid.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
T-Mobile’s nationwide 5G network has enjoyed the advantage of breadth without the value of depth, covering more than half of the United States with low band 600MHz signals that are in some cases no faster than 4G.
 That’s about to change, the company said today, as it has activated considerably faster 2.5GHz mid band 5G towers in nearly 90 cities and towns and is preparing to reach “thousands more” by the end of 2020. The move could cement T-Mobile’s 5G network as both the nation’s broadest and fastest — a major bragging point for the second- or third-place U.S. carrier.
T-Mobile was among the world’s first carriers to posit a “layer cake” approach to 5G , relying on long-distance but slow 600MHz signals as a blanket-style “coverage layer” everywhere, mid band 2.5GHz to provide faster 5G across most cities and towns, and short distance but fast millimeter wave signals in the most densely populated areas. While it had low and high band spectrum ready to deploy, it had to wait on finalization of its merger with Sprint to acquire and repurpose the 2.5GHz mid band spectrum — a process that it began in earnest earlier this year.
Soon after the merger closed, T-Mobile commenced limited 2.5GHz service in New York City and Philadelphia, later adding Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, Houston, Los Angeles, and Washington D.C. to the list. Today, the list has grown by an additional 81 cities and towns, including a handful of locations in the states of California, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, New York, New Jersey, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, and Virginia, with narrower deployments in Indiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Oregon, Texas, and Washington.
Unlike its 600MHz 5G service, which could peak at around 300Mbps under ideal conditions but commonly delivers 4G-like speeds of only 50Mbps in major cities, T-Mobile’s 2.5GHz 5G promises average speeds of 300Mbps and peak speeds of 1Gbps. That’s up from the 200Mbps average and 600-700Mbps peaks Sprint promised for the same spectrum last year, though performance will vary between locations. Moreover, 2.5GHz signals are capable of penetrating walls and reaching much further than millimeter wave 5G, which so far has been the only version adopted by top U.S. carrier Verizon — a decision that has seriously limited its population coverage.
T-Mobile says it is “on track to light up 1,000 sites per month with 2.5GHz 5G” and will offer the service “in thousands of cities and towns across the country” by the end of 2020, including suburban and rural areas. By comparison, Verizon and AT&T have signaled that they will be bolstering their competing 5G networks with some mix of low and mid band spectrum this year, though T-Mobile says it has nearly 2-3 times as much of that spectrum as AT&T and Verizon, respectively. All three carriers have been active participants in U.S. auctions to acquire more spectrum, “ the mother’s milk of wireless technology ,” in an effort to deliver higher-speed cellular services to customers.
Despite misleading marketing by carriers and 5G standard’s potential for transformatively high bandwidth and network responsiveness , U.S. 5G speeds are currently among the worst in the world.
 5G is widely expected to enable everything from large-scale industrial automation to mixed reality streaming and persistent communications between autonomous vehicles, but that depends heavily on new network hardware.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
