Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Twitter revenue falls 19% in Q2 2020, monetizable users rise 34% Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Twitter's profile page on Twitter.com Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Twitter has reported strong user growth for Q2 2020, even though revenue — which was already widely expected to be down — fell below analysts’ expectations.
The social networking giant announced its most recent financial and user metrics this morning, revealing revenues of $686 million — a year-on-year (YoY) decrease of 19% on the $841 million reported last year and a quarter-on-quarter (QoQ) decrease of around 15% on the $808 million for Q1 2020.
 Twitter also reported an operating loss of $124 million, compared to a $7 million loss for Q1.
Twitter hadn’t provided any guidance ahead of its latest earnings, largely due to the impact COVID-19 is having on a business that relies mostly on advertising dollars. However, the consensus estimate for Twitter’s income was around $708 million.
It’s worth noting that the drop in revenue was more pronounced in Q2 because the global lockdown only really took effect in the last few weeks of the previous quarter.
User growth On a positive note, Twitter reported 186 million “monetizable daily active users” (mDAUs), up 34% on the 139 million it reported for the same period last year and 12% on the 166 million for the previous quarter. Twitter stopped reporting total monthly active users (MAU) last July, choosing instead to focus on an entirely new mDAU metric it defines as individuals who log in through Twitter.com or any of the mobile apps that are able to show advertisements. This excludes those who don’t log in or who use TweetDeck or other third-party clients.
All in all, Twitter’s Q2 2020 story was similar to that of Q1 insofar as engagement was up, with “external factors” such as COVID-19 and other global events driving more frequent users to the platform. “Our work to serve the conversation around COVID-19, to help people find trusted sources of information, to better organize and surface the many topics and interests that bring people to Twitter … helped us serve our larger audience,” Twitter wrote in its shareholder letter.
Last month, Twitter job postings indicated it is working on a new subscription platform as it seeks revenue channels beyond advertising. While the company hasn’t divulged exactly what it has in store, it did mention subscriptions fleetingly in its shareholder letter, confirming that this is still a very early-stage initiative and isn’t expected to generate revenue in 2020.
Finally, CEO Jack Dorsey addressed the recent hack that impacted more than 100 accounts , many of which belonged to high-profile users, such as Elon Musk and Jeff Bezos. Dorsey said the company “moved quickly to address what happened, and [has] taken additional steps to improve resiliency against targeted social engineering attempts.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
