Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Intel shows off DG1 graphics chip for 2021 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Intel DG1 Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Intel showed off its n ot-so-secret graphics processing unit , the DG1, at its press event at CES 2020, the big tech trade show in Las Vegas this week. Intel said that a game running on a big screen was powered by DG1.
Santa Clara, California-based Intel has been trying to move into discrete graphics chips for a long time. Intel makes integrated graphics, which are packaged with other functions and shipped with many low-end PCs. But it has never made the GPUs that gamers and datacenter operators really care about.
Above: Intel CEO Bob Swan at CES 2020.
But that should change by 2021, when Intel starts shipping its Xe DG1, which has been the subject of leaks in recent weeks.
 But Intel executives like Raja Koduri and Jim Keller have been dropping hints for a while that Intel is serious about coming up with better chip designs such as high-end graphics chips.
Of course, Intel didn’t reveal that much. But rivals such as Nvidia and Advanced Micro Devices are busy shipping a lot of discrete GPUs today, and they’re not standing still. Intel’s GPU is likely to target the data center, where graphics chips have made great headway. But maybe one day it will also target gamers, if it becomes competitive enough.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Various analysts said there wasn’t really enough detail for them to talk about Intel’s competitiveness in graphics chips yet. But Intel’s integrated graphics are a huge part of the overall graphics market.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
