Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Canalys: Huawei smartphone sales jump 66% in China as rivals plummet Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Huawei @ MWC 2019 Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Huawei’s impressive growth continues in China, with patriotism likely playing a part in its smartphone sales’ domestic surge.
New figures from Canalys suggest Huawei grew its smartphone sales in China by 66% year-on-year (YoY) for Q3 2019, compared to the 31% growth it reportedly enjoyed in the previous quarter.
Digging down into the numbers also shows the stark contrast between Huawei’s fortunes and those of its main rivals, including Vivo, Oppo, Xiaomi, and Apple, each of which experienced a sharp decrease in sales.
Above: Chinese smartphone shipments growth for Q3 2019 Overall smartphone shipments remained just shy of 98 million for Q3, but Apple’s YoY decline accelerated from -14% in Q2 to -28% for Q3, while Xiaomi’s negative growth went from -20% to -33%.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! By contrast, Huawei seems to be vacuuming up its competitors’ market share, growing from 24.9% to 42.4% over the past year. This also represents a rise of more than 4 percentage points on Q2 2019.
Above: YoY market share and shipments for smartphones in China “Huawei opened a huge gap between itself and other vendors,” noted Canalys VP of mobility Nicole Peng. “It has 25% more share than this quarter’s runner-up, Vivo. Its dominant position gives Huawei a lot of power to negotiate with the supply chain and to increase its wallet share within channel partners.” While it may not be possible to pinpoint all the reasons Huawei is enjoying an uptick in a market that is more broadly in decline , the U.S. decision to place Huawei on a trade blacklist has almost certainly played a part. Many of Huawei’s retail partners in China have launched ad campaigns touting Huawei as “the patriotic choice,” according to Canalys’ Q2 report.
“The U.S.-China trade war is also creating new opportunities,” Canalys analyst Mo Jia said at the time. “Huawei’s retail partners are rolling out advertisements to link Huawei with being the patriotic choice, to appeal to a growing demographic of Chinese consumers willing to take political factors into account when making a purchase decision.” Globally, Huawei recently reported that it had passed 200 million smartphones shipped in 2019, two months earlier than it did last year. However, the full impact of the U.S. trade ban — which prevents Google from offering its version of Android and all of its apps — has yet to kick in. The trade ban only impacts new Huawei devices, and while the company did announce its new high-end Mate 30 series smartphone lineup last month , the devices have yet to go on sale outside of China.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
