Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Ubisoft unveils Far Cry 6 for February 18 launch Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Ubisoft unveiled the first trailer for Far Cry 6 at its Ubisoft Forward event today, announcing that the new installment in the popular series will debut on February 18, 2021.
Word of the game had leaked on the internet, but the launch date is new. Far Cry 6 features actor Giancarlo Esposito, a veteran of shows such as Better Call Saul , Breaking Bad , and The Mandalorian.
The trailer shows a young kid in a presidential palace painting a model car, while the same car burns in the streets as protesters surround the palace and lob fire bombs at the police.
Esposito takes the hands of his son, places a grenade in it, and pulls the plug. The kid’s eyes go wide as Esposito asks the kid to follow him to the roof. As they look down on the crowd, Esposito makes a speech about how he’ll be presidente some day and that the people will attack him and call him a monster. And he asks the boy, “Are you a monster?” And he leaves him to decide whether to throw the grenade down at the crowd. The trailer closes before the boy decides what to do.
The video shows the pretty environments and some of the things you can do. Yep, this is a very much a Far Cry game. CEO Yves Guillemot said the trailer would end the Ubisoft event, but the company would show more games at another Forward in the future.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Ubisoft Forward comes just a day after Guillemot announced major departures and changes related to sexual misconduct allegations at Ubisoft. This started in late June as people came forward and told their stories alleging harassment, misconduct, and more from Ubisoft employees. This statement comes despite having a live show ahead of the presentation.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
