Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple announces September 15 date for Apple Watch and iPad event (updated) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Though this year’s iPhone launches will be delayed by a few weeks relative to their traditional late September street dates, Apple isn’t stopping its annual fall hype train from leaving the station this month. The company announced today that a media event will indeed take place on September 15, roughly a week after its typical iPhone and Apple Watch debuts , setting the stage for new devices to arrive in October. But the event apparently won’t include the new iPhone — it will feature new Apple Watch and iPad models.
Like the company’s WWDC20 developers’ conference , this event will be virtual rather than in-person , livestreamed online for immediate viewing across the globe. The stream will start at 10 a.m. Pacific Time (1 p.m. Eastern) on Apple.com for viewing through browsers, as well as on the TV apps for iOS, iPadOS, and tvOS devices.
The Apple Watch Series 6 is expected to be shown off at the event, including sensor and battery improvements, while a redesigned iPad Air is also likely to be featured. Rumors suggest Apple will also introduce a replacement for the Apple Watch Series 3 that is heavily based on the Apple Watch Series 5, but lacking ECG heart monitoring functionality. Wildcards such as a new Apple TV 4K+ and an Apple Silicon-powered Mac computer might also show up, along with a host of accessories ranging from AirTag object trackers to AirPods Studio headphones.
Some products could be held for a subsequent event in October, or not released at all this year. Apple was expected to use a September event to announce the iPhone 12 family , including two flagship-class iPhone 12 sizes and two premium-class iPhone 12 Pro models, variously differentiated with extra cameras , steel bodies, and faster 5G cellular technologies.
 The new iPhones may see limited or staggered availability due to COVID-19-related production challenges, but they are expected to become widely available in time for the holidays.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The event will also likely confirm the release dates for iOS, iPadOS, and tvOS 14, watchOS 7, and macOS Big Sur , operating systems that were formally introduced at WWDC in June. Last year, Apple offered firm release dates for everything except macOS Catalina, which ultimately lagged the others by several weeks.
Updated at 8:50 a.m. Pacific: This article has been updated to note that the event is now expected to focus on the Apple Watch and iPad rather than the iPhone. While the logo above appeared on Apple’s Special Events page with little description, the company subsequently announced “Time Flies” as its tagline for the event, hinting at the Watch (Time) and iPad Air (Flies) as marquee announcements.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
