Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google Cloud releases COVID-19 data sets to foster coronavirus-fighting AI models Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
In an effort to help fight the spread of the novel coronavirus, which is projected to infect millions of people in the U.S. alone, Google today launched the COVID-19 Public Datasets program, which will host a repository of public data sets that relate to the crisis and make them free to access and analyze. The idea is to remove barriers and to provide researchers access to critical information quickly and easily, eliminating the need to search for and onboard large data files.
The corpora within the COVID-19 Public Datasets program include the Johns Hopkins Center for Systems Science and Engineering (JHU CSSE) data set, Global Health Data from the World Bank, and OpenStreetMap data, all of which are stored for free on Google Cloud. (Google says it’ll reach out to organizations whose data sets are pre-selected for inclusion in the program.) The data sets have a “COVID-19” label, a description, and several sample queries, and they’re searchable from the Google Cloud Console Marketplace and from the BigQuery UI with the tag “freebqcovid.” Researchers can use BigQuery ML, Google’s service that enables users to create and execute machine learning models in BigQuery (a fully managed data warehouse) using SQL queries, to train machine learning models on COVID-19 data sets. Queries are free, and they’ll remain free until September 15. But Google notes that if any of the data sets are joined with non-COVID-19 data sets, the bytes processed will be counted against the free tier — BigQuery Sandbox, which has monthly 10GB storage and 1TB query limits — then charged accordingly, in order to prevent abuse.
“The contents of these datasets are provided to the public strictly for educational and research purposes only, [but] we on the Google Cloud team sincerely hope that the COVID-19 Public Dataset Program will enable better and faster research to combat the spread of this disease,” wrote BigQuery product manager and GIS lead Chad W. Jennings and developer advocate Shane Glass in a blog post.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The debut of the COVID-19 Public Datasets program follows Google’s many other coronavirus mitigation efforts, which are ongoing. The company donated $800 million in ads and loans to organizations fighting the virus, added a coronavirus tips Google Assistant shortcut, and partnered with Microsoft and Palantir to build a dashboard for the U.K.’s National Health Service. Separately, Google launched a dedicated page and search portal to collate resources about COVID-19, and the tech giant’s parent company — Alphabet — ramped up a screening program within the Bay Area.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
