Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Spider-Man: Miles Morales comes to PS5 this holiday Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Surprise! We’re already getting a new Spider-Man game this year, and it’s coming to PlayStation 5 this holiday season. Sony revealed Spider-Man: Miles Morales during its PS5 event today.
 The game stars Mile Morales instead of Peter Parker, although the former can be heard speaking in the reveal trailer.
Miles Morales debuted in the comics in 2011. There, he takes up the mantel of Spider-Man after Peter Parker’s death. The world also became familiar with the character thanks to his starring role in Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse , an animated movie that released in theaters in 2018. Miles Morales was also a supporting character in Insomniac’s last Spider-Man game.
Spider-Man: Miles Morales could be a launch title for PS5, but we do not know what exact date that system is launching. Sony just said “holiday 2020.” Evan Narcisse, who wrote the Rise of the Black Panther comic, is working on the game.
Marvel’s Spider-Man came out for PS4 in 2018. It was a huge hit, selling over 13.2 million copies.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Update 6/12/202 8:20 a.m.: Sony has clarified to The Telegraph that Spider-Man: Miles Morales is a remaster of the last game with the Miles Morales campaign acting as expansion content.
Update 6/12/202 8:50 a.m.: The plot thickens! Now Bloomberg reporter Jason Shreier is saying that Sony tells him that Miles Morales is not an expansion slapped onto a remaster.
NEWS: Spider-Man Miles Morales is *not* an expansion or enhancement or remaster, despite a Sony executive's comments this morning, a source tells Bloomberg News. Nor is it Spider-Man 2. It is a brand-new, standalone game similar in scope to Uncharted Lost Legacy.
— Jason Schreier (@jasonschreier) June 12, 2020 So, honestly, who knows what the game is at this point.
Update 6/12/202 8:55 a.m.: OK, now Insomniac itself is calling Miles Morales a standalone game.
Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales is the next adventure in the Marvel's Spider-Man universe. We will reveal more about this standalone game at a future date.
#MilesMoralesPS5 pic.twitter.com/GOTAvNhUaF — Insomniac Games (@insomniacgames) June 12, 2020 Of course, that still means it could be on the scale of an Uncharted: The Lost Legacy.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
