Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Xbox Game Pass Ultimate gets over 100 Project xCloud games on September 15 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn GamePass with xCloud.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Xbox Game Pass Ultimate subscribers will get access to over 100 games via the Project xCloud streaming service starting September 15, Microsoft announced today.
This means that those paying the $15 a month for Game Pass Ultimate will be able to play these 100-plus Xbox games on their Android phones or tablets, all thanks to cloud gaming technology. This further increases the value of Game Pass Ultimate, which gives members access to a library of downloadable Xbox and PC games. Xbox Games Pass has over 10 million subscribers as of April.
The Project xCloud support will be available in 22 countries, including the U.S. and United Kingdom. Microsoft is committed to adding more titles to the service, and it will have plenty of heavy-hitters in September, such as Ori and the Will of the Wisps , Gears 5, Sea of Thieves, Grounded , Forza Horizon 4, and Wasteland 3.
 Project xCloud will have the same features as on other Xbox platforms, including your friends list, achievements, and saved game progress.
New accessories and peripherals Now that you can play Xbox games on your phone or tablet, Microsoft is also partnering with accessory manufacturers to release a new series of controller peripherals to help you game on those devices.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! This includes an Xbox version of the Razer Kishi, which can expand to fit the traditional Xbox button layout to the sides of your phone. It is available to purchase today and goes for $100.
Above: Accessories can make gaming with xCloud easier.
PowerA will release the MOGA XP5-X Plus, another Xbox-style controller shell for phones, on September 15 for $70. The PowerA MOGA XP7-X Plus is coming out this winter for $100 with a few extra features, including a removable stand for your phone. PowerA is also making the MOGA Mobile Gaming Clip 2, which lets you attach your phone right to an Xbox One controller. That will be available this winter for $15.
8BitDo, which specializes in retro-style controllers, is also making an Xbox-style pad that includes a clip for holding a phone. That will launch on September 21 for $50.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
