Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google’s Stadia Controller is like a chef’s knife Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google Stadia is launching November 19. If you buy the Stadia Founder’s Edition for $129 , you can start streaming games from Google’s cloud directly to your TV.
 In that Founder’s Edition, you get a Chromecast Ultra and the Stadia Controller. And during its Made By Google event today, the company shared more details about how it designed that gamepad.
Google has already revealed that Stadia Controller can connect directly to Wi-Fi to mitigate input lag.
 But it has now explained that it is also prioritizing comfort. To accomplish that, the company’s designers put a lot of effort into creating a controller that works with a variety of different players. That led the designers into unconventional environments looking for inspiration.
The Stadia Controller started as a bent knife handle Google industrial designer Jason Pi found the genesis of the Stadia Controller in professional kitchens.
“I would go to these really nice kitchens, and they all have these simple knives,” said Pi. “None of them looked like grocery store knives with all the grips and details. [Those are] really uncomfortable if you rotate your hand around. The reason why most professional kitchens have knives [with simple handles] is you can use them in many ways.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Pi believed that what works for knives should work for a gamepad. So for the very first iteration of the Stadia Controller, the design team bent a standard knife handle.
“From there, that one ancestor had hundreds and hundreds of kids until it became [what we have today],” said Pi. “It’s made for small and large hands. It’s super usable for a large segment of gamers that aren’t always appreciated.” The final Stadia controller looks a lot like a PlayStation DualShock 4 or Xbox One gamepad. But it also still has the simple, rounded handles that you might expect on a professional kitchen knife. And if that makes it better at accommodating different grip styles, then Google is probably onto something. Maybe next we’ll get a handheld that is more like a cheese grater.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
