Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google has sold 55 million Chromecasts, up from 30 million in July 2016 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Chromecasts compared Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
At its Made by Google hardware event today , Google hardware chief Rick Osterloh announced that the company has sold 55 million Chromecasts , the company’s cheap streaming dongles that let you send music, photos, and videos from your phone to a TV or an external speaker. Google had previously shared it had sold 25 million devices in May 2016 and 30 million in July 2016.
But it’s been more than a year now, so we were due for an update. 55 million is a big milestone, and nothing to scoff at given that the first-generation Chromecast was only released in July 2013. The Chromecast 2 and Chromecast Audio followed in September 2015, and then we got the Chromecast Ultra in November 2016.
The 55 million unit milestone is a difficult number to compare as the Chromecast doesn’t really have a direct competitor. Similar offerings from Apple and Roku are pricier, while Amazon doesn’t report sales numbers for any of its products.
Osterloh today also shared that Google Wifi is the top-selling mesh router and that Google Assistant has gained 100 million new answers in the past year.
As for the Pixel, Osterloh said it also had a good year, and then made a joke about it. “I just wish we had more of them to go around,” he said. In other words, Google isn’t going to share sales numbers for its Pixels, because they’re not very good, just like the Nexus line.
Osterloh set the stage for this year’s Google hardware event by sharing some progress since the first Made by Google event.
 It’s telling that the only real number shared was for a product that didn’t even debut last year, but maybe that was expected.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
