Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Zoom’s daily participants jumped from 10 million to over 200 million in 3 months (Updated) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Dance instructor Anneliese Suda teaches a ballet class through Zoom, April 1, 2020 Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
( Reuters ) — Zoom’s daily users ballooned to more than 200 million in March from a previous maximum total of 10 million, the video conferencing app’s CEO Eric Yuan said on Wednesday, as the company fought to dispel concerns over privacy and “Zoombombing.” Update : Yuan said daily meeting participants, which can be counted multiple times, not daily active users, which cannot.
The use of Zoom and other digital communications has soared with political parties, corporate offices, school districts, organizations, and millions across the world working from home after lockdowns were enforced to slow the spread of the coronavirus.
“To put this growth in context, as of the end of December last year, the maximum number of daily meeting participants, both free and paid, conducted on Zoom was approximately 10 million,” Yuan wrote in a letter to Zoom users on Wednesday.
Yuan said that Zoom usage has taken off over the last few weeks, with more than 90,000 schools across 20 countries using its video conferencing services to conduct classes remotely.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! However, the huge influx of users on its platform has raised a lot of issues for the company — mainly around privacy.
“We recognize that we have fallen short of the community’s — and our own — privacy and security expectations,” Yuan said. “For that, I am deeply sorry.” On Monday, the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Boston office issued a warning about Zoom, telling users not to make meetings on the site public or share links widely after it received two reports of unidentified individuals invading school sessions, a phenomenon known as “Zoombombing.” A couple of days later, Elon Musk’s rocket company SpaceX banned employees from using the Zoom app in a memo seen by Reuters, saying the app had “significant privacy and security concerns.” Yuan acknowledged the problems in his letter saying, “over the next 90 days, we are committed to dedicating the resources needed to better identify, address, and fix issues proactively.” Microsoft’s business-focused Teams app was used by 1.56 million mobile users on Monday, while Slack had less than 500,000 mobile users.
Research firm Apptopia estimated that Zoom’s daily U.S. mobile user volumes rose to a record 4.84 million for the same day.
Shares of Zoom, which had been on a tear this year, have slipped over the last three days, as the company rushes to plug privacy issues plaguing its platform. The stock, which debuted last year at $36, closed down about 6% at $137 on Wednesday.
( Reporting by Subrat Patnaik in Bengaluru, editing by Bernard Orr.
) VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
