Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Disney+ streaming video service launches on November 12 for $7 per month Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Disney+ Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
(Reuters) — Disney unveiled new details on Thursday about Disney+, a family-friendly digital video subscription that is set to debut later this year and compete with Netflix.
The ad-free service will include movies and TV series from Disney and will feature programming from the Marvel superhero universe, the “Star Wars” galaxy, “Toy Story” creator Pixar animation and the National Geographic channel.
It will cost $7 a month or $70 per year.
When the service debuts on Nov. 12, some of the programming available from Disney’s libraries will include: Classic Disney animated movies such as 101 Dalmatians and Bambi The entire Pixar catalog including A Bug’s Life and Cars Captain Marvel and three other Marvel films The first and second Star Wars trilogies Live-action movies such as the Pirates of the Caribbean series, Mary Poppins and The Sound of Music.
More than 5,000 episodes of Disney Channel shows such as Hannah Montana Disney also will create original programming exclusively for the service. According to the company, that will include: Star Wars A new season of animated series Star Wars: The Clone Wars A live-action Star Wars series called The Mandalorian , developed by Jon Favreau A TV series starring Diego Luna that is a prequel to the movie Rogue One: A Star Wars Story Marvel A series focused on the villain Loki, played by Tom Hiddleston A series starring Elizabeth Olsen as Scarlet Witch Animation Monsters at Work , a series inspired by Pixar hit Monsters Inc.
 Billy Crystal and John Goodman will return as the voices of Mike and Sulley.
Movies Remakes of Disney classics such as Lady and the Tramp and Sword in the Stone Noelle , a Christmas fantasy adventure starring Anna Kendrick and Bill Hader Togo , starring Willem Dafoe in a story about a famous sled-dog Television A new High School Musical series Diary of a Female President , a comedy series about a 12-year-old Cuban-American girl on a journey to become president of the United States Non-fiction Marvel’s 616 , a documentary series exploring the intersection between Marvel stories and characters and the real world Be Our Chef , a food competition show in which families compete and the winner’s dish will be served at Walt Disney World Rogue Trip , a travel guide to places an average tourist is least likely to visit (Reporting by Lisa Richwine; Editing by Lisa Shumaker and Leslie Adler) VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
