Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages HTC releases Vive Pro Eye in North America for $1,599 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn HTC Vive Pro Eye.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Having already released Vive Pro Eye in China and Europe , HTC today began selling the enterprise-class virtual reality headset in North America, and there’s one surprise: It starts at $1,599 (U.S.), rather than its roughly $2,000 price elsewhere. But there may be other costs for U.S. and Canadian customers to consider.
Featuring OLED screen technology running at a 2,880 x 1,600 pixel resolution, Vive Pro Eye is an upgrade to HTC’s standard Vive Pro , differentiated largely by Tobii eye-tracking hardware and support for foveated rendering.
 The headset is bundled with two of HTC’s 2018 hand controllers and two tracking base stations, but developers can create apps that you substantially control with your eyes, moving cursors and selecting items just by gazing.
The new headset’s base $1,599 price includes everything mentioned above, plus a link box, DisplayPort cable, USB 3 cable, and necessary power adapters, as well as cleaning and earphone adjustment parts. Tax isn’t included, which will drive the price up somewhat, but shipping is free. If that sounds too expensive to purchase in one shot, HTC has teamed up with PayPal to offer Vive Pro Eye on a 24-month installment plan for around $73 per month, or $1,746 over 2 years.
Another semi-optional expense is the Vive Pro Eye Advantage services package for enterprises, which costs £198 ($252) in Europe and $200 in North America. It adds a two-year warranty, 24-hour email response guarantee, and expedited repairs to the hardware bundle; HTC recommends it to enterprise customers but doesn’t emphasize it as much as it did during the European and Chinese launches.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The Vive Pro Eye is in stock now for immediate shipping and can be ordered here.
 Users who don’t need the eye-tracking hardware will get an otherwise identical experience from the less expensive standard Vive Pro, which sells for $1,399 — or $200 less.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
