Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google Pixel Buds tap AI to alert users to sirens, crying babies, and barking dogs Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google Pixel Buds Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google Pixel Buds can now alert you to the sounds of a crying baby, barking dog, or the siren of an emergency vehicle when you’re listening to something and may not otherwise hear the sound. The feature reduces the volume of whatever music or podcast you’re listening to and plays a chime sound to signal an alert. Attention Alerts is part of an AI-powered experimental feature being added to Google’s flagship earbuds today in a larger firmware update.
Google trained AI systems to recognize the trio of sounds by scraping audio from publicly available videos, a company spokesperson told VentureBeat.
Amazon’s Echo speakers have the ability to detect sounds that may be important in a home setting, like alarms, breaking glass, or sounds indicating someone is in your home when you’re away.
Pixel Buds are also getting a more powerful way to translate languages today. They are now able to use Transcribe mode on Google Translate with a voice command, starting with English translations for French, German, Italian, and Spanish speakers. Google also introduced voice commands to turn off earbud touch control and check earbud battery levels today. Conversation mode translations can be helpful, but since they only last a few seconds, they’re not always practical in an actual conversation, where people can speak uninterrupted for longer periods of time. A Google spokesperson told VentureBeat that Transcribe supports listening for up to a couple of hours. Transcribe mode for the Google Translate app launched in March.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Also new today is a feature that recognizes when you’re sharing an earbud with another person. And you can now use Find My Device to get the last known location of your Pixel Buds. Features like the ability to lower volume in loud places, Attention Alerts, and extensive translations are powered by a series of microphones on the exterior of each earbud.
Google made Pixel Buds 2 available for $179 in April.
 To justify a price tag slightly higher than that of other popular choices, like Samsung Galaxy Buds or Apple AirPods, Pixel Buds launched with unique features, such as the ability to automatically turn up the volume when the surrounding environment gets noisy, hands-free access to Google Assistant, and conversation mode to power quick translations.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
