Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages The RetroBeat: Nintendo 64 Classic could tout 20 great games without Rare Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Nintendo 64 still used cartridges at a time when its competitors switched to disks.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
It’s January, but I’m already thinking about Fall. Last September, Nintendo released the SNES Classic Edition.
 The November before that, we got the NES Classic Edition.
 It makes sense to expect a Nintendo 64 Classic Edition this year.
It would certainly be a hit. The SNES and NES Classics were huge sellers, both managing to top monthly sales charts.
 As for the Nintendo 64, Nineties kids grew up with Nintendo’s third major home console. Over the holidays, retro game stores reported that the N64 was their best-selling old console.
 The system is home to some of Nintendo’s biggest classics ever, including Super Mario 64 and The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time.
But can Nintendo put together a big enough library to make the mini-console enticing? The NES Classic has 30 games. The SNES Classic has 21. You might think Nintendo should have no problem putting together at least that many, but the prospect faces a few challenges.
Rare is the biggest problem. During the N64 era, this Nintendo-owned studio made many of the console’s most popular games, such as Banjo-Kazooie, Conker’s Bad Fur Day, and Perfect Dark. But Microsoft now owns Rare, and Nintendo doesn’t own the rights to the games the studio made that didn’t feature established Nintendo characters. In other words, anything that wasn’t a Donkey Kong game. Microsoft has already released Rare Replay for the Xbox One, a collection that includes most of Rare’s Nintendo 64 games.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Above: Banjo-Kazooie in Rare Replay.
The Nintendo 64 also has a big third-party problem. Unlike with the NES or SNES, third parties weren’t making many games for the system. Franchises like Final Fantasy jumped ship to PlayStation. And when a classic property, like Castlevania, did get a Nintendo 64 game, it … well, it sucked.
And then you have Goldeneye. This shooter has a double-whammy of issues preventing it from easily appearing on a Nintendo 64 Classic Edition. Rare made it, and it’s a licensed game. The NES and SNES Classic Editions didn’t include any licensed titles. It creates too much expense and legal trouble to do so. That also means no Star Wars games like Rogue Squadron. It also makes wrestling hits like WWF No Mercy unlikely.
So, what does that leave Nintendo with? I’m going to go ahead and see if I can put together a list of at least 20 games for a Nintendo 64 Classic. I’m going to try to mold my list after the ones on the NES and SNES Classics, focusing on games that have at least some renown for quality and not including more than three entries in a single series. I’ll try to have as many genres represented as possible.
Super Mario 64 The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time The Legend of Zelda: Majora’s Mask Kirby 64: The Crystal Shards Yoshi’s Story Paper Mario Mario Kart 64 Mario Party Mario Golf Mario Tennis Super Smash Bros.
Donkey Kong 64 Diddy Kong Racing Star Fox 64 Pokémon Snap Pokémon Puzzle League F-Zero X Pilot Wings 64 Wave Race 64 1080 Snowboarding Hey, look at that! Even without Rare, licensed game, or third-party titles, Nintendo can come up with 20 good games for a Nintendo 64 Classic Edition. Actually, when I look at it, it’s a pretty great list. You have the big single-player classics in Mario and Zelda, racing games with Wave Race 64 and F-Zero X, 2D platformers with Yoshi and Kirby, sports games with 1080 Snowboarding, Mario Gold, and Mario Tennis, a fun fighting game with Super Smash Bros., and puzzle action with Pokémon Puzzle League.
Above: 1080 Snowboarding was one of greatest extreme sports games ever.
The list also does a good job highlighting the Nintendo 64’s biggest strength: four-player couch co-op. Even without Goldeneye or the classic wrestling games, the list has a lot of great multiplayer support. And just as the SNES Classic included two controllers, it would make sense for a Nintendo 64 Classic to have four.
And while the Nintendo 64 didn’t have many great third-party games, it did have some good ones that could make the list. Bomberman 64 had the series’ classic multiplayer with a surprisingly interesting single-player campaign. And if you really want a first-person shooter on the system, I’m sure Nintendo could get one of the old Turok games. I think Disney owns the rights to the series now (a fact I bet Disney isn’t even aware of anymore). I can’t imagine they’re going to play too hard-to-get over Turok.
I have to admit, I’m usually not a big a proponent of the Nintendo 64. I’m more of a Super Nintendo or, heck, even GameCube guy. When I came with the idea for this week’s RetroBeat, I expected to have different results. I thought I’d discover that it was impossible to make a plausible list of 20 games for a Nintendo 64 Classic.
But now that I’ve done, I look at the theoretical device and know that I would happily buy one. And I bet consumers would be able to get over the lack of Goldeneye and buy plenty of them too.
The RetroBeat is a weekly column that looks at gaming’s past, diving into classics, new retro titles, or looking at how old favorites — and their design techniques — inspire today’s market and experiences. If you have any retro-themed projects or scoops you’d like to send my way, please contact me.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
