Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Qualcomm reveals 5G-ready Snapdragon 865, 765, and 765G Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Qualcomm's new Snapdragon 765 and 865 processors are shown next to a U.S. penny coin.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Qualcomm’s annual Tech Summit is underway right now in Maui, Hawaii, and as expected, the company is teasing some major new chipsets: the flagship-class Snapdragon 865 and two variations on a midrange option, called the Snapdragon 765 and 765G. The new chips were introduced on stage by Alex Katouzian, Qualcomm’s general manager for mobile.
While full details will be made public tomorrow, the collective aim of the mobile chips is to “lead and scale 5G and AI in 2020.” Qualcomm will offer 5G phone makers the choice between bleeding edge performance or more affordable options, including one designed to appeal to gamers.
The most widely anticipated chipset is the Snapdragon 865, which the company is simply billing as “the world’s most advanced 5G platform,” designed for flagship smartphones and other devices. Notably, while the 865 promises “unmatched connectivity,” Qualcomm says that the platform includes the company’s standalone Snapdragon X55 5G Modem and RF System rather than a fully integrated modem, and will deliver “truly global 5G.” This suggests that 5G won’t be a mandatory feature for Snapdragon 865 products. It could also give Qualcomm the opportunity to offer an upgraded 5G modem, whenever one is announced in the future. Unlike flagship Snapdragon CPUs, the company has no specific cadence for modem announcements; it introduced the Snapdragon X55 in mid-February 2019 and its predecessor X50 in October 2016. A third-generation modem is known to be in the works, but performance details are fuzzy at best.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Additional Snapdragon 865 features teased without details include 8K video capture and gigapixel image processing speeds. There will also be a fifth-generation AI engine with natural language processing abilities, and 15 trillion operations per second (TOPS).
By comparison, the Snapdragon 765 and 765G are said to include “integrated 5G connectivity” and “advanced AI processing,” with differentiated Snapdragon Elite Gaming experiences. The “G” designation hints that 765G will be a higher performer for gaming devices, akin to this year’s mid-cycle Snapdragon 855+ , which powered several gaming phones.
Additionally, Qualcomm revealed that the 765 chips will have an integrated Snapdragon X52 modem with up to 3.7Gbps downloads, supporting both sub-6GHz and millimeter wave networks. This is notably slower than the peak speeds of Snapdragon X55 modems, but a lot faster than top 4G modems. There will also be a 5 TOPS version of the fifth-generation AI chip, as well as 4K HDR video capture.
Qualcomm will be sharing full details on the 865, 765, and 765G platforms tomorrow, and we’ll be covering the announcements live. The company expects to offer a stream of the reveals here.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
