Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages The RetroBeat: Sony recommits to 3D platformers with PlayStation 5 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart is going to define the PS5 generation.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The Playstation 5 isn’t retro. Heck, it’s the opposite. The system isn’t even out yet. Still, this week’s PS5 reveal was giving me some nostalgic vibes, and it’s all because of the focus on specific genre: 3D platformers.
Games that focus on cute characters jumping their way through colorful levels in 3D spaces used to a big part of the PlayStation platform. Series like Crash Bandicoot and Spyro the Dragon helped to establish the PlayStation brand. 3D platformers were even more important on PlayStation 2 thanks to franchises like Jak & Daxter, Sly Cooper, and Ratchet & Clank.
Ratchet & Clank still had a strong presence on PS3, but it was clear that we were out of the golden age of 3D platformers. Jak & Daxter developer Naughty Dog put its attention to third-person action games like Uncharted and The Last of Us. Sly Cooper studio Sucker Punch created the open-world franchise Infamous. Even Insomniac, which still made plenty of Ratchet & Clank games for PS3, split its focus to a new first-person shooter series, Resistance.
Things felt more dire on PS4. Sure, we got one more Ratchet & Clank game and the excellent Astro Bot: Rescue Mission (which you need VR to experience), but most of Sony’s big exclusives were open-world and third-person action games. Except for Knack, which is kind of a platformer … I think.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Cute characters welcome That’s why I’m so happy that Sony showed off so many 3D platformers during its PS5 event. The new Ratchet & Clank, Rift Apart , looks fantastic. It’s the strongest showpiece for next gen hardware yet, with its colorful world filled with movement and action. Seeing Ratchet travel through different worlds via portals with just a second or two or travelling time also shows how the faster loading of the solid-state drive can actually make games more interesting.
While many expected a new Ratchet & Clank, I don’t think folks were planning on an Astro Bot sequel. And unlike the original, Astro’s Playroom won’t require VR. I’m so excited for more people to get to try out the fun and joyful gameplay that I experienced in Rescue Mission.
And that wasn’t the only surprise. LittleBigPlanet’s Sackboy is getting his own game. Instead of a 2D platformer with an emphasis on making your own levels, Sackboy: A Big Adventure looks to focus on 3D platforming (alone or with up to three friends). As someone who never liked LittleBigPlanet’s creation tools but found the Sackboy character undearing, I think that this is great.
I’m hoping that this is just the start of 3D platforming on PS5. The successful Crash Bandicoot and Spyro remakes opened everyone’s eyes to how great (and profitable) these games can be. I want Sony to keep investing in new games, and I also hope that we see some other classics get fancy remakes (that Ape Escape trilogy is just waiting).
The RetroBeat is a weekly column that looks at gaming’s past, diving into classics, new retro titles, or looking at how old favorites — and their design techniques — inspire today’s market and experiences. If you have any retro-themed projects or scoops you’d like to send my way, please contact me.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
