Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Call of Duty League resumes online-only esports tournaments starting April 10 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Call of Duty League resumes online events on April 10.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The Call of Duty League has shifted away from live events, but it will resume online-only esports tournaments starting April 10.
Activision said that the online-only approach will deliver competitive entertainment for fans in a way that’s safe for its global community. The league announced on March 12 that it would shift online, and now the new schedule has been cemented. You can read it here.
Starting Friday, April 10, the regular season will continue in a fully online production and competition format, where fans can still follow their favorite teams broadcast live on YouTube.com/CODLeague.
Above: Call of Duty League 2020 season opener.
“I spent many years at the NFL, and saw firsthand how sports can lift the human spirit,” said commissioner Johanna Faries in a statement. “No one wants to be in this situation, but we are, and we’re thankful that Call of Duty League can forge ahead and deliver live competition to fans when it’s probably needed most.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Earlier this year the Call of Duty League debuted 12 city-based teams across four countries, with Call of Duty athletes competing live before thousands of fans. But since the pandemic hit, live esports events have been banned like other large gatherings in most countries. But players can still fight each other online, and audiences can view those events.
On April 10, YouTube will begin airing live broadcasts in events dubbed Home Series Weekends. Competition will span three days, kicking off Friday (April 10) with group stage play, followed by knockout and semifinals matches on Saturday (April 11), ending with marquee championship matchups on Sunday (April 12) for the ultimate prize of the first Call of Duty League Champion.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
