Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Seebo raises $9 million for AI tools that spot and fix manufacturing inefficiencies Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Seebo cofounders Lior and Liran Akavia.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Seebo , a company designing manufacturing tools that predict and prevent industrial disruptions, has raised $9 million. A spokesperson says the funding will be used to further develop Seebo’s AI technology and expand its roster of clients.
Due to inefficiencies in the production process, large manufacturers suffer tens to hundreds of thousands of dollars in losses each year. Companies lose 20% to 30% in revenue due to inefficiencies alone, according to IDC. Seebo aims to help solve this with predictive algorithms that recommend remediation steps.
Seebo’s platform integrates manufacturing processes with AI and machine learning. Leveraging an enterprise-tailored approach to feature engineering, it translates data from these processes into visual insights delivered to operators and shift managers, quality control and maintenance engineers, and management.
It’s a pivot from Seebo’s business model four years ago, which offered companies an end-to-end platform to design, validate, and launch smart devices using a set of drag-and-drop tools. Although Seebo achieved a measure of success in industries ranging from health and wellness to fashion, it recently broadened its focus to address a greater range of industrial use cases.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Seebo adopts a “digital twin” approach to simulation — an approach that has gained currency in other domains. For instance, London-based SenSat helps clients in construction, mining, energy, and other industries create models of locations for projects they’re working on, translating the real world into a version that can be understood by machines. GE offers technology that allows companies to model digital twins of actual machines and closely track performance. Oracle has services that rely on virtual representations of objects, equipment, and work environments. And Microsoft itself provides Azure Digital Twins and Project Bonsai, both of which model the relationships and interactions between people, places, and devices in simulated environments.
But Seebo claims its customers — which include Barilla, Nestle, Mondelez, PepsiCo, Allnex, and Volkswagen — can create digital twin prototypes in record time, often within two weeks or less. Seebo also says its solutions take a more holistic view than most, aggregating data from the production line (including from automated quality inspection systems) and applying process-based AI to predict and help prevent issues that drive scrap and rework.
Seebo accounts for production flows and raw materials, in addition to the products actually being manufactured. It creates a virtual map of production lines to contextualize predictive alerts, events, and historical data. Employing predictive simulation allows process engineers to simulate how a production process will behave in different scenarios (and whether process inefficiencies will be avoided).
Seebo says that for one manufacturing customer, it was able to trace broken wafers to high oven temperatures and abnormal jumps in conveyor belt speed. Based on this, the company’s operational team used Seebo’s products to create quality alerts to avoid blockages and maintain quality standards.
Ofek Ventures led the $9 million investment in Seebo, with participation from Vertex Ventures and existing investors Viola Ventures and TPY Capital. The round brings the company’s total raised to $31 million.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
