Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple warns developers to get apps Notarized against malware threats Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
After announcing Notarized apps at a security-focused session at the 2018 Worldwide Developers Conference , Apple is today telling developers to submit their apps for notarization — a currently optional but soon to be mandatory step for non-App Store software from known developers, designed to protect both users and developers from malware.
As of now, Apple’s Gatekeeper serves as a barrier to app installation, presenting users with a dialog box that flags each app as potentially untrustworthy before allowing users to manually install it. Apps from developers with Apple developer ID certificates are considered more trustworthy by Gatekeeper, but the next stage is app-specific trust verification.
Notarization is exclusive to the recently released macOS Mojave, and provides an assurance that the specific download — not just the developer — has been checked for malware. Developers submit their apps to Apple for notarization, and each specific app release gets notarized to indicate that it’s malware-free. When users first try to open notarized apps, Apple notes that “they’ll see a more streamlined Gatekeeper dialog and have confidence that it is not known malware.” Developers also get another advantage: If a problem is found in a specific app build, Apple can simply pull that build’s notarization rather than yanking the developer’s trust certificate altogether. Apple has said that the notarization process is solely a security check and not an app review, which hopefully means that developers won’t encounter unreasonable delays.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! For now, non-App Store apps don’t require notarization, but that’s going to change. “In an upcoming release of macOS,” Apple says, “Gatekeeper will require Developer ID signed software to be notarized by Apple.” In other words, while this won’t stop unknown developers from trying to slip malware into apps, it will increase the likelihood that non-App Store apps from trusted developers will be safe, and may push more developers to distribute through the App Store instead.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
