Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Why Apple killed the iPhone headphone jack Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Apple has an adapter for the headphone jack to plug into lightning connectors.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Headphone jacks seem like something sacred on our mobile devices. But Apple’s Phil Schiller explained why Apple decided to make its iPhone 7 smartphone without it.
Schiller, the senior vice president of worldwide marketing at Apple, said that “courage to move on” was one of those reasons, as Apple engineers decided they could take technology forward if they got rid of the antiquated analog audio connector.
Apple also saw that it could use the digital audio feature of the lightning connector (which you use to charge the smartphone) to deliver better quality.
But Schiller also said that Apple engineers saw that space was at a premium inside the device, with two cameras and other high-end technology vying for room in the packed enclosure. There was no room left for an antiquated connector that takes up a lot of space.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Lastly, Apple introduced its AirPods, which are wireless headphones that take up a lot less space and don’t have wires that get all tangled up.
“We have a vision for how audio should work on mobile devices — wireless,” Schiller said.
And for those who don’t want to move to the new gadgets, you can use an adapter that plugs an old headphone into the lightning connector.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
