Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google taps computer vision to improve robot manipulation performance Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
In a preprint paper , a Google and MIT team investigate whether pretrained visual representations can be used to improve a robot’s object manipulation performance. They say their proposed technique — affordance-based manipulation — can enable robots to learn to pick and grasp objects in less than 10 minutes of trial and error, which could lay the groundwork for highly adaptable warehouse robots.
Affordance-based manipulation is a way to reframe a manipulation task as a computer vision task. Rather than referencing pixels to object labels, it associates pixels with the value of actions. Since the structure of computer vision models and affordance models are relatively similar, techniques from transfer learning can be applied to computer vision to enable affordance models to learn faster with less data — or so the thinking goes.
To test this, the team injected the “backbones” — i.e., the weights (or variables) responsible for early-stage image processing, like filtering edges, detecting corners, and distinguishing between colors — of various popular computer vision models into affordance-based manipulation models pretrained on vision tasks. They then tasked a real-world robot with learning to grasp a set of objects through trial and error.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Initially, there weren’t significant performance gains compared with training the affordance models from scratch. However, upon transferring weights from both the backbone and the head (which consists of weights used in latter-stage processing, such as recognizing contextual cues and executing spatial reasoning) of a pretrained vision model, there was a substantial improvement in training speed. Grasping success rates reached 73% in just 500 trial and error grasp attempts and jumped to 86% by 1,000 attempts. And on new objects unseen during training, models with the pretrained backbone and head generalized better, with grasping success rates of 83% with the backbone alone and 90% with both the backbone and head.
According to the team, reusing weights from vision tasks that require object localization (e.g., instance segmentation) significantly improved the exploration process when learning manipulation tasks. Pretrained weights from the tasks encouraged the robot to sample actions on things that look more like objects, thereby quickly generating a more balanced data set from which the system could learn the differences between good and bad grasps.
“Many of the methods that we use today for end-to-end robot learning are effectively the same as those being used for computer vision tasks,” wrote the study’s coauthors. “Our work here on visual pretraining illuminates this connection and demonstrates that it is possible to leverage techniques from visual pretraining to improve the learning efficiency of affordance-based manipulation applied to robotic grasping tasks. While our experiments point to a better understanding of deep learning for robots, there are still many interesting questions that have yet to be explored. For example, how do we leverage large-scale pretraining for additional modes of sensing (e.g. force-torque or tactile)? How do we extend these pretraining techniques toward more complex manipulation tasks that may not be as object-centric as grasping? These areas are promising directions for future research.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
