Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google open-sources its differential privacy library Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Google today released the open source version of the differential privacy library used in some its core products, such as Google Maps. Any organization or developer can now check out the library on GitHub.
Differential privacy limits the algorithms used to publish aggregate information about a statistical database. Whether you are a city planner, small business owner, or software developer, chances are you want to gain insights from the data of your citizens, customers, or users. But you don’t want to lose their trust in the process. Differentially private data analysis enables organizations to learn from the majority of their data without allowing any single individual’s data to be distinguished or re-identified.
“If you are a health researcher, you may want to compare the average amount of time patients remain admitted across various hospitals in order to determine if there are differences in care,” Google product manager Miguel Guevara explains. “Differential privacy is a high-assurance, analytic means of ensuring that use cases like this are addressed in a privacy-preserving manner.” Differential privacy library features Google promises its library is easy for developers to deploy. It can help you perform functions that are difficult to execute from scratch, “like automatically calculating bounds on user contributions,” Guevera says. Key features include: VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Statistical functions: Most common data science operations (counts, sums, averages, medians, and percentiles) are supported.
Rigorous testing: Besides an extensive test suite, an extensible “Stochastic Differential Privacy Model Checker library” helps prevent mistakes.
Ready to use: A PostgreSQL extension, along with common recipes, is included.
Modular: The library can be extended to include other functionalities, such as additional mechanisms, aggregation functions, or privacy budget management.
This isn’t Google’s first differential privacy rodeo, but the company has been particularly busy in the space this year. In March, Google released TensorFlow Privacy and TensorFlow Federated.
 In June, the company open-sourced Private Join and Compute , which gives companies data insights while preserving privacy. To learn more about Google’s approach, check out the team’s technical paper on arXiv.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
