Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple gives a glimpse into its artificial intelligence efforts Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Apple is lifting the veil on some of its work in the red-hot field of artificial intelligence.
The consumer technology giant debuted Wednesday a website that highlights the company’s various AI-related research projects. Named the Apple Machine Learning Journal, the tech giant is pitching it as a way for people to read about the work of its various engineers working on cutting-edge AI techniques like deep learning.
Ruslan Salakhutdinov, Apple’s director of AI research, announced the debut of the website via Twitter. Apple hired Salakhutdinov, who is also a Carnegie Mellon University associate professor specializing in machine learning, in October amid an increasing push by big tech companies like Google that are hiring AI experts from academia.
Very excited for the launch of Apple’s Machine Learning blog: https://t.co/SLDpnhwgT5.
 Check it out! — Russ Salakhutdinov (@rsalakhu) July 19, 2017 VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Apple currently lists only one research project on the new website, which appears to be a rewritten version of a research paper published in the fall. Unlike the original research paper, Apple has removed the names of the researchers who worked on the paper for the revised version now posted on the Apple Machine Learning Journal.
The website’s first post shows how Apple is researching how to teach computers to recognize faces by “training” them on images of computer-generated faces rather than pictures of actual human faces. Apple, which has stricter user privacy rules than companies like Google and Facebook, could benefit from this research if it could create AI systems that do not require as much personal data for training.
With the new website, Apple joins other big tech companies like Google, Facebook, and Microsoft that maintain blogs highlighting how they are researching or using AI technologies in their products. Besides functioning as a way to publicly demonstrate that these companies are using cutting-edge tech, these research blogs also function as recruiting tools for machine-learning specialists.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
