Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Facebook cancels its 2020-2021 AI Residency program due to coronavirus Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Facebook today announced that it plans to cancel its 2020-2021 in-person AI Residency program as a result of the novel coronavirus pandemic. In a statement provided to VentureBeat via email, Facebook vice president of AI Jerome Pesenti said that the decision was motivated by health and safety concerns.
“We continue to put the health and safety of our community first as we respond to changes caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result, we have decided not to move forward with the 2020-2021 AI Residency Program,” Pesenti said. “An optimal and consistent hands-on residency experience is critically important to the program’s success, and this isn’t possible in a remote format. We look forward to keeping in touch with this year’s candidates for future opportunities.” When asked why the program was canceled outright rather than delayed, a Facebook spokesperson said this could have created timing conflicts with students’ graduation dates, Ph.D. applications, and academic conference deadlines. They added that current residents’ programs will be extended to help give them additional time to finish their research, and that Facebook remains committed to offering residencies where and when it’s possible to do so.
Facebook’s AI Residency program is a paid one-year position that pairs applicants with a Facebook AI researcher and an engineer. With the team, residents pick a research problem of mutual interest and devise new machine learning techniques to solve it. Facebook encourages collaborations beyond the assigned mentors and ensures the research is communicated to the academic community, chiefly by submitting papers to academic venues like NeurIPS, ICLR, and CVPR as well as open source code releases and/or Facebook products.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Facebook isn’t alone in offering an AI residency program, though it’s one of the few that prohibits remote participation. OpenAI, Google, IBM, and Microsoft, among others, provide opportunities for students and professionals to conduct research alongside programmers, data scientists, and product managers.
The pandemic has impacted a number of Facebook’s operations, including physical events and work out of its offices globally. In April, the company said it would refrain from hosting conferences with 50 or more people through at least June 2021, and it continues to allow full-time employees to work from home.
In a blog post published in March, Facebook Research director Daron Green said the company was “planning new ways” to foster its online research community and support remote collaboration and networking, for example through Q&As with researchers and facilitated virtual networking. “We are dedicated to continuing our research activities and specifically our external academic investments, despite the challenges we are all facing,” he wrote. “These investments include conference sponsorships, requests for proposals, our fellowship program, university lab investments, and sponsored research.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
