Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple will miss Q2 2020 revenue projection due to coronavirus impacts Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Totalee is one of many companies now offering attractively minimalist Qi wireless chargers that work with iPhones.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Less than a month ago, Apple reported a record first quarter with revenues of $91.8 billion for the holiday season, and predicted second fiscal quarter revenues in the $63 billion to $67 billion range. Today, the company warned investors that it will fall short of that guidance due to impacts of the COVID-19 coronavirus on both iPhone manufacturing and overall Apple sales in China.
According to Apple, “worldwide iPhone supply will be temporarily constrained” due to a slower than expected resumption of manufacturing following the Lunar New Year holiday. Additionally, the company says that its own and partner retail locations in China have been either closed or operating in limited fashion, including “very low customer traffic.” This is the second China-related revenue downgrade warning Apple has issued to investors during the first calendar quarter of a year. In January 2019, the company slashed estimates for the 2018 holiday quarter following a dramatic decline in Chinese sales and slower-than-expected iPhone upgrades.
Unlike the prior announcement, however, Apple declined to offer a revised projection for its Q2 2020 revenues. The January 2019 announcement cut an $89-$93 billion projection down to $84 billion, jolting the company’s stock. More recently, Apple CEO Tim Cook and CFO Luca Maestri characterized the upcoming quarter’s $63-$67 billion range as atypically wide to take the coronavirus’ potential impact into account , but hinted that the health situation might have deeper impacts.
Nearly 1,800 people have died from the coronavirus, which has infected over 71,000 people, largely centered in and around Wuhan, China. Prior to today’s Apple announcement, the pandemic has already had multiple impacts on the tech industry, ranging from the cancellation of the mobile trade show MWC 2020 to announcements of reduced revenue projections from component makers.
Apple says that it is more than doubling its previously announced donations to support public health initiatives against the disease, and remains primarily concerned for the health and well-being of its employees, contractors, and customers. The company says that the rest of its demand outside of China has been “strong to date and in line with our expectations,” characterizing the disruption as an “only temporary” speed bump for a “fundamentally strong” company.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
