Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Some essential reading and research on race and technology Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn At this extraordinary moment in U.S. history, the evils of racism are on full display. It’s no secret that technology has played a role in enabling racism to foment and spread. This is an ideal time to read, listen, and learn. Below are many resources — research, articles, and books — that speak to the intersection of race and bias in technology, particularly in the field of AI. These are a starting point for the education that all responsible citizens should acquire.
Gender Shades — Landmark work from Joy Buolamwini, Dr. Timnit Gebru, Dr. Helen Raynham, and Deborah Raji that examines how facial recognition systems perform on different genders and races.
Voicing Erasure — A spoken word piece inspired by research led by Allison Koenecke that demonstrates how five popular speech recognition systems perform worst on African American Vernacular English speakers.
AI Now’s Algorithmic Accountability Policy Toolkit — A resource from the AI Now Institute “geared toward advocates interested in understanding government use of algorithmic systems,” per the organization’s website.
NIST study evaluates effects of race, age, sex on face recognition software — A report from the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), part of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
StereoSet: A measure of bias in language models — Work from MIT that “measures racism, sexism, and otherwise discriminatory behavior in a model, while also ensuring that the underlying language model performance remains strong.” Discriminating systems: Gender, race, and power in AI — Research from the AI Now Institute that examines the scope and scale of the diversity crisis in AI.
The future of work in black America — A report from McKinsey that looks at how automation may be widening the wealth gap between black families and white families in the United States.
Advancing racial literacy in tech — Work from the Data & Society project by Dr. Jessie Daniels, Mutale Nkonde, and Dr. Darakhshan Mir explains why “ethics, diversity in hiring, and implicit bias training aren’t enough” to establish real racial literacy in the tech world.
Machine bias — A Pro Publica article that exposes how predictive algorithms in the criminal justice system are biased against black people.
Technological elites, the meritocracy, and postracial myths in Silicon Valley — A book chapter in which Dr. Safiya Noble and Dr. Sarah Roberts explore “some of the ways in which discourses of Silicon Valley technocratic elites bolster investments in post-racialism as a pretext for reconsolidations of capital, in opposition to public policy commitments to end discriminatory labor practices,” per the abstract.
Some key books to read on the subject of race and technology include Algorithms of Oppression by Dr. Safiya Noble; Race After Technology by Ruha Benjamin; Technicolor: Race, Technology, and Everyday Life by Alondra Nelson; Race, Rhetoric, and Technology by Dr. Adam J. Banks; and Artificial Unintelligence: How Computers Misunderstand the World by Meredith Broussard.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
