Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages AI Foundation raises $10 million to launch products that benefit humanity Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
The AI Foundation today announced the closure of a $10 million funding round to commercialize products that benefit humanity.
AI Foundation declined to go into details about the kinds of products it plans to commercialize, but said they will be aligned with the company’s mission to democratize and decentralize artificial intelligence, CEO Lars Buttler told VentureBeat in a phone interview.
The AI Foundation’s first product, released recently, called Reality Defender, combines human moderation and machine learning to identify malicious content meant to deceive people such as deepfakes.
“We think this is going to be a huge problem going forward,” Buttler said.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Created in 2017 and operated in stealth until recently, the AI Foundation attempts to be both a commercial and social venture with a mission to create personalized AI that can be used by all people.
To this end, the AI Foundation created its own Global AI Council that attempts to anticipate and counteract the negative effects of AI.
“What can go wrong in the short term? Meaning literally in the next year, five years, existing AI technology — not talking about general AI where the world might end, it’s all about existing technology,” he said. “How can it be used to improve people’s lives in a dramatic way and what tools and products can we develop in the short term that can actually work and counteract things?” Founders Fund partner Cyan Banister and You & Mr. Jones founder David Jones will join the AI Foundation’s board of directors, while Twitter cofounder Biz Stone has joined the Global AI Council.
The $10 million round was led by You & Mr. Jones and Founders Fund with participation from Endeavor and Biz Stone, among others.
The AI Foundation is based in San Francisco and currently has 25 employees.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
