Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages China Mobile leaks cheap 5G plans with data caps and 3 speed tiers Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn China Mobile is a Chinese state-owned telecommunication company providing mobile voice and multimedia services.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
China’s launch of commercial 5G services has been one of the year’s more unusual stories: A national multi-carrier rollout that was planned for October 1 shifted to November 1, and the top three carriers reportedly preregistered 10 million 5G customers before revealing service prices. Now one of the carriers appears to have leaked pricing plans, and they’re surprisingly aggressive, signaling China’s interest in establishing itself as a huge market for 5G hardware and services.
According to details posted by the Chengdu branch of China Mobile (via cnBeta ), the carrier will offer monthly 5G data plans starting at only 128 Yuan ($18), setting a new international floor for the high-speed service, with the most premium plan priced at 598 Yuan ($85). Unsurprisingly, the $18 plan will come with significant restrictions — limited voice talk time with 30GB of total data, speed capped at 300Mbps — while higher-end plans will offer up to 300GB of total data, speed capped at 500Mbps or 1Gbps, with additional talk time.
Interestingly, the China Mobile leak suggests all three major operators will have the same entry-level pricing and similar packages, differentiating their offerings with network quality and customer service. For instance, while China Mobile’s “basic” 5G service will hit 300Mbps as a peak, users won’t have priority network access in busy areas — the faster and pricier “enjoyment” and “speed” plans will offer either “priority” or “optimal” network access during times of congestion. China Telecom and China Unicom , by comparison, may offer more talk time but different local 5G coverage.
Pricing for 5G data plans has been a major point of discussion over the past year as carriers across the globe have wrestled with encouraging early adoption and use of new high-speed network assets while paying for significant infrastructure investments. In South Korea, carriers have split between capped and unlimited plans , with the latter starting at $70. U.S. carriers have largely focused on $70-$90 “unlimited” monthly plans while offering no access options at historically popular sub-$50 price tiers. That could change by year’s end, as T-Mobile rolls out a nationwide but likely slower 5G offering at a more aggressive price.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
