Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Valorant launches on June 2 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Sage in Valorant.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Riot Games announced today that its team-based shooter Valorant will have its official launch for PC on June 2.
The free-to-play game has been in beta since April 7 and has already become a hit with many streamers, influencers, and pro players. That testing period will end on May 28. Once that happens, Riot will reset player accounts and patch in new content. Setting back player progress from a beta is common for competitive games like this, as it will put everyone on equal footing when Valorant launches.
For years, Riot has focused on a single game, the MOBA League of Legends.
 While that free-to-play title has been a huge hit, Riot has begun to diversify its library in recent years, including with the auto battler Teamfight Tactics and the digital card game Legends of Runeterra.
Valorant will be the studio’s most ambitious post-League of Legends project yet. Unlike with Teamfight Tactics or Legends of Runeterra, Valorant has no story or world connection to the League of Legends universe.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The game is similar to Valve’s Counter-Strike series. One team tries to plant a bomb (or spike, as it’s called in Valorant) while the other has to stop them or defuse the bomb if it’s set. Players earn money after every round based on things like how many kills they got and if their team won or lost, and they can use that cash to buy things like armor and guns.
Unlike with Counter-Strike, Valorant is hero-based, similar to games like Riot’s own League of Legends or (if you want another shooter example) Blizzard’s Overwatch.
 Each hero has access to a unique set of abilities. For example, one character can create walls, another can blind the enemy team with a flash bang, and another can set up smoke clouds across the map. But at the end of the day, success still depends largely on your ability to aim and shoot.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
