Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Malwarebytes reports consumer cyberattacks dropped as hackers target businesses Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Cybersecurity Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Malwarebytes said in a new report that cyber attacks on businesses soared in 2018 while consumer hacks dipped.
In its 2019 State of Malware Report, Malwarebytes found that criminals are increasingly drawn to the big payoffs that come with attacking companies compared to the piecemeal gains of going after individuals.
“The year 2018 was action-packed from start to finish,” said Adam Kujawa, director of Malwarebytes Labs, in a statement.
Kujawa noted that over the course of the year , the company tracked bad actors diversifying their cryptomining attacks , expanding tactics aimed at Android and Mac platforms, trying new browser-based attacks, and rolling out new types of Trojan-based attacks to steal data.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! As a result, malware detection for businesses rose 79 percent in 2018 compared to 2017. This included an increase in “backdoors, miners, spyware and information-stealers.” While countries such as the U.S., U.K., and Germany all made the top 10 list for countries with most business attacks, the Asia-Pacific region saw a big spike in malware last year, the report says.
For consumers, the company tracked about 775 million malware attacks in 2018, down from about 800 million in 2017. There had been a slight uptick against consumers at the end of 2017, due to cryptocurrency miners, but those lost steam in 2018 as cryptocurrency valuations plunged.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
