Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Android Wear is now Wear OS by Google Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google has confirmed last week’s rumor on Reddit : Android Wear has been rebranded to Wear OS by Google.
 In short, Google’s wearable operating system is no longer tied to Android — it’s “a wearables operating system for everyone.” Users will begin to see the new name on their watch and phone app “over the next few weeks.” Google explains that Android Wear was always meant to bring wearables to as many people as possible. After bringing iOS support to Android Wear in August 2015 , Google has continued to make sure the platform works for both Android and iOS users. In 2017, one out of three new Android Wear watch owners also used an iPhone, Google revealed.
While the name is new today, Google promises there is more to come. Without going into detail, the company said “new features and improvements” will be released “over the coming weeks and months.” Google also shared a few numbers about the platform today. Since launch, more than 50 watches running Android Wear have been built so far “to help you manage your fitness, connect with the people who matter most, and show you the information you care about.” The company saw more than 60 percent year-over-year growth in activations between the 2016 holiday season and the 2017 holiday season.
And yet the platform has been unable to keep up with the competition. The biggest players in the space , including market leaders Apple, Fitbit, and Xiaomi, don’t use it. They have their own operating systems tailored for their devices. But Google isn’t giving up — it’s just doubling down on marketing.
Update at 8 p.m. Pacific : Google has released a list of watches that will get the Wear OS platform update.
There are 33 so far: Casio PRO TREK Smart WSD-F20 Casio WSD-F10 Smart Outdoor Watch Diesel Full Guard Emporio Armani Connected Fossil Q Control Fossil Q Explorist Fossil Q Founder 2.0 Fossil Q Marshal Fossil Q Venture Fossil Q Wander Guess Connect Gc Connect Huawei Watch 2 (both cellular & non-cellular versions) Hugo BOSS BOSS Touch Kate Spade Scallop LG Watch Sport LG Watch Style Louis Vuitton Tambour Misfit Vapor Michael Kors Access Bradshaw Michael Kors Access Dylan Michael Kors Access Grayson Michael Kors Sofie Montblanc Summit Movado Connect Mobvoi Ticwatch S & E Nixon Mission Polar M600 Skagen Falster Smartwatch TAG Heuer Connected Modular 41 TAG Heuer Connected Modular 45 Tommy Hilfiger 24/7 You ZTE Quartz VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
