Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Assassin’s Creed: Valhalla creative director steps down amid sexual misconduct allegations Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Assassin's Creed: Valhalla.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Ashraf Ismail is stepping down as creative director on Assassin’s Creed: Valhalla.
 This comes after multiple people alleged that Ismail lied about being married to keep them in a relationship with him.
Publisher Ubisoft has confirmed the move.
“I am stepping down from my beloved project to properly deal with the personal issues in my life,” Ismail wrote on Twitter. “The lives of my family and my own are shattered. I am deeply sorry to everyone hurt in this.” Ismail did not say what actions actually shattered his life and those of his family. In multiple accounts on social media , people allege that Ismail would lie repeatedly about his marriage.
As for Assassin’s Creed, the franchise is moving forward without Ismail. Ubisoft hasn’t provided a release date for Valhalla beyond later this year. The company didn’t address release timing or the allegations against Ismail in its statement: Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Ashraf Ismail is stepping down from the project to take a leave of absence. The development team is committed to delivering a great game in Assassin’s Creed Valhalla.
For his part, Ismail also said he is stepping down to protect his coworkers at Ubisoft.
“There are hundreds of talented, passionate people striving to build an experience for you that do not deserve to be associated with this,” Ismail wrote on Twitter.
 “I wish them all the best.” GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
