Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google makes dataset of 50 million drawings available on its cloud Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Deborah Schmidt packing QuickDraw data into letters Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
You can tell a lot about a person by the way they doodle. That’s the conceit behind Quick Draw , an interactive web experiment launched by Google’s Creative Lab in November 2016. It recruits intrepid web surfers to illustrate prompts with sketches, all the while leveraging artificial intelligence (AI) to attempt to identify what was drawn — sort of like a high-tech version of Pictionary.
Quick Draw has collected more than 1 billion drawings across 345 categories, 50 million of which Google open-sourced last year — complete with metadata, including prompts and geographical user locations. Today, it’s making them available through Google Cloud Platform (GCP) in the form of an API and an accompanying Polymer component. (Polymer, for the uninitiated, is an open source JavaScript library for building web applications.) Starting this week, any GCP customer who joins the public Google Group can add the API to their library by searching for it and adding it to a project. With the Polymer component, doodles can be displayed in a web-based app with a single line of code.
“When we release the dataset, it was basically a file for every one of the 345 categories, and it was a little bit cumbersome to work with,” Nick Jonas, creative technologist at Google’s Creative Lab, told VentureBeat in a phone interview. “A lot of these studies that have been done over the past year are large analyses on the entire dataset. We got some feedback from developers who said they wanted an easier way to prototype with the data quickly.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Above: Adding the Quick, Draw! API to a project in Google Cloud.
The Quick Draw API — which uses Google Cloud Endpoints to host a Node.js API, Jonas explained — provides access to the same 50 million files contained in the original dataset, but obviates the need to download them in their entirety. It returns a JSON object or an HTML canvas rendering for each drawing — one doodle.
“It’s a way for users not to have to download gigs and gigs of data before they can start playing with it,” Jonas said.
There are surprising insights to be gleaned from the data. A study by Quartz in June found that 86 percent of U.S. players drew circles counterclockwise, while 80 percent of Japanese drew them clockwise. (The difference, the publication found, can be attributed to the top-left-to-bottom-right stroke order in Japanese writing.) Meanwhile, an internal survey out of Google Research discovered that users from Western countries tend to doodle fish facing the opposite direction from those drawn by Asian users.
The dataset’s also been used creatively. British artist Neil Mendoza used a face-tracking algorithm to apply Quick Draw sketches atop a human head, and German-based computer scientist Deborah Schmidt tapped a subset of 300,000 random doodles to fill in letter templates with collages.
Above: Neil Mendoza mapping Quick Draw facial features to a human face.
In the future, the team is considering migrating the doodles to a database, which would afford fine-grain access control. In theory, users would be able to perform queries like “Give me a recognized drawing from China in March 2017.” “I just want to encourage people to use [the dataset] in new ways and to contribute and see how this can possibly expand,” Jonas said. “I just want to encourage developers to play with it.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
