Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Valimail raises $45 million to thwart email phishing attacks Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Valimail homepage Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Anti-phishing startup Valimail has raised $45 million in a series C round of funding from Insight Partners.
Launched in 2016 , Valimail has built an automated cloud-based platform that helps companies establish the authenticity of in-bound emails, as well as spotting outbound phishing attacks which is often referred to as BEC (“business email compromise”), where cyber criminals target a company’s customers with emails that appear to come from one of the company’s employees. The San Francisco-based startup, which has adopted email authentication protocols such as DMARC (“Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting and Conformance”) as part of its efforts, has claimed some big-name clients, including Uber, Yelp, and WeWork.
“By delivering the world’s first fully automated, identity-based solution for protecting email, we are transforming the way the global enterprise thinks about email security,” said Valimail CEO and cofounder Alexander García-Tobar in a statement. “In short, we are delivering trust — we make enterprise email trustworthy, both for inbound and outbound messages.” Prior to now, Valimail had raised around $39 million, and with another $45 million in the bank it plans to “accelerate the expansion” of its products, grow its partnerships, and expand globally.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Email growth Despite the rise in team-collaboration tools such as Slack and mobile messaging apps like WhatsApp, email continues to serve as a key mode of communication for consumers and companies alike. Some 4 billion users were estimated to have sent nearly 300 emails each day in 2018, a figure that’s set to grow in the coming years — email is going nowhere yet.
However, a rise in phishing attacks has opened the door for myriad startups looking to mitigate the risks posed by online fraudsters. Earlier this week, Ironscales announced it had raised $15 million to help thwart phishing attacks with AI, while last week Vade announced a whopping $79 million raise to protect email inboxes from phishing attempts, malware, and spam.
“Phishing and business email compromise attacks are on the rise around the world and the losses have mounted into the billions,” added Insight Partners VP Thomas Krane. “It’s clear that other email security technologies have not solved this urgent global problem. Valimail’s ‘trust layer’ represents a fundamentally better approach to solving this crisis of fake sender identities.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
