Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Enterprise chatbot platform Avaamo raises $14.2 million round led by Intel Capital Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Avaamo Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Enterprise chatbot startup Avaamo announced today that it has raised $14.2 million as the company seeks to expand its artificial intelligence-based chat service.
The round was led by Intel Capital, but also included investment from Ericsson Ventures, Mahindra Partners, Wipro Ventures, and WI Harper. The company has now raised a total of $23.5 million since coming out of stealth in 2014.
 Partner Arun Chetty led the investment for Intel Capital and has joined Avaamo’s board.
“Avaamo’s conversational intelligent assistants are already deployed globally in more than 40 countries and even greater global expansion is on the horizon as enterprises seek an AI-based conversational computing solution to improve last mile automation,” said Ram Menon, cofounder and CEO of Avaamo, in a statement.
Menon founded Avaamo in 2014 with Sriram Chakravarthy, a former colleague from Tibco. The pair decided to specialize in conversational interfaces that leverage “deep-learning software” to target enterprise users, with a particular focus on supply chain, HR, sales support, claims processing, and insurance advisory.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Over the past three years, the company claims it has developed a more sophisticated interface to better handle customer questions in those industries. The latest funding will be used primarily to expand sales and marketing.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
