Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Xiaomi plans to launch more than 10 5G phones in 2020 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The logo of Xiaomi is seen inside the company's office in Bengaluru, India, January 18, 2018.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
( Reuters ) — Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi plans to launch more than 10 5G phones in 2020, CEO Lei Jun said on Sunday, speaking at the World Internet conference in the eastern Chinese town of Wuzhen.
Lei’s remarks come as the company faces intense competition in its home market from rival Huawei. Last month, Xiaomi launched the Xiaomi Mi 9 Pro, the company’s first 5G-enabled phone for the domestic market.
According to Lei, demand for the phone exceeded the company’s expectations and led to supply chain issues. The device’s reception has prompted Xiaomi to launch 5G models for the high, middle, and low-end price tiers next year.
“People in the industry fear that next year 4G models won’t sell; this is a step you have no choice but to take,” Lei said. “So we hope that operators can speed up their expansion of 5G base stations.” Xiaomi’s share price has fallen steadily this past year as China’s smartphone market grows more competitive. In September, the company announced it would plan a $1.5 billion share buyback.
In the second quarter of 2019, Xiaomi occupied 11.8% of China’s smartphone market, down from 13.9% one year prior, according to research firm Canalys.
All other top Chinese brands suffered declining sales volumes as consumers flocked to Huawei, driven in part by patriotism. The Shenzhen-based handset maker became the center of U.S.-China tensions in May, when Washington effectively called for U.S. companies to cease supplying parts to the company.
However, Xiaomi has enjoyed success in Europe , where it remains a relatively new player in the continent. The company’s market share in the region during the second quarter of 2019 hit 9.6%, up from 6.5% the year prior, making it one of the fastest-growing phone brands in the region.
( Reporting by Josh Horwitz and Yingzhi Yang in Wuzhen; writing by Tom Daly in Beijing; editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan.
) VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
