Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Candor: 267 companies have frozen hiring, 44 had layoffs, 36 rescinded offers, 111 are hiring Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A real-time snapshot of the impact the coronavirus is having on hiring/firing.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
COVID-19 has taken a toll on the workforce, and you can now see a list of who’s hiring, freezing hires, laying people off, and rescinding job offers , according to crowdsourced data from Candor, a company that helps tech workers negotiate salaries. In a matter of hours, the list of more than 400 companies posted in the past day went viral, with hundreds of new tips submitted from job seekers, employees, recruiters, and VCs.
So far, the company has received reports from about 400 companies, and 267, or 60%, said they were implementing hiring freezes. Candidates reported having job offers rescinded in 36 cases (18%) while layoffs occurred in 44 companies (13%). [ Update : The list now includes more than 1,000 companies].
The good news: 111 companies are hiring. But 10% of those still hiring have implemented some kind of hiring freeze, laid off people, or had offers rescinded. That’s likely because hiring only continues for essential roles. It’s no surprise that Zoom, the video conferencing company, is hiring people. Twitch, Twitter, Twilio, Roblox, TikTok, Qualcomm, PUBG, Paypal, Palantir, Nvidia, Northrop Grumman, Medtronic, Lockheed Martin, eBay, Doordash, DocuSign, and Amazon are among those hiring.
Candor is crowdsourcing this list directly from employees at the businesses in question, and wherever possible confirming reports or adjusting them after talking with company representatives. The firm is reviewing submissions via Intercom, Airtable, and email, prompted by contacts via its live chart. In some ways, this is more accurate, as many companies aren’t announcing their moves.
Candor helps tech professionals negotiate their salary. A lot of this data is sourced directly from clients who are experiencing the situation live on the ground. Candor cofounder and chief technology officer David Chouinard put the list together to help bring transparency to the state of the job market.
Business software is the largest category of submissions (81 submissions), with 41 hiring freezes, representing 52% of companies in this industry.
The travel, hospitality, and transportation segment was particularly hard hit, with 95% of companies freezing hiring. Only two companies, Bolt and Cruise, report they are still hiring. All booking platforms — like Kayak, Expedia, and Booking.com — have suspended hiring. Uber and Lyft have a headcount freeze but continue to backfill already open positions. And 12 companies — like Bird, Expedia, Sonder, Mondee, and Knotel — have confirmed layoffs.
Above: A real-time snapshot of the impact the coronavirus is having on hiring/firing. (updated 3/29/20 at 1:32 pm).
All job search companies have hiring on hold — including LinkedIn, Indeed, and Glassdoor.
Consulting companies seem to be strongly affected — PwC, Oliver Wyman, Deloitte, and EY have reported hiring freezes. In automotive, all six reporting companies, including Tesla and Cox Automotive, have reports of a hiring freeze.
In media and entertainment, seven companies, including Netflix, Hulu, and Disney, are putting roles on hold. Only 46% of companies continue to hire. And in food and dining, 25% of 12 companies are still hiring. Doordash and Instacart report strong hiring. Meanwhile, ZeroCater, Deliveroo, and Snackpass have frozen hiring.
The business software industry has 34 companies (41%) still hiring, the largest category. Financial services and consumer software were the next largest industries, with 22 and 14 companies still hiring, respectively.
As for the big tech companies, Facebook announced in a recent internal Q&A that the company plans to continue hiring. However, it is canceling interviews for internships. Some Apple employees are starting to report hiring freezes. Amazon is on a hiring spree, as its business model is more resilient in the current climate. Amazon’s physical store teams are not currently hiring. Google is continuing to hire across all of its divisions.
[Updated 3/28/20 3 p.m. Pacific: Added new info on more than 500 companies. Updated again 3/29/20 at 10:48 a.m. with 1,000 companies.] VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
