Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Opinion ProBeat: Alphabet’s Sidewalk Labs won’t be the last to play the coronavirus card Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Yesterday, Alphabet’s Sidewalk Labs killed its Toronto smart city project , meaning raincoats designed for buildings, heated pavement, and object-classifying cameras will not be traded for unprecedented data collection. Privacy advocates celebrated — Big Brother would not be gaining even more invasive power to surveil residents. But this story is far from over. Whether one hoped for a smart city or feared it, the reality is this project did not live or die on its merits. Nor did it get axed because of “unprecedented economic uncertainty,” as Sidewalk CEO Daniel Doctoroff suggested.
 The pandemic was just the scapegoat.
The rest of 2020, and possibly beyond, is going to be filled with stories about companies pulling back due to the economy. Look out for them, because they are going to be instructive of what were the riskiest bets in the first place. If you run a business, it might be time to rip off the Band-Aid yourself.
Pandemic or not, it is always instructive to follow the money. Sidewalk Labs is a Google sister company under the Alphabet umbrella. Other Alphabet companies include Calico, CapitalG, DeepMind, GV, Google Fiber, Jigsaw, Loon, Makani, Verily, Waymo, Wing, and X. These moonshots are not broken out in Alphabet earnings because frankly, none are profitable. Instead, they are lumped together under a line item called “Other Bets.” Last week, Alphabet reported its Q1 2020 earnings during which Other Bets revenue was down 21% to $135 million, while losses were up 29% to $1.1 billion. Yes, Other Bets burned eight times more cash than it generated.
Q1 2020 was a special quarter for Alphabet. Not because it was the worst quarter for Other Bets — there have been worse ones, if you can believe it. Not because it overlapped with the pandemic — Alphabet seems to be handling the downturn, so far. Q1 2020 was special because it was the first full quarter in which Sundar Pichai oversaw Alphabet.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! In December, when Google’s CEO also became Alphabet’s CEO , I explained we knew what to expect : Alphabet companies will either become more focused or get folded into Google. Maybe Pichai has made a decision about Sidewalk Labs. Maybe he hasn’t. Either way, the Sidewalk Labs project was low-hanging fruit — the ROI for a Google smart city was never there.
Don’t get me wrong. I was critical of the Sidewalk Labs approach and have generally argued that tech company expansions need to be less arrogant and more transparent.
 It’s one thing for a company to be able to halt development of an app overnight. It’s completely another to walk away from building a smart city overnight. Imagine if the smart city already had residents living in it and Sidewalk Labs decided to pull the plug. Is that really the type of control we want to hand over to tech giants? And yet, Sidewalk Labs’ withdrawal from Toronto is not democracy thwarting surveillance capitalism. Soon after the news broke, the government-backed agency Waterfront Toronto stated “this is not the outcome we had hoped for.” This case had more to do with the chickens coming home to roost at Alphabet; the pandemic was just the excuse. Keep an eye out for other companies using “unprecedented economic uncertainty” as cover to cancel projects, leave markets, and/or pivot — regardless of whether you are cheering for them or not.
ProBeat is a column in which Emil rants about whatever crosses him that week.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
