Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google starts using indexed apps and its ‘mobile-friendly’ label as ranking factors for search results Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google today announced two changes to how it ranks search results. Google search is starting to take indexed apps and sites it labels as “mobile-friendly” into consideration.
Google has been experimenting with various levels of app indexing for years, with early features showing up as early as December 2013.
 Now it will use information from indexed apps as a ranking factor, but only for signed-in users who have said apps installed. This means Google search may surface content from indexed apps more prominently, showing you content from inside an app installed on your mobile device.
Back in November, Google started labeling sites as “mobile-friendly” to denote those that are optimized for phones. Now, the company is looking at using this as a ranking factor as well, but only in mobile searches. Still, this will affect all languages worldwide, and the company expects it “to have a significant impact in our search results.” Google says the app indexing change goes into effect today, though it didn’t reveal when it would affect users who aren’t signed in. The mobile-friendly change will meanwhile begin rolling out on April 21. Chances are you won’t see the effects yourself for a few months; however, mileage will vary depending on what you search for and how often.
If you’re an app developer, you can find out more about app indexing on the Google Developers page.
 There’s also a step-by-step guide if you want to add support right away.
If you’re a webmaster, you can make sure you have a mobile-friendly site by checking out the developer guide , testing your own pages using the Mobile-Friendly Test , and grabbing a full list of mobile usability issues across your site using the Mobile Usability Report.
 Even if you don’t care about SEO, you’ll probably want to do this, as it will improve your site’s performance.
In short, Google is pulling apps, mobile, and the web closer together with this ranking change. At the same time, the company is helping developers and webmasters improve their offerings, and getting even more data about where and how users are accessing information.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
