Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages HP unveils $599 Reverb VR headset with super pixel density and 114-degree FOV Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
HP hasn’t yet made a huge mark on the consumer virtual reality market, but its newest product could change that. Reverb is a Windows Mixed Reality headset with 2,160 by 2,160-pixel screens and a 114 degree field of view, enabling users to experience VR with sharper graphics than before — at a $599 starting price.
The displays are really Reverb’s key selling point. By contrast with HTC’s $800 Vive Pro , which has 1,440 by 1,600 resolution per eye, HP’s headset delivers considerably more pixels that can further reduce the “ screen door effect ,” where pixels and the gaps between them are visible to users. Reverb actually has twice as many pixels per eye — over 4.66 million versus Vive Pro’s 2.3 million — which is very impressive, assuming a computer’s video card has enough power to fill the screens 75 times per second. HP also is using improved lenses that enable the screens to deliver a wider field of view than the 105 degree FOV predecessor.
Made from a combination of plastic and fabric, Reverb is designed to be lightweight — only 1.1 pounds, slightly more than the original Oculus Rift — while packing integrated cameras for inside-out tracking. Windows Mixed Reality mode incorporates a view of the real world without the user having to take off the goggles. Reverb also supports Steam VR’s large collection of apps and games.
In addition to the $599 consumer model, a $649 “Professional” enterprise version will ship with a replaceable fabric face mask and separate cable so multiple users can use the headset. Each version will include the same dual Bluetooth controllers HP previously released for its lower-end VR headset.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Both versions of Reverb will ship in April. HP will continue to sell the lower-end model for $449.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
