Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Guest SEO is not enough in the age of voice Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google - Mic - Voice Recognition Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
With technology transforming virtually every aspect of our lives, it should be noted that many of the innovations we’re now seeing have existed for decades in science fiction novels and television. The capacity to talk to a computer (and have it talk back) was a staple of Gene Roddenberry’s Star Trek , where the Starfleet computer was voiced by Roddenberry’s wife, Majel. The 1970 movie Colossus: The Forbin Project featured a supercomputer that was intended to prevent war and proclaimed itself “the voice of World Control.” And before Google’s self-driving cars, the 1980s brought us KITT, an advanced artificially intelligent, self-aware, and nearly indestructible car from the TV show, Knight Rider.
Today’s voice applications may not have quite this level of panache and power, but there is no doubt they are infiltrating our daily lives and making their way toward mainstream adoption. According to Location World , 40 percent of adults now use voice search once per day, and 60 percent of these people started using voice search in the last year.
Comscore predicts that 50 percent of all searches will be voice searches by 2020. And a survey from Stone Temple Consulting found that over 60 percent of people use voice search at home and 58 percent use voice search to look something up on their smartphone.
A major driver of this growth is the fact that Google Home, Alexa, Siri, and Cortana have demonstrated around 92 percent accuracy in understanding the human voice. Voice search has become a convenient, user-friendly experience, and consumers are embracing it. In 2016, Amazon’s Echo became the company’s most popular product during the holidays. Voice search is one of the most important technology/computing trends of this year and next.
And we are finally getting into semantic search capabilities. This will have profound implications for brands, who need to adapt beyond SEO to participate in (and reap the benefits of) this emerging voice-powered landscape.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Seamless, fast, and convenient The rules around SEO were built on a user typing a query into a browser-based search engine. Voice search is a different animal.
Let’s say someone’s been locked out of their apartment and uses voice search to find a locksmith. If the voice query is, “I need a locksmith to get into my house,” a brand like HomeAdvisor could present two highly rated locksmiths within two miles of their house. The most helpful response is one that knows the location of the request, recommends a service provider rated highly by a neighbor, then goes even further by automatically offering to call the business and even setting up an appointment.
The Stone Temple survey found that the top three rationales behind voice query usage were “It’s fast,” “The answer is read out loud back to me,” and “I don’t have to type.” Furthermore, 60 percent of voice search users want more answers and fewer search result options. When typing something into Google, it may not be a problem if dozens of options show up in the results. However, with voice search, people don’t want multiple results — they want one or two quick answers. Understanding these use cases and behavior preferences is key to succeeding at voice search optimization.
Conversational long tail keywords Another factor brands need to consider is the nature of the search queries themselves. Voice search usually involves long tail search terms of five words or more, instead of one, two, or three typed words. Voice search users conduct semantic searches in full sentences, which makes it possible to create more specialized content. Marketers need to consider that apps, landing pages, and strategic content should be more conversational and should anticipate what type of sentences people may ask within the context of a topic. It’s important to understand the natural, colloquial language people use around a keyword or search term and optimize for those words.
For example, someone may say, “I want to order kung pao chicken delivery.” There is a full story in that request, including where the person is located, the specific menu item, the ratings of nearby restaurants, whether the user has ordered from a specific restaurant before, and whether the restaurant in question offers delivery. As another example, if someone says: “Tell me how much a Tesla S costs,” the search response is simply a price. But if the user’s next question is, “What colors are available?” or “Where can I buy one near me?” the voice search browser should understand that the subject is still a Tesla.
Adapting beyond SEO means accounting for this back-and-forth question and answer process. Marketers need to understand the entire conversation around a keyword or search term so they can determine the best search results messaging. Brands can get a sense for conversational long tail keywords through focus groups in which they ask participants how they would inquire about their brand or product. The more contextual information gained from these focus groups, the better the brand can optimize the search results.
Personalized messaging Because voice search provides so much rich context, brands have the opportunity to create various tailored advertising tactics. One method is to create specific landing pages for a search result, which is much easier to do today through platforms like JSON, which also allow for data-driven personalization of the landing page. Another tactic, requiring the brand to have a voice query customer’s IP address, is to use past purchasing or browsing history to create personalized search result messaging.
Accuracy is important. AI can seem like a sentient being, and it can be unsettling if it doesn’t come back with the right response. But voice search is no longer just a far-off concept dreamt up by science fiction writers. In today’s highly competitive market, brands need to set themselves up for success by understanding changing consumer behaviors around search and the unique aspects of voice-enabled technology. SEO alone is not enough.
Good marketers understand the climate, environmental analysis, demographics, and primary, secondary, and tertiary targets and evolve their advertising methods to make maximum impact with their campaigns.
John Francis is the director of digital strategy of Hawthorne , an award-winning, technology-based advertising agency specializing in analytics and accountable brand campaigns for over 30-years.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
