Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Android passes 2.5 billion monthly active devices Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google revealed a handful of milestones during its I/O 2019 developer conference in Mountain View today, but the biggest was undoubtedly that Android now powers 2.5 billion active devices.
“We’re here to talk about Android version, 10, and we get to celebrate a milestone together,” Android product manager Stephanie Cuthbertson said onstage. “Today there are over 2.5 billion active Android devices.” The last time Google reported on this figure was also at I/O, in May 2017, when Android passed 2 billion monthly active devices.
 Google thus managed to add some 500 million devices in 24 months, or about 20 million devices per month. In September 2015, Android had 1.4 billion active users.
 People can of course use multiple devices and multiple accounts, so the number of users is likely lower than 2.5 billion. Nonetheless, the growth is impressive.
10 years and now over 2.5 billion active devices. Thanks for joining us on this journey.
#io19 pic.twitter.com/wC2VcVgEBS — Android (@Android) May 7, 2019 Let’s put that into context. That’s more than the 1.5 billion PCs that Microsoft estimates are running Windows worldwide, a figure that hasn’t been updated in years. It’s also more than Facebook’s 2.38 billion monthly active users , as of last month.
Android was the company’s first platform to reach the 2 billion mark. For a while now, Google has pointed out that it has eight products with more than a billion users: Android, Chrome, Google Play, Gmail, Google Drive, Google Maps, Google Search, and YouTube. But Android remains way ahead of the pack.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
