Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Samsung leaks Galaxy Buds, Galaxy Fit, and Galaxy Watch Active wearables Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The standard collection of pre-event rumors unofficially outed all of Samsung’s new wearables ahead of its Galaxy Unpacked Event, and now Samsung has confirmed the new products with an official leak of its own. As discovered by SamCentralTech , an update to the “Pick your device” screen of the Android app Galaxy Wearable (formerly Samsung Gear) shows several new devices: Galaxy Buds earphones, Galaxy Fit and Fit e fitness trackers, and the Galaxy Watch Active smartwatch.
Of the three, the least established is Galaxy Buds, a pair of truly wireless in-ear headphones that appear to nestle inside ear canals with rubber tips, leaving larger circles visible outside. While rumors have suggested that the Buds will come with a wireless charging case that can be refueled using inductive chargers on the backs of new Galaxy smartphones, today’s leak only officially confirms the name and buds themselves, as well as white and black color options. More detailed specs will need to wait for the event (or another leak).
The Galaxy Fit and Fit e fitness trackers appear to be direct sequels to Samsung’s prior Gear Fit devices. Besides confirming the names and apparently imminent announcement, the leak shows a black metallic watch-like device with a long color screen that displays the time and a step counter, attached to a seemingly non-detachable black plastic band. The Fitbit competitors are expected to include GPS, heart rate monitors, and the ability to store music.
Galaxy Watch Active’s inclusion on the list isn’t a real surprise at this point, as prior leaks appeared to reveal its name and all of its technical specifications. The new wearable was already expected to drop the rotating bezel of Samsung’s flagship wearable, 2018’s Galaxy Watch, for a sleeker design.
 But a reference to the watch in a 40mm size may explain one discrepancy in recent leaks, which have questioned whether the screen will be 1.3 inches or 1.1 inches in width. Just like the Galaxy Watch, it’s possible that Samsung will offer Active in two sizes with the same 360 x 360 screen resolution.
We’ll cover the Galaxy Unpacked Event on February 20 as it happens in San Francisco. Based on other leaks, Samsung is also expected to reveal the Galaxy S10 smartphone family and three new retail stores in California, New York, and Texas.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
