Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple plans to reopen U.S. stores in April, following Trump guidance Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A look at Apple's new retail store in downtown San Francisco. On May 21, 2016, people began lining up around the block for the grand opening.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Dovetailing with comments today from U.S. President Donald Trump that he will attempt to resume the country’s business operations by Easter, Apple has informed employees that it expects to begin reopening retail stores during the first half of April. The plan was disclosed in a memorandum from Apple retail chief Deirdre O’Brien.
As an Apple senior VP of both retail and people, O’Brien is responsible for both the company’s stores and its workforce, which has been scattered from Apple’s Cupertino headquarters into home offices following the outbreak of the novel coronavirus disease COVID-19.
 O’Brien told employees that the company will be extending its work-from-home arrangements through at least April 5, and will re-evaluate those arrangements on a weekly basis based on workers’ locations.
Apple currently plans to begin the process of reopening brick and mortar locations on a staggered basis, rather than bringing the entire U.S. chain back at once. While the company has closed stores across multiple territories, it has continued to offer online ordering with free home delivery throughout the coronavirus outbreak, and has even launched new products — updated iPad Pro and MacBook Air models — despite regional shelter-in-place requirements for citizens.
The company has previously moved to reopen stores and contract manufacturing facilities in China that were affected by an earlier coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan. It also pulled from Chinese distribution a third-party app that was being used in China to share COVID-19 news despite government censorship, as well as a plague-related game.
Health officials in the United States have warned that the premature resumption of business as normal will lead to a spike in COVID-19 infections that citizens and hospitals are unprepared to handle, potentially leading to hundreds of thousands if not millions of deaths. Following weeks of lockdown measures, President Trump suggested this week that closing down businesses to fight the outbreak was a cure more dangerous than the disease, which he trivialized as flu-like and unavoidable. After publicly floating the prospect of a reversal, Trump today formally pushed to get the U.S. “opened up” by roughly Easter, which will be observed this year on April 12.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
