Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Snap jumps 20% as coronavirus spurs use in Q1 2020 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
( Reuters ) — Snap on Tuesday beat Wall Street estimates for quarterly revenue and user growth for its Snapchat app as more people seek entertainment while they stay at home during the global coronavirus pandemic. Snapchat, known for its disappearing messages, said it saw a jump in usage in the last week of March compared with the end of January, as people increasingly used the app to communicate with friends and family. Usage also increased for Snapchat’s original content and in-app games.
Shares of Snap jumped as much as 20% to $14.80 in trading after the bell. Revenue rose 44% in the quarter, but the company’s net loss decreased only slightly as Snap said it continues to invest heavily in features like augmented reality technology. Daily active users (DAU) on Snapchat rose 20% to 229 million in the first quarter ended March 31, compared with a year earlier. The figure stood at 218 million in the fourth quarter.
 DAU, a widely watched metric by investors and advertisers, beat analysts’ average estimate of 224.68 million, according to Refinitiv data.
Revenue, which Snap earns mainly by selling advertising on the app, increased 44% from a year earlier to $462.47 million. The company said higher revenue in the first two months of the quarter offset lower growth in March, when advertisers began to tighten marketing budgets as non-essential stores closed amid the pandemic. Analysts had expected revenue of $428.80 million in the first quarter.
The company said it would shift resources on its sales team to serve advertisers in industries like gaming, home entertainment, and consumer packaged goods, which are expected to see higher demand from people stuck at home. “Direct response” advertisers, or those seeking to increase sales through their ads rather than name recognition, were a bright spot, said Evan Spiegel, CEO of Snap, in prepared remarks. For example, Snap could help movie studios pivot to digital or streaming releases, he said.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Snap said it would not provide its usual guidance for the next quarter, given the uncertainty caused by the coronavirus. “These high growth rates in the beginning of the quarter reflect our investments in our audience, ad products, and optimization and give us confidence in our ability to grow revenue over the long term,” Spiegel said.
Research firm eMarketer downgraded growth estimates for the global advertising industry this year to 7% from 7.4% — a difference of $20 billion — due to the coronavirus, in a report last month. Average revenue per user in the first quarter was $2.02, up from $1.68 in the prior year. Snap’s net loss declined slightly to $305.9 million, or 21 cents per share, from $310.4 million, or 23 cents per share, a year earlier.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
