Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft acquires Kubernetes experts Deis from Engine Yard Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Microsoft office sign.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Microsoft today announced that it has acquired the team behind Deis — which offers tools and services for working with applications packed up inside containers, many of which can run on a single physical server — from Engine Yard.
In 2015 Engine Yard, a company that offers a platform as a service (PaaS) developers can use to build and run applications, acquired OpDemand, the startup through which the Deis open source software tools were first developed. Now the team is moving on to Microsoft. Terms of the deal weren’t disclosed.
“We expect Deis’ technology to make it even easier for customers to work with our existing container portfolio including Linux and Windows Server Containers, Hyper-V Containers and Azure Container Service, no matter what tools they choose to use,” Scott Guthrie, executive vice president of Microsoft’s Cloud and Enterprise Group, wrote in a blog post.
Engine Yard, which was founded in 2006, hasn’t announced much since the OpDemand acquisition. Microsoft, meanwhile, has been focusing on supporting open source tools such as Docker, Kubernetes, and Apache Mesos in order to encourage further cloud adoption, even when developers aren’t using Microsoft’s Windows Server operating system. Kubernetes, a container orchestration tool, is Deis’ primary focus.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “Deis gives developers the means to vastly improve application agility, efficiency and reliability through their Kubernetes container management technologies,” Guthrie wrote.
This acquisition comes a few months after public cloud market leader Amazon Web Services (AWS) introduced Blox open source container-management tools, which are designed to work with AWS’ EC2 Container Service (ECS) for hosting container-based applications.
Google initiated the Kubernetes project in 2014. The Google Cloud Platform offers the Google Container Engine (GKE) based on Kubernetes. Last year Microsoft hired Kubernetes cofounder Brendan Burns from Google.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
