Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Adjust’s Control Center automates repetitive tasks of mobile advertising Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Adjust is automating repetitive marketing tasks.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Mobile measurement company Adjust has launched a technology called Control Center to automate mobile advertising, reducing repetitive workflows. The Berlin-based mobile measurement and fraud prevention company is launching its new product as part of a larger suite, dubbed Adjust Automate. With its release, Adjust aims to simplify the process of mobile advertising management.
Mobile has become the new undisputed king of digital , and App Annie predicts marketers will invest over $240 billion in mobile ad spend in 2020. But as the industry grows, the process behind ad management has become increasingly complex.
According to new research by Adjust: 81% of marketers surveyed said their company was planning to increase its marketing or advertising automation budget in 2020.
Marketers handle an average of 19 advertising campaigns across approximately 14 different networks, highlighting the scale and complexity behind current marketing campaigns.
When asked about their three biggest pain points in their roles, marketers listed merging and acting on disparate sources of data, individually updating bids and budgets, and accurate campaign management.
Adjust’s data came from a survey conducted by Censuswide , which polled one hundred user acquisition managers and digital marketers based in the United States.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Paul H. Müller, cofounder and chief technology officer at Adjust, said that mobile is one of the most sophisticated and technical channels in marketing today, but it relies on a huge amount of manual work. Marketers have to adjust 250 distinct bids and spend limits every day, he said. That means that even a moderate number of campaigns can become complex to keep updated.
Adjust’s Control Center was built to simplify these processes. Designed as a cross-app, cross-partner, and cross-network dashboard, marketers will be able to view data across all their apps and campaigns and act on it.
Above: Adjust surveyed the biggest pain points for mobile marketers.
The product follows Measure, which focuses on attribution and analytics, and Protect, which encapsulates its fraud prevention and cybersecurity solutions. The company claims these three product suites make marketing simpler, smarter, and more secure for the 32,000 apps working with Adjust.
With Control Center, marketers can offload manual, routine tasks, leaving them free to focus on being creative, Müller said. The product also has the potential to be an equalizer in mobile marketing, increasing the number of campaigns one person can manage and allowing smaller teams to compete with larger marketing departments, he added.
Control Center will be available as a separate package for clients and integrated into their existing dashboard, along with an Enterprise version that is fully customizable for the most sophisticated of advertisers.
The launch follows a period of growth for Adjust. In 2019, the company announced multiple acquisitions and hiring of top talent. It also raised $227 million.
 In 2020, Adjust said it will focus on consolidating its existing product to become the growth engine for the mobile marketing ecosystem.
In an email, Adjust said that Adjust Control Center is a marketing automation tool (part of the Adjust Automate product suite) that provides marketers with actionable analytics right in the Adjust dashboard.
It’s a pivot table that collects campaigns from across all apps and connects it with the cost data of different channels. This way, the marketer has a centralized overview for all of their campaigns and the decisions they need to make to change them. The marketer can actually adjust campaign bids and volumes right from within this view. So the marketer no longer needs to go in and out of different interfaces to do the same job.
Another powerful feature is the Rule Engine. It enables the marketer to define a set of conditions to automatically change a campaign’s bids and volumes. For example, if a campaign is raw as positive after seven days, it may automatically want to increase the campaign volume by 10%.
This means, with the Rule Engine, the marketer can keep all of campaigns bids and volumes up to date around the clock without doing any clicking.
In a nut shell, Adjust Automate aims to provide the marketer with a series of tools to cut down on the repetitive part of the job — freeing up time to actually focus on the creative work.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
