Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft Teams passes 20 million daily users, up more than half in 4 months Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
( Reuters ) — Microsoft said on Tuesday its workplace messaging app, Teams, has more than 20 million daily active users, up from 13 million in July.
The software maker offers the app as part of some Office365 business packages, as well as a free version. Teams allows users to chat, share files, make calls, and hold web video conferences.
Microsoft Teams, used by companies such as General Electric and SAP, competes with Slack.
Slack, whose customers include Electronic Arts and Nordstrom, reported more than 10 million daily active users in the second quarter ended July 31.
Slack’s shares fell 8.4% following the news, to $21.18. They are down 45% from the close of their first day of trade in June.
Microsoft Teams also competes with Workplace by Facebook and Cisco’s Webex Teams.
( Reporting by Ambhini Aishwarya in Bengaluru, editing by Rashmi Aich and Clarence Fernandez.
) VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
