Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages YouTube and Netflix reduce streaming quality in Europe, Disney+ delays launch in France due to coronavirus Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn President of Walt Disney Distribution Franchise Management, Business & Audience Insights Cathleen Taff speaks during CinemaCon.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Video streaming services that seemed to be entering a golden age just a few weeks ago are now facing pressure from European governments worried about the surge of internet traffic from coronavirus quarantines.
France is on the frontline in this battle, following the decision to impose mandatory confinement starting March 17. With schools turning to distance learning to keep students on track, adults required to work at home, and friends staying connected via Zoom and Skype, the internet infrastructure is groaning under massive demand.
DE-CIX, a global internet exchange company based in Frankfurt, Germany, reported that at its main network node it has seen average data traffic leap more than 10% in recent weeks, including reaching a new all-time peak of 9.1 terabits per second data throughput. The uses driving that surge include a 50% increase in video-conferencing traffic and a 25% increase in cloud gaming and social media use.
While that’s just a snapshot from Frankfurt, systems across Europe are straining under the same pressure. The situation has pushed Thierry Breton, the European Commissioner for Internal Market and Services, to ask streaming service providers to help lighten the load.
Important phone conversation with @ReedHastings , CEO of @Netflix To beat #COVID19 , we #StayAtHome Teleworking & streaming help a lot but infrastructures might be in strain.
To secure Internet access for all, let’s #SwitchToStandard definition when HD is not necessary.
— Thierry Breton (@ThierryBreton) March 18, 2020 Netflix subsequently announced that it would lower its streaming resolution for 30 days across Europe. “We estimate that this will reduce Netflix traffic on European networks by around 25% while also ensuring a good quality service for our members,” the company said in a statement sent to journalists.
YouTube also agreed to reduce its resolution after Breton made the request to Alphabet CEO Sundar Pichai. “We are making a commitment to temporarily switch all traffic in the EU to standard definition by default,” the company said in a statement.
https://twitter.com/ThierryBreton/status/1240916113971646465 Breton has reportedly requested that Disney+ delay its planned March 24 launch in several European countries, including the U.K. and France. Disney already canceled its planned European launch event earlier this month.
So far, Disney has not announced a delay. VentureBeat has reached out to the company for comment and will update this story if we hear back.
Update March 23 at 7 a.m. Pacific : Disney announced over the weekend that it would delay the launch of its streaming service in France until April 7. The planned launch will continue on March 24 in other European countries, but the company will reduce the streaming resolution.
In addition, Amazon Prime will also reduce its bitrate for streaming, as did Facebook and Instagram.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
