Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Review Vive Cosmos VR headset has an inexcusable flaw — horrid tracking Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Side view of the HTC Vive Cosmos.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Virtual reality isn’t the massive business that many of us thought it would turn into back in 2015 and 2016. But it’s still chugging along with new software and hardware like HTC’s Vive Cosmos. The $699 headset is available now and represents a series of upgrades over first-generation Vive systems.
 But in my testing, a core function of the Cosmos has failed so consistently that none of its other improvements matter.
The Vive Cosmos has a combined resolution of 2880-by-1700, which is 88 percent more pixels than the original Vive. The head-mounted display is also much more comfortable and easier to wear. And unlike the original Vive, Cosmos doesn’t require external tracking beacons. Instead, it uses an array of cameras.
But it’s that tracking that has brought the whole thing down for me. It doesn’t work. Or, at least, it stops working often enough that I consider the whole thing busted.
Vive Cosmos needs better tracking The idea behind Vive Cosmos and its tracking is good. Get rid of the external “lighthouses” that you had to hang on your wall or mount on tripods with the first Vive. Instead, use cameras to calculate the headset movement. This “inside-out” tracking is something we’ve seen in a number of other headset, such as the Oculus Quest.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! But what works extremely well for the Quest, doesn’t for the Cosmos. The issue is that the headset seems to struggle to understand what it’s looking at. I have a pretty standard office with a lot of space for room-scale VR. I also have what I would consider more than enough light. The Cosmos disagrees on that point.
What happens is that in the middle of a game, the Cosmos will stop and say that it lost tracking and I should try turning on more lights. I do not have any more lights, and I don’t want anymore.
And I’m not gonna hesitate to blame the Vive Cosmos for the failure here. I tested the Oculus Quest in the same space with lights on and off, and it didn’t have any problems. Updates could improve this, but I wouldn’t wait on that.
If you want a high-end VR headset with a high-resolution display, get the Index from Valve.
 It does require base stations for tracking, but I don’t mind that for PC VR. If I have to connect the headset to a computer anyhow, setting up some lighthouses is hardly inconvenient.
And I would recommend the Vive Cosmos alternatives on both ends of the spectrum. The Valve Index on the high end at $1,000. And the wireless, standalone Quest is great starting at $400.
 You can even use that on PC now with the Oculus Link cable.
As-is, the $700 Cosmos isn’t as convenient as the Quest or as capable as the Index. And that makes it easy to pass up.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
