Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Facebook commits $100 million to struggling news outlets during coronavirus crisis Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Facebook today announced plans to invest $100 million to boost local news media outlets whose advertising revenues have been gutted by the COVID-19 crisis.
In a blog post , Facebook’s vice president of global news partnerships, Campbell Brown, said local journalists are playing a vital role in providing information about COVID-19. But their employers’ ad-driven business models are threatened by the economic fallout from quarantines imposed to curb the disease.
“If people needed more proof that local journalism is a vital public service, they’re getting it now,” she wrote. “And while almost all businesses are facing adverse financial effects from this crisis, we recognize we’re in a more privileged position than most, and we want to help.” Facebook will donate $25 million in direct grants and will spend $75 million on marketing on local news sites to make up some of the lost revenue. The company announced it had already made grants to 50 newsrooms, including the Post and Courier of South Carolina, the Southeast Missourian , and El Paso Matters in Texas.
The company has made various efforts in recent years to form new partnerships that would help news organizations in decline. That includes a $300 million journalism grant program.
Like many large tech companies, Facebook has been under pressure to use its vast profits and platform to help out during the pandemic. The company had separately created a $100 million program to help small and mid-sized businesses survive the crisis.
The company had previously said it would help international health agencies leverage its Messenger service to distribute information. It also created a Messenger Coronavirus Community Hub to centralize information for users.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
