Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Cloud Native Computing Foundation says Envoy proxy has graduated from open source incubation program Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Attendees arrive at KubeCon + CloudNative Con Europe 2018 in Copenhagen.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
The Cloud Native Computing Foundation today announced that Envoy proxy is the third project to graduate from its incubation program for open source projects that support cloud-based application development.
Envoy joins Kubernetes and Prometheus as CNCF’s most advanced projects to date and seeks to change the way applications are written and deployed for online-based businesses and services.
“Since joining CNCF, Envoy proxy has been one of our fastest-growing projects and has undoubtedly contributed to the momentum we’re seeing within the service and edge proxy space,” said Chris Aniszczyk, COO of CNCF, in a statement. “With users at many of today’s largest scale organizations, and some incredibly bright developer minds behind it, we’re excited to continue cultivating Envoy’s community as a newly graduated project.” Read more: How a developers’ movement wants to sue Kubernetes and microservices to make the web faster, stable, and more open VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Envoy was originally developed at Lyft and was then given to CNCF to be nurtured as an open source project. Envoy is described by CNCF as “a high-performance open source edge, middle, and service proxy. The project helps ease the transition to, and operation of, cloud native architectures by managing the interactions among microservices in order to ensure application performance.” In designating Envoy as having “graduated,” CNCF has determined that the service is being widely embraced by developers, has created a neutral governance process for allowing ongoing development, and is showing a “strong commitment to community sustainability and inclusivity.” “The growth of Envoy over the last two years has been astounding, and beyond anything that I would have ever believed when I started the project,” said Matt Klein, the Lyft software engineer who was the original architect of Envoy, in a statement. “From end users to creators of higher-level products to the major cloud providers, the breadth of Envoy-based solutions continues to grow and amaze me. Graduating from the CNCF is a major milestone and an indication that Envoy’s community is strong and the project is ready for wide enterprise adoption.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
