Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Red Dead Redemption 2 approaches 35 million copies sold Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn You like games about cowboys, son? Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Rockstar Games had an OK decade, I guess. At least, for a studio that only had a handful of major releases. But two of those games, Grand Theft Auto V and Red Dead Redemption 2 , are among the best-selling games over the last 10 years.
 And now, Rockstar is highlighting some of those successes and noting that its two marquee games combined to ship 150 million units worldwide.
That means that Red Dead Redemption II is approaching 35 million copies shipped since its 2018 debut. As of November, Grand Theft Auto V had surpassed 115 million copies shipped, according to parent publisher Take-Two Interactive.
 And, at that time, GTA V was still selling an average of 1 million copies per month. And that doesn’t count any boost it would get from the holidays. So GTA V probably accounts for slightly more than 115 million of that 150 million total.
Still, this indicates strong ongoing sales for Red Dead Redemption 2. The cowboy simulator was at 25 million copies sold as of August.
 And while it only sold about 1 million copies over the slow summer months, it likely saw a major boost over the holidays. Especially considering its PC debut in November.
Red Dead Redemption 2 and Grand Theft Auto V both continue to grow their online audiences While both of Rockstar’s premier releases of the 2010s were top-sellers as full-game purchases, they are also huge contributors to to Take-Two Interactive’s digital revenues. And GTA Online and Red Dead online are both seeing growth in terms of their player engagement.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! GTA Online set a record for number of players in July when it launched its Diamond Casino & Resort update. It then set a new player-number record in December and for fourth quarter when it released the Diamond Casino Heist patch.
That helped Take-Two Interactive’s microtransaction revenue grow 32% year-over-year during its fiscal Q2.
Red Dead Online, while smaller than GTA Online, is beginning to see a similar trajectory. Rockstar launched the Moonshiners update for the multiplayer mode in December. That led to a new high mark in number of players. The game then surpassed that peak again in January.
To keep that momentum going through 2020, Rockstar is planning in-game rewards for players who boot up the online games.
You can get $1 million GTA bucks by logging in before February 5. You can then get another million crime dollars by logging in again between February 6 and February 12.
In Red Dead, you can get packs of goodies for showing up to play. Here’s how Rockstar puts it: “Red Dead Online players will receive a series of gifts including free access to select roles, special role item giveaways and more, including: The Gunslinger’s Cache: Play between January 28 and February 3 to get a Free Schofield Revolver, a Reward for 1 Free Varmint Rifle and The Devastating Ammo Bundle The Bounty Hunter’s Kit: Play between February 4 and February 10 to get a Reward for a Free Bounty Hunter license, 25 x Bolas, and a 25 x Tracking Arrows.” These bonuses can help keep the game populated in the gaps between major updates. And they should help keep dedicated fans happy while bringing back lapsed players.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
