Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Rockstar cofounder Dan Houser is leaving the Grand Theft Auto studio Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Dan Houser (center) accepts an award at DICE.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Rockstar Games is losing one of its cofounders. Dan Houser, who started the studio with his brother, Sam, is leaving. This is according to a U.S. Securities Exchange Commission filing. Rockstar parent company Take-Two Interactive alerted investors that Dan Houser will exit the Grand Theft Auto V and Red Dead Redemption II developer March 11.
Here is the full statement, which Take-Two included with form 8-K to the SEC : “After an extended break beginning in the spring of 2019, Dan Houser, Vice President, Creative at Rockstar Games, will be leaving the company. Dan Houser’s last day will be March 11, 2020. We are extremely grateful for his contributions. Rockstar Games has built some of the most critically acclaimed and commercially successful game worlds, a global community of passionate fans and an incredibly talented team, which remains focused on current and future projects.” What does this mean for Rockstar Games? Dan is one of the famous Houser brothers, who cofounded Rockstar Games and oversaw the creative aspects of the Grand Theft Auto series. Dan acted a manager at Rockstar as well as a writer and producer. His writing credits include Bully, Red Dead Redemption, and Max Payne 3. He was also a significant part of the writing team on Red Dead Redemption 2.
I’ve reached out to Rockstar Games and Take-Two Interactive for more about Dan Houser’s departure. Neither company has returned my requests. I’ll update this story if that changes.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Take-Two noted that he has been on break since spring 2019, which follows the period where Rockstar shipped Red Dead Redemption 2 and completed its core patches. The studio is always working on more content for Red Dead Online and GTA Online. But it also likely has future games in the works. But if a Grand Theft Auto VI is going to ship, it won’t be under Dan Houser.
Sam Houser, however, still remains. And Rockstar told investment firm Barron’s that Sam’s role is “unchanged.” Take-Two reports its Q3 2020 earnings on Thursday.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
