Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft Teams struggles as coronavirus pushes millions to work from home Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Microsoft Teams users in Europe are reporting major issues accessing the service today, at a time when millions of people are relying on technology to help them work and study remotely.
As people around the world are increasingly working from home in an effort to avert a COVID-19 catastrophe, cloud-based collaboration and communication tools will prove pivotal to companies’ success. So Microsoft Teams’ struggles this morning could not have come at a worse time.
As Europe’s newly enlarged remote workforce logged on this morning, users from across the continent turned to Twitter to complain that all was not well inside Microsoft Teams. The company itself confirmed that it was investigating “messaging-related functionality problems,” but reports suggest many users have also encountered problems creating new teams, modifying members, recording meetings, screen-sharing, and more.
We're investigating messaging-related functionality problems within Microsoft Teams. Please refer to TM206544 in your admin center for further details. ^JP — Microsoft 365 Status (@MSFT365Status) March 16, 2020 VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Microsoft originally reported that the issue had been fixed, with a Microsoft spokesperson telling VentureBeat: “We’ve resolved an issue that may have impacted a subset of customers in Europe.” However, the company later confirmed that the issues are still ongoing as the U.S. workforce wakens. “We’ve taken steps to address an issue that a subset of our customers may have experienced,” the spokesperson later said. “Our engineering teams continue to actively monitor performance and usage trends.” We've received reports that impact associated with TM206544 is ongoing. We’re investigating the issue and will be providing updates under TM206556 within your admin center.
— Microsoft 365 Status (@MSFT365Status) March 16, 2020 While the underlying issue is likely a vast increase in the number of people using Microsoft Teams to work from home, it’s undoubtedly compounded by the fact that many schools are embracing distance learning during the COVID-19 crisis.
Last week, Microsoft announced an enhanced version of the free Microsoft Teams product — removing restrictions to the number of people who can join a team and offering additional features usually reserved for paid users. The company also revealed that it was offering a six-month free trial for the premium tier of Microsoft Teams.
Microsoft Teams passed 20 million daily users back in November, and alongside rivals like Slack it’s emerging as a crucial tool for those who work from home and for increasingly distributed workforces, where team members may be spread across offices and locations.
Recent figures suggest more than two-thirds of the global workforce already work remotely at least one day a week, but with COVID-19 wreaking havoc around the world, many more people will be working from home for at least the next couple of months. Some have argued that this could lead to a permanent shift toward remote working, but the tools and technologies to enable this would need to prove their worth — which is why all eyes will be on Microsoft Teams, Google’s G Suite , Slack, Zoom , and the rest in the coming months.
** This post has been refreshed with additional updates from Microsoft. Microsoft confirmed on March 17, 2020, that the issue was resolved, and had been caused by a “…caching issue with a component of our infrastructure.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
