Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages 6D.ai creates platform for a 3D map of the world Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
6D.ai aims to build a 3D map of the world using only smartphone cameras. Today, the company announced it is working with Qualcomm Technologies to provide technology for Qualcomm’s Snapdragon mobile processing platform.
San Francisco-based 6D.ai will provide spatial understanding for Snapdragon-powered XR head-mounted displays (HMDs) and XR viewers that are designed to connect to smartphones based on the Qualcomm Snapdragon Mobile Platform.
6D.ai also released its Android solution to round out its cross-platform offerings, which already include iOS.
“The 3D model of the world is the next platform all apps will run on,” said 6D.ai CEO Matt Miesnieks in a statement. “We are seeing this happen today with businesses of all sizes across a variety of industries looking to build spatially aware applications that go beyond AR to scanning, location-based services, and in the future, drones and robotics. Today’s rollout of our business model and our cooperation with Qualcomm Technologies are the first of many steps we are taking toward building this 3D map of the world.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Above: 6D.ai founders Matt Miesnieks (left) and Victor Prisacariu.
Qualcomm Technologies and 6D.ai will work together to optimize the 6D.ai reality platform for Snapdragon-powered XR devices, taking advantage of advanced computer vision and AI processing to enable developers and device makers to create fully immerse apps with life-like XR experiences that blur the line between real and virtual worlds.
“XR, powered by AI and 5G, has the potential to define the next generation of immersive mobile computing,” said Hugo Swart, senior director of product management and head of XR at Qualcomm Technologies, in a statement. “6D.ai is strengthening today’s experiences by building world maps to help lay the foundation for a future where XR devices fully understand the real world, to enable developers creating next-generation applications that can recognize, interpret, and interact with the world we live in.” Additionally, 6D.ai announced the beta rollout of its Android solution. These cross-platform experiences allow users of apps built on 6D to share the same virtual experience, accurately and persistently, while viewing it from different devices.
6D.ai said that any app that ships on the company’s platform by December 31 will enjoy free use of its SDK for three years.
Thousands of developers are already testing and building apps that realistically interact with the world on 6D.ai’s platform, including Autodesk, Nexus Studios, and Accenture.
Founded in November 2017, 6D.ai is a seed-stage startup that was spun out of Oxford University’s world-renowned Active Vision Lab. 6D.ai currently has 16 employees.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
