Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon becomes a $1 trillion company, 1 month after Apple Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Amazon logo is seen at the Young Entrepreneurs fair in Paris Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Amazon has become the second U.S. company to hit a market capitalization of $1 trillion, after its share price briefly edged past the $2,050 mark this morning.
The ecommerce giant’s shares opened today at $2,026.50, but they quickly rose to a high of $2,050.50 before dropping again to around the $2,040 mark where it currently sits.
Above: Amazon market cap The milestone moment comes less than a week after Amazon shares hit $2,000 for the first time , with speculation subsequently mounting on when the Seattle firm would join Apple in the exclusive trillion-dollar club. Indeed, Apple became the first U.S. company — and second globally — to hit a market capitalization of $1 trillion just last month, as debates raged for months on which of the two companies would be first to reach the landmark figure.
Amazon’s shares have doubled in the past 12 months and tripled in two years. Last Thursday, as Amazon hit $2,000 per share, it was just 2.5 percent off hitting a $1 trillion market cap, but achieving that growth in just five days is perhaps quicker than many would have predicted.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
