Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon debuts AWS Inf1, an AI inference instance Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn AWS CEO Andy Jassy onstage at re:Invent in Las Vegas on December 3, 2019.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Amazon Web Services today debuted Inf1, an instance that powers AI inference in the cloud that CEO Andy Jassy calls the lowest cost inference offering available in the cloud.
“[I]t will have lower latency, it will have 3 times higher throughput, and up to 40% lower cost per instance compared to our G4 instance, which is based on an Nvidia chip which previously was the lowest cost inference instance in the cloud,” Jassy said.
The vast majority of costs for operations using cloud services to power AI solutions comes from inference, Jassy said onstage today at the AWS re:Invent conference in Las Vegas.
The news follows the release of the Elastic Inference service and plans to release the Inferentia AI chip.
 Inf1 will also be powered by the Inferentia chip made by Annapurna Labs, an Israeli company AWS acquired in 2015.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Inf1 instances are generally available today and will integrate with PyTorch, MXNet, and TensorFlow. Inf1 will be made available for EKS instances and Amazon’s SageMaker for machine learning in 2020.
The news was announced today onstage at AWS re:Invent alongside Graviton2, a 7-nanometer, 64-bit chip made to rival Intel’s X86 in data centers. Jassy said Graviton 2 will power M6G, R6G, and C6G instances. Graviton 2 will have 4 times more compute and 40% better price performance than Intel’s X86 processors, Jassy said. News of a new AWS data center chip first emerged last week.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
