Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple passes 400 million iPads sold Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Apple CEO Tim Cook announced during the company’s “ More in the Making ” event in New York City that Apple has passed 400 million iPads sold. Apple sold more iPads in the last year (44.2 million) than any other major manufacturer sold laptops, Cook pointed out.
“We’ve sold more iPads in the last year than the entire notebook lineup of all of the biggest notebook vendors,” Cook said onstage. “Not only [is it] the most popular tablet, but the most popular computer in the world.” Tablet shipments have been in the red for years — most recently, tablets declined for the 15th straight quarter.
 Nonetheless, Apple has led this market with the iPad. The company has seen year-over-year declines, as well, but most recently iPad sales have been largely flat.
This is one reason Cook wants to compare the iPad to laptops — the tablet market simply isn’t growing, and neither is the iPad. Tablets simply don’t sell as well as smartphones. The other reason is because Apple wants to position the iPad as more than just another tablet.
Apple shared the 400 million milestone right before unveiling the new iPad Pro and Apple Pencil.
 The devices are meant to blur the line between tablet and laptop, which Apple talks up in its marketing by arguing the iPad should be seen as redefining what a computer can be.
At the very start of the “More in the Making” event, Cook shared that Apple had 100 million active Mac users.
 He didn’t give a comparable figure for the iPad.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
