Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sonic the Hedgehog 2 and Puyo Puyo 2 are coming to Switch thanks to Sega Ages Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Press start to play.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Sega announced today that Sonic the Hedgehog 2 and Puyo Puyo 2 are coming to the Nintendo Switch on February 20. Each game costs $8.
These are coming as part of the Sega Ages program, Sega’s initiative to release classic games on modern platforms. Lately, Sega Ages’ efforts have focused on Switch, with other retro hits like the original Sonic the Hedgehog, Phantasy Star, and Space Harrier making their way to the platform.
These games also often release with new features. This version of Sonic 2 (originally released for the Genesis in 1992) includes a mode that lets you play as the powered-up Super Sonic from the very beginning. You can also enable the drop dash ability, which was introduced in Sonic Mania.
 You can also play the game as Knuckles without the need of your old Sonic & Knuckles cartridge.
Puyo Puyo 2 is exciting because this will be the first time we’ve gotten the puzzle game in English. It came out in Japan back in 1994. This version of Puyo Puyo 2 includes online battles, a colorblind mode, a rewind feature, and online rankings.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! This is exciting news for retro gaming fans. Sonic 2 is one of the best sidescrollers of the ’90s, and it’s a treat to finally get Puyo Puyo 2 in English.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
