Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Uber grows customers and revenues, but net loss widens Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi speaking at DLD Conference in Munich on January 22, 2018.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
( Reuters ) — On Thursday, Uber moved its target to achieve a measure of profitability forward by a year to the fourth quarter of 2020, but the ride-hailing company still expects to lose a total of more than $1 billion this year.
Uber shares were up 5% in after-hours trading on the news, with CEO Dara Khosrowshahi saying the company would cut costs, aim to generate more repeat-customer business, and try to increase use of premium ride services.
He also said Uber would accelerate growth at its loss-making food delivery business, Uber Eats, to become the top player in most of its worldwide markets, eventually increasing the segment’s margins, which are currently a drag on Uber earnings.
Khosrowshahi revealed the new profitability target on a conference call with investors after the company reported results for the fourth quarter of last year, in which it continued to lose money but increased its customer base.
Atlantic Equities analyst James Cordwell said the onus was now on management to deliver on that promise.
In November, Uber promised to be profitable on an adjusted basis by the end of 2021, excluding expenses for stock-based compensation and other items.
The company on said Thursday that it still expected an adjusted EBITDA loss of $1.25 billion to $1.45 billion for the full year of 2020.
In the fourth quarter of 2019, Uber boosted its revenue on an increase in global monthly active users to more than 111 million, but high costs at Uber Eats meant it continued to lose money as it tried to outspend competitors.
Some analysts remained skeptical about Uber’s continued investment in the highly competitive food delivery market. Eric Ross, an analyst at Cascend Securities, said he preferred the stock of Uber’s smaller ride-hailing competitor, Lyft, because it does not invest in expensive side projects.
Uber has vastly diversified its business over the past five years. Besides expanding its food delivery segment , Uber is also developing self-driving cars , working on long-haul trucking operations , and even planning commercial passenger drone shuttles.
Lyft is expected to report quarterly results on February 11.
Cash burning In the fourth quarter, Uber’s total revenue rose 37% to $4.07 billion on a yearly basis, roughly in line with analyst estimates.
But its net loss widened to $1.1 billion from a loss of $887 million a year earlier.
Three-quarters of Uber’s revenue came from its ride-hailing service, and the segment had its best quarter yet, boosted by strong growth in its premium rides segment, including Uber Comfort, which transports passengers in larger cars. On its own, Uber’s ride-hailing business would be profitable, but the company’s total costs rose 25.2% to $5.04 billion in the quarter.
While revenue at Uber Eats grew nearly 14% on a quarterly basis, spending on promotional incentives outpaced the segment’s revenue growth. Promotional costs as a share of revenue at Uber’s Eats grew 4% from the third quarter.
In reaching its profitability goal, Uber has vowed to exit markets where it could not become the dominant food delivery player.
The company in January sold its food-ordering business in India to local competitor Zomato, in exchange for taking a stake in the startup. The Indian business contributed only 3% of gross bookings in the first nine months of last year, but accounted for a quarter of the company’s adjusted operating losses.
Investors welcomed the news as a sign of Uber prioritizing profit over growth, sending the company’s shares up on January 21, the day after the announcement.
Uber’s business model, which depends on contractors transporting passengers and delivering food, is also under threat from regulators around the world as states and cities try to increase driver pay, lower congestion, and improve safety.
Khosrowshahi said on Thursday that Uber was engaged in dialogue with regulators around the world and that he was hopeful the regulatory environment would improve.
( Reporting by Tina Bellon in New York and Munsif Vengattil in Bangalore, editing by Matthew Lewis.
) VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
