Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Uber Pet launches so you know Fido can ride with you Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Uber Pet Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Uber is piloting a new service in the U.S. called Uber Pet, one that allows riders to request a driver that has pre-agreed to accept pets.
Compared to other expansions Uber has made of late, such as the Uber Works on-demand recruitment platform introduced last week, Uber Pet may seem like an incremental update. But when you consider the size of the pet industry, it really does make sense — 36% of households in the U.S. own a dog, meaning that Uber Pet could remove a fair bit of travel friction for a lot of people.
Uber’s existing pet policy requires drivers to accept service dogs only — that is, dogs trained to help someone with a disability, such as visual impairment. Aside from that, it’s left to the driver’s discretion whether they accept a rider’s pet inside their car, which is why Uber has so far recommended that riders contact their driver in advance to let them know they’d like to bring an animal with them.
With Uber Pet, the ride-hailing giant is now looking to smooth the communications process between riders and drivers regarding pet transport.
Uber Pet has actually been made available previously in a number of Latin American countries, including Brazil and Mexico , as well as a handful of Asian markets. The service was launched in Singapore back in 2017, but when local ride-hailing company Grab took over Uber’s Southeast Asia operations the following year, Uber’s pet-focused offering seemed a casualty of the merger.
Now Uber is preparing to bring the service to its biggest market — the U.S.
Starting on October 16, riders in Austin, Denver, Nashville, Minneapolis-St. Paul, Philadelphia, Phoenix, and Tampa Bay will see a new Uber Pet option inside the ride-hailing app. By hitting this button, the rider agrees to pay a surcharge — between $3 and $5, depending on the city.
Above: Uber Pet According to Uber, most of this surcharge will go directly to the driver, which should give them sufficient incentive to accept rides that include pets. Drivers are opted into accepting Uber Pet rides by default, but they can opt out from within the preferences menu of their driver app.
It’s worth noting that Uber Pet doesn’t impact the company’s existing pet policy — Uber drivers are still required to accept all service dog rides, without any surcharges applied.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
