Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Exclusive Quantic Dream hires exec to round up third-party developers Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Quantic Dream's Detroit: Become Human pushed the edge on face animation.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Quantic Dream has hired game veteran Sebastien Motte to help run third-party development relations as the company expands beyond PlayStation.
Paris-based Quantic Dream — maker of Heavy Rain, Beyond: Two Souls, and Detroit: Become Human — recently received a minority investment from China’s NetEase and announced it would expand beyond Sony’s PlayStation business. Now it plans to publish games from third-party developers.
“Quantic Dream has been an independent, triple-A developer for the past 22 years,” Motte said. “With the NetEase investment, we are fully independent again. We are able to self-fund future development on multiple projects. And more importantly, with better digital distribution channels, there is an opportunity to become more independent and self publish.” Above: Quantic Dream’s Sebastien Motte Motte has been involved in the game and tech business for decades. Most recently, he served as a business development and strategy consultant at Mintonic.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Before that, he served in business development at Unity and was CEO of mixed reality design studio Loook. He also served in business development and other roles for 16 years at Microsoft’s game studios.
Motte will report to Guillaume de Fondaumière and David Cage, co-CEOs of Quantic Dream.
For 12 years, Quantic Dream made original titles for Sony’s PlayStation consoles. But Quantic Dream recently announced that Heavy Rain, Beyond: Two Souls, and Detroit: Become Human, exclusively on the Epic Games Store. All three titles are now available for pre-order.
Above: Jodie, voiced by Ellen Page, is the star character of Beyond: Two Souls “By being able to self-publish our titles moving forward, we have put together an expert publishing team from different companies,” Motte said. “That is why I am in the picture. We also would like to offer our services to other independent studios that have strong backing and would like to have a strong direct-to-consumer relationship.” He added, “There is more room for independent developers to find their connections directly with players through digital distribution platforms. With the emergence of cloud gaming platforms, there will be more ability for developers and publishers to own their own destinies and manage their relationships with gamers. It’s exciting times.” Motte said the company might publish one or two additional titles per year from third parties. He said the company’s strength is in interactive narration and it will look for games that align with its creative sensibility, or unique original games with high production quality, passion, and emotion.
Quantic Dream has highly sophisticated motion-capture facilities in France and character development is one of its big skills.
“We like meaningful games that are unique and original,” he said.
He said the company will focus on North American and European markets, but it will seek creativity out anywhere. Motte will remain based in Seattle.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
