Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Opinion ProBeat: Enough with the government facial recognition Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
A U.S. government study released this week found that 189 facial recognition algorithms from 99 developers “falsely identified African-American and Asian faces 10 to 100 times more often than Caucasian faces.” Enough. This should be the last such study. We are long overdue for federal governments to regulate or outright ban facial recognition.
This year, the NYPD ran a picture of actor Woody Harrelson through a facial recognition system because officers thought the suspect seen in drug store camera footage resembled the actor. This year China used facial recognition to track its Uighur Muslim population.
 Next year, we will hopefully realize that all facial recognition in the government’s hands is dangerous.
Facial recognition for personal use is still problematic, but at least that’s a person’s choice. Every day I use Windows Hello to unlock my computer and Face Unlock on my Pixel 4 XL.
 There are plenty of problems with those and similar technologies, but I can turn them off whenever I want.
When the government is using facial recognition, it’s much harder to opt out. Or it’s impossible. Should facial recognition be used on public transportation? What about security checks at the train station and airport? By the police? No, no, and hell no.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Facial recognition is wrong way too frequently, biased from the get-go, and overall just unreliable. Can it be improved? Sure. Should it be influencing government decisions? Nope. Even when — not if — the technology does get much better, there are plenty of privacy and ethical issues to work through.
Various local governments have already banned it.
 It’s time for federal governments to follow suit.
Come on, politicians, this should be an easy one. Remember, facial recognition regulation is bipartisan.
ProBeat is a column in which Emil rants about whatever crosses him that week.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
