Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon acquires smart doorbell maker Ring, reportedly for over $1 billion Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Ring Doorbell 2 Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Amazon has acquired Ring, maker of smart home doorbells, cameras, and security systems, GeekWire reports.
 The company was acquired for more than $1 billion, according to Reuters.
 The acquisition may be announced later today and was likely made to fuel its fight for the emerging in-home delivery and in-home services market.
Amazon debuted its in-home delivery service Key and Cloud Cam in October 2017.
 Then Assa Abloy, owner of some of the world’s largest lock companies, acquired August Home , following the start of its in-home delivery trial.
August Home began to experiment with in-home services in 2015 to grant access to repair personnel or plumbers, as well as to facilitate vacation rentals from companies like Airbnb and HomeAway.
Amazon reportedly wanted to acquire August Homes for $100 million in 2016, according to The Information.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The Ring acquisition could also support the spread of Alexa to more smart home devices. Amazon’s move follows Google’s effort to consolidate Nest into its hardware team and add Google Assistant to more of its smart home products. Last week Nest IQ Cam Indoor became the first Nest product to adopt Google Assistant support.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
