Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon proposes a home robot that asks you questions when it’s confused Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
AI models invariably encounter ambiguous situations that they struggle to respond to with instructions alone. That’s problematic for autonomous agents tasked with, say, navigating an apartment, because they run the risk of becoming stuck when presented with several paths.
To solve this, researchers at Amazon’s Alexa AI division developed a framework that endows agents with the ability to ask for help in certain situations. Using what’s called a model-confusion-based method, the agents ask questions based on their level of confusion as determined by a predefined confidence threshold, which the researchers claim boosts the agents’ success by at least 15%.
“Consider the situation in which you want a robot assistant to get your wallet on the bed … with two doors in the scene and an instruction that only tells it to walk through the doorway,” wrote the team in a preprint paper describing their work. “In this situation, it is clearly difficult for the robot to know exactly through which door to enter. If, however, the robot is able to discuss the situation with the user, the situational ambiguity can be resolved.” The team’s framework employs two agent models: Model Confusion, which mimics human user behavior under confusion, and Action Space Augmentation, a more sophisticated algorithm that automatically learns to ask only necessary questions at the right time during navigation. Human interaction data is used to fine-tune the second model further so that it becomes familiar with the environment.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Whenever the agent — in the case of this study, a robot navigating a simulated home — becomes lost during navigation, it sends out the signal “I am lost, please help me!” to a user and asks for help. As the user provides answers to the robot’s subsequent questions, the Action Space Augmentation corrects originally wrong trajectories, using the feedback to prevent future mistakes of the same kind. The team reported that the robot adjusted dynamically to unclear and erroneous human responses.
The researchers compiled a data set containing 21,567 navigation instructions (14,025 of which were used for training; 1,020 for validation in seen environments; and 2,349 in unseen environments), with an instruction vocabulary consisting of around 3,100 words. They evaluated the robot on both its success rate and the number of steps taken, where “success” constituted a navigation error of less than 3 meters.
The team said that their proposed strategy was “substantially” more data-efficient than previously proposed pre-exploration techniques that involve robots exploring environments on their own. “We are among the first to introduce human-agent interaction in the instruction-based navigation task,” they wrote. “[This] data augmentation method … is useful in a continual learning scenario [because the] agent can improve its performance continually in customers’ home[s].” The work might inform Amazon’s long-rumored home robot, which Bloomberg described in a report last year as akin to the Echo Show — albeit with wheels. Code-named Vesta after the Roman goddess of the hearth, it’s said to pack far-field microphones and speakers that enable it to understand and respond to the thousands of commands Alexa recognizes and to be able to navigate through homes using computer vision and techniques like simultaneous localization and mapping.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
