Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Pokémon Sword and Shield get Expansion Pass content Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The new content coming to Sword and Shield.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Pokémon Sword and Shield are both getting new content that will tell fresh stories set in the same region. This is a big change for the franchise, which has previously released separate games to expand on its settings. The Pokémon Sword and Shield Expansion Passes replace that with downloadable content that enable players to pick up their adventure from where they left off in the base games.
The Expansion Pass includes two new major content drops. One is The Isle of Armor, and the other is The Crown Tundra. Both include new monsters to catch as well as the return of more than 200 old favorite Pokémon. You’ll also get new character customization options and more. These new areas are seamless add-ons to the map that are similar to the wild area in Sword and Shield. The Expansion Pass is available to purchase today for $30.
The Isle of Armor comes in June. The Crown Tundra launches in the fall. Both come as part of the Expansion Pass for each game — but the Sword and Shield versions of the DLC are different and must be purchased separately.
“Until now, we sometimes released new versions of games set in the same region,” Game Freak producer Junichi Masuda said in a video presentation this morning. “This expansion pass will be different from those games. You’ll be able to set out on new adventures using the same data you’re already playing.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! This move toward an expansion model is something more major Japanese games are embracing. Like Pokémon, Monster Hunter used to release new versions of games with extra content. Capcom abandoned that in favor of downloadable expansions for Monster Hunter World. Now, Game Freak is doing the same.
Sword and Shield originally debuted November 15 for Nintendo Switch. The games set sales records for the franchise in terms of dollar sales.
 A large part of that is these are the first main-series Pokémon games to sell for $60 instead of $30 or $40.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
