Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Huawei passes 200 million smartphones shipped, outpacing 2018 by 2 months Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Huawei @ MWC 2019 Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Huawei announced that it has shipped 200 million smartphones so far in 2019 — hitting the milestone 64 days faster than in 2018.
The Chinese technology giant has unveiled a number of new devices so far this year, including high-end flagship devices under the Huawei brand, a future-looking foldable 5G device , and smartphones from its Honor sub-brand.
 However, Huawei was placed on a U.S. trade blacklist earlier this year that prohibits all U.S. companies from doing business with the Chinese tech giant — including Google , which is currently unable to provide Huawei with Android services that are integral to Huawei mobile phones outside of China.
While this ban doesn’t impact existing Huawei devices, which will continue to receive Android updates, it has affected newer phones, including the high-end Mate 30 series that launched last month but is still unavailable to buy internationally. Assuming nothing changes in terms of the U.S. trade blacklist, Huawei will have to ship all future phones without Google’s apps, including Google Play and the millions of third-party apps that are available through the app store.
So while Huawei is laying early claim to a bumper 2019, the effects of the trade ban haven’t likely been fully felt yet. If the U.S. trade ban remains in place, it’s difficult to see how Huawei’s consumer business can continue to grow outside of China. That said, the company has reportedly enjoyed a major uptick in sales in its domestic market as patriotic Chinese consumers back Huawei against the U.S.-imposed sanctions, so any drop in global sales could be offset — temporarily, at least — by sales at home.
Huawei is currently the No. 2 smartphone company globally in terms of shipments, ahead of Apple but behind Samsung. When Huawei announced its 200 million milestone for 2018, the company was confident it could surpass Samsung as the No. 1 smartphone company by the end of 2019, in terms of shipments. Based on 2019 estimates so far , that prediction is looking very unlikely to materialize.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
