Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Nintendo upgrades fiscal-year forecast as Switch hits 52.5 million consoles sold Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Nintendo Switch is riding high.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Nintendo said it is upgrading its forecast for profits in the fiscal year ending March 31, thanks to strong sales of the Nintendo Switch and games that run on it.
Nintendo said that its revenues would hit $11.48 billion in the fiscal year, about the same as it had predicted in October. But the Kyoto, Japan-based video game company said its operating profit would be $2.75 billion, up from a previous forecast of $2.38 billion.
Switch sales As of December, the Nintendo Switch has sold 52.5 million to date, with software hitting 310.6 million copies sold as of December 31, 2019. The Nintendo 3DS has sold 75.7 million units and 382.2 million copies of software.
The Switch is far more successful than the predecessor Wii U, which only sold 13.56 million units and 103 million copies of software.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Meanwhile, Nintendo said that it has sold 22.96 million copies of Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, 17.68 million copies of Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, and 16.59 million copies of Super Mario Odyssey. The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild has sold 16.34 million copies, and Pokémon Sword/Pokémon Shield have sold 16.06 million copies.
Nine month results Above: Nintendo Switch Lite and other stuff that goes in my pocket.
For the nine months ended December 31, Nintendo reported sales of $9.39 billion, up from $9.16 billion a year earlier. Operating profit was $2.41 billion, compared with $2.02 billion a year earlier. Net profit was $1.80 billion, compared with $1.55 billion a year earlier.
During the nine months, Nintendo launched its Nintendo Switch Lite handheld system, and the launch didn’t hurt Switch sales, resulting in sales growth for the whole Switch family, Nintendo said.
Other details and forecasts So far, Nintendo and other publishers have had 21 titles that have sold more than a million units in the current fiscal year.
Hardware unit sales in the nine months ended December 31 were 17.74 million, up 22.5% from a year earlier. Software sales were 123.13 million units, up 30.1%.
Nintendo Switch Online and other digital revenues were up 48% from a year earlier, and the mobile business saw revenue rise 10.6%.
Nintendo is forecasting that it will sell 19.5 million Switch units during the fiscal year ending March 31. Of that, Nintendo expects it will 5.2 million Switch Lite units.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
