Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Niantic launches Pokémon Go’s competitive battling league Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Pokémon Go gets Battle League Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Pokémon Go is coming off its most lucrative year ever in 2019.
 And now developer Niantic is working to keep that momentum going in 2020 by improving the augmented reality adventure’s competitive battle system. This is beginning now with the launch of Pokémon Go Battle League, which is rolling out slowly across the globe.
The Go Battle League is a new way for players to face off against one another. It takes the Trainer Battle system and adds a new structure that enables players to face off against one another from around the world. Niantic is also shifting its Premium Raid Passes to Premium Battle Passes. Like many other games, this progression pass will enable players to earn a premium track of unlockables by participating in the games events.
Once your game updates with Go Battles, you will need to go out and walk 5 kilometers (3.1 miles) to unlock the event. Of course, if you have more money than time, you can pay to open it up before completing the required distance. But every kilometer you walk reduces the final cost.
For Niantic, this is a way to both serve up new content to its most dedicated players. But it’s also a way to further expand its method of generating revenue. Now, instead of selling just raid passes, players can get more from the game by spending money to battle other trainers as well.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Pokémon Go has already brought in more than $3 billion in revenue since its original debut.
 And this latest update could lead it yet another billion.
How Pokémon Go Battle League works Go Battle League has a seasonal structure. As it launches today, it is entering a preseason phase. But this testing period will still enable players to rank up and earn rewards by competing.
The preseason will also give players a chance to get some experience with Go Battle’s rotating subleagues. These include Great League, Ultra League, and Master League. Each of these sub-leagues will introduce slightly different formats. And the idea is to prevent any one style of play from dominating the competitive ladder.
“Only one league will be available at a time, and they will all rotate throughout a season,” reads a Niantic blog post.
 “This means that in order to be the best, you need to be able to win in all three formats.” But the preseason is also crucial to help the studio refine how Go Battle League is going to work.
“With your help, we will be able to optimize and balance the Go Battle League feature during this time,” reads the Niantic blog. “We will also be taking this time to learn about how the Go Battle League is being used in order to determine things like ideal length of seasons, rating thresholds for ranks, and more.” While this is all launching today, you may have to wait a bit longer to actually get it in your game. Niantic says it is rolling it out based on player level. So if you haven’t played recently, it may take a bit longer.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
