Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Snapchat boosts Lens Studio with new Landmarkers, templates, and guides Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The new version of Lens Studio includes 16 more Landmarker locations.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
While the Snapchat mobile app is Snap’s most popular offering, its desktop app Lens Studio lets users easily create augmented reality lenses that can be applied on the go. Today, Lens Studio is adding a collection of new features designed to appeal to a wider range of creators — inexperienced newbies and pro 3D modelers alike — including Landmarker template support for 14 new real-world locations, six new facial templates, and an interactive tour for first-time app users.
As true AR goes, the new Landmarker templates are perhaps the most compelling. They provide creators with examples of how real-world locations can be augmented with digital content such as persistent decorations and special effects; the assets can be customized for current locations or adapted for use at other places. And as shown in the screenshot above, regular Snapchat users will be able to see the Landmarkers live starting today, if they’re lucky enough to be in one of 11 countries: Czech Republic, at Prague’s Astronomical Clock Egypt, at the Great Sphinx of Giza France, at Paris’ Arc de Triomphe Germany, at Berlin’s Brandenburg Gate or Munich’s Neues Rathaus India, at Agra’s Taj Mahal or Mumbai’s Gateway of India Italy, at the Leaning Tower of Pisa Mexico, at Chichen Itza’s El Castillo Saudi Arabia, at Mada’in Saleh’s Qasr Al-Farid Turkey, at Istanbul’s Galata Tower United Kingdom, at London’s National History Museum or Tower Bridge, and United States, at the Statue of Liberty Snap has also added six new facial Lens templates to the existing collection of 40 options. Face In Video adds a live face onto a video, Portrait Particles produces customized particle effects that appear behind a live head, and Countdown creates a timer to celebrate a given date with 3D hats and glasses. Additionally, a Skeletal frame tracker adds 2D images to heads, necks, shoulders, elbows, and hands, while Hair Color automatically recolors the user’s hair and an AR Make-Up feature adds lipstick, blush, eyeshadow, and other effects.
Beyond making fun AR effects for users to play with, it’s been clear for some time that Snap is actively working to deepen its footprint in the AR creative and marketing spaces. The company saw success last year with musician-focused AR lenses , and later worked to broaden brands’ access to people with experience crafting Snapchat AR content. Over 500,000 Lenses have been developed since Lens Studio launched in late 2017.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The last new additions to Lens Studio attempt to make it easier for companies and marketing firms to dip their toes into the shallow end of the AR pool. Snap is adding an interactive step-by-step tour of the app that can be used on first load, helping first-time creators to understand how to get started. Additional interface tweaks spotlight new features and templates alongside particularly noteworthy Lenses that were previously released.
Snap’s new version of Lens Studio is available for free download today. It works on machines running Windows 10 and macOS 10.11 or later.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
