Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages You can now preorder Apple’s AirPods (and start worrying about losing them) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Apple AirPods and iPhone 7 Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
First they were launching in October.
 Then they were delayed.
 And then it looked like Apple might not release them at all this year. But now they’re here, sort of: Apple’s Airpods are finally available for preorder.
At the time of writing, Apple’s site said the wireless headphones will ship to customers on December 29, just in time to miss Christmas. You can buy the earbuds the entire world is terrified about losing right here.
The cause for delay, according to the Wall Street Journal , was due to Bluetooth connectivity problems — making Apple’s “ magical ” new earbuds sound … a lot like any old pair of wireless headphones. Apple watcher John Gruber questioned the report, suggesting instead that the company has possibly “run into a manufacturing problem.” Update 7:41 am. PT: Now the ship time reads “4 weeks.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
