Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon Prime discounts for Whole Foods purchases will cover the whole U.S. from June 27 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Amazon is expanding its Prime member discount program to cover all Whole Foods stores in the U.S. from June 27.
The ecommerce giant first started offering Amazon Prime members a 10 percent discount on some Whole Foods purchases in Florida back in May, and it has been slowly expanding the offering to other states around the country in the six weeks since. Now all 365 Whole Foods stores in the U.S. will offer 10 percent off “hundreds of sale items” that are marked with yellow stickers and “deep discounts” on other products from this week.
Vortex Amazon’s huge shift into the brick-and-mortar realm kicked off last June with its $13.7 billion acquisition of the natural foods supermarket chain. The company wasted little time in leveraging its acquisition once the deal closed in August, including slashing Whole Foods pricing and selling its own hardware at the outlets. Earlier this year, Amazon also started offering free Whole Foods deliveries in the U.S.
within 2 hours through Prime Now.
Ultimately, Amazon wants to hook customers into its ecommerce ecosystem, with its annual Prime membership serving as the glue to keep people onboard. Amazon is already buying up the TV rights to packages for sports, including tennis and soccer, to make access to Prime TV an additional incentive for buying a Prime membership. And Whole Foods discounts fit into that broader scheme — it’s one extra perk for joining Prime and one more way to get consumers into the Amazon vortex.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “Since launching Prime savings at Whole Foods Market, we’ve seen excitement and momentum from both Prime members and our supplier partners,” noted Whole Foods Market president and COO A.C. Gallo, in a press release.
 “Our weekly Prime member deals are a hit, and we’re excited that Prime members across the U.S. will now be able to take advantage of these savings in our stores.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
