Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Secret Oops makes its AR debut on Apple Arcade Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Secret Oops Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Game studio MixedBag is unveiling its Secret Oops augmented reality game today on Apple Arcade.
The AR title is the fourth AR game on Apple Arcade, joining Spek from developer RAC7, Rosie’s Reality from developer RosieReality, and Possesions from developer Noodlecake (a noted mobile publisher and developer known for excellent games like Super Stickman Golf).
Secret Oops is a co-op action game in which players use AR to make sure that the world’s dumbest spy evades his foes. When a new threat arises, and briefcases start to disappear all over the world, the S.P.Y. Agency (which has the honor of being the only spy agency in the world run by … pigeons), sends its best agent to investigate: Special Agent Charles.
Charles is the best spy in the world, but … he’s also as dumb as a rock. Security cameras? Deadly traps? Dangerous robot-guards? Charles will trigger them all, and he’ll do it with glee.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Above: Help the dumbest spy escape in Secret Oops.
As the player, you help him. Gather with family and friends, place the virtual game board and use AR to move around, interact with the virtual world, talk, and cooperate with the other players to devise the perfect plan and execute it. Players need careful planning and perfect coordination to succeed: communication is the key.
At launch, Secret Oops will offer two game worlds with 35 levels for up to four players.
Secret Oops AR functionalities are powered by Apple’s ARKit 3, while the cartoon game world is built on top of the Metal 2 graphic applications programming interface.
MixedBag will add more worlds, levels, game mechanics and extras in the following months.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
