Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VRenetic is Independence Day director Roland Emmerich’s new VR venture Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Independence Day director Roland Emmerich just launched his own VR company. No, really.
Emmerich is the chairman and co-founder of a new VR media outfit named VRenetic that aims to make 360 degree broadcasting accessible and affordable to everyone. The company has its own free app, VResh, that allows for real-time streaming of panoramic video with the use of a proprietary smartphone-connected camera. It’s powered by the company’s own Media Engine, which it plans to utilize in other apps developed both in-house and with partners.
Here’s a idyllic promotional spot set in an alternate universe where people who put a VR headset on during a bus ride to catch up with their friends on a beach.
The company claims is broadcasting is usable with average data connections, which could be key to its success if true. Streaming panoramic images is an intensive process, with much more data to channel than a standard screen.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Not only that, but VRenetic will be releasing its own VR headset to support the platform. The device looks about as bare-bones as they come, with literally only the lenses and a minimalist frame to hold the smartphone, but that’s sort of the point of it all.
Ultimately it’s an idea we’ve seen before; affordable headsets and 360 degree cameras aren’t anything new, though perhaps in the combination of the two VRenetic is onto something. You can currently sign-up to beta test the new app, though prices for the company’s hardware haven’t yet been announced.
This story originally appeared on Uploadvr.com.
 Copyright 2017 VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
