Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Zynga launches Breast Cancer Awareness Month campaign in Words With Friends Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Words With Hope was a Zynga campaign to fight breast cancer.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Zynga is kicking off a month-long initiative supporting Breast Cancer Awareness Month in its Words With Friends social mobile game.
The event is Words With Hope, and the San Francisco game publisher will use it to highlight a word of hope and corresponding statements from people whose lives have been touched by breast cancer.
“We’ve all seen the statistics; 1-in-8 women in the U.S. will receive a breast cancer diagnosis in their lifetime,” said Deepthi Menon, senior vice president of Words With Friends at Zynga, in a statement. ”And we’ve seen the power that community can have in bolstering strength, courage, and humor during times of illness. Over the years, our players have shared their stories of friendship and support that they’ve found in Words With Friends, and we’re proud to be joined by these incredible, esteemed women to spotlight this cause that touches so many.” The timing of the campaign is not great in one respect.
Zynga acknowledged that it has been hacked recently, and a hacker claimed the breach netted the personal data of 218 million Words With Friends users. An investigation is pending.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Above: Zynga’s campaign personalizes the fight on breast cancer.
Players don’t get a special incentive for playing with the word of the day (WOTD). In this case, the idea is to raise awareness about breast cancer.
Celebrities joining in the campaign include Talia Balsam, Pat Benatar, Sharon Byers, Katie Couric, Regina Dugan, EMM, Roxane Gay, Melissa Gilbert, Neil Giraldo, Judy Greer, Sally Hawkins, Alice Hoffman, Olivia Newton-John, Betsey Johnson, Billie Jean King, Purnima Kochikar, Sharon Lawrence, Julianna Margulies, Deepthi Menon, Carol Mills, Alanis Morissette, Phuong Phillips, Amy Poehler, Melissa Rivers, Janice Roberts, Kendra Scott, Ellen Siminoff, Jaclyn Smith, Taryn Southern, Mindy Sterling, Alison Sweeney, Chandra Wilson, Rita Wilson, and Trisha Yearwood.
Above: Taryn Southern’s word of the day.
“Awareness and early detection are powerful tools for improving breast cancer outcomes — but words are powerful, too,” said Dr. Richard Wender, chief cancer control officer of the American Cancer Society, in a statement. “During October’s Breast Cancer Awareness Month, as well as year-round, keep words of support, compassion, caring and hope at the forefront, as we continue to battle this disease that affects so many of the people we love.” For more information about Breast Cancer Awareness Month and other ways to get involved, visit go here.
 The #WordsWithHope campaign begins today with iconic singer and actress Olivia Newton-John, and her word, “thriver.” GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
