Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Two Bit Circus unveils developer program for location-based entertainment Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Two Bit Circus is a micro-amusement park in downtown LA.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Two Bit Circus has opened a “Park as a Platform” program to enable game developers to create location-based entertainment more quickly and easily.
During its development, Two Bit Circus ‘ founders Brent Bushnell (son of Atari cofounder Nolan Bushnell) and Eric Gradman realized that some traditional approaches to game development were slowing innovation and hindering the ability of developers to get their content out into the world, particularly in location-based entertainment.
To support the developer community and increase the potential for innovation, Two Bit Circus is launching its Park as a Platform in downtown Los Angeles.
“Getting a game in front of the public requires a lot of resources that many developers don’t have access to,” said Eric Gradman, cofounder of Two Bit Circus and chief technology officer, in a statement. “Imagine the possible variety of public games and experiences if more developers had the resources to explore LBE. We hope that by erasing some of the obstacles and encouraging the community, we can support developers and increase the diversity of fun.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! This new program is designed to provide developers with a streamlined approach to adapting games and experiences for location-based entertainment (LBE). Developers in the program will be able to leverage Two Bit Circus’ 38,000 square-feet “micro-amusement park” as a physical development and publishing platform.
Above: Eric Gradman at the Two Bit Circus’ former headquarters.
Out-of-home entertainment (location-based entertainment) is becoming increasingly popular, yet traditional approaches are limiting the quantity of innovative content that’s available. By connecting developers directly with patrons of their micro-amusement park, Two Bit Circus’ Program creates access to revenue, awareness, and enthusiastic beta testers.
Through the Park as a Platform Program, Two Bit Circus aims to smooth the path to public exhibition and create a test lab for both large and small developers, ultimately allowing the world access to a greater variety of social gaming experiences.
The Platform Program launches with numerous projects, including Death Squared, a puzzle game from SMG Studio, first released for consoles; Hidden in Plain Sight, a stealth party game from indie developer Adam Spragg; ClusterPuck 99, a digital air hockey game from PHL Collective; and Line Wobbler, a one-dimensional dungeon crawler controlled with a door stop from Robin Baumgarten.
As a first step toward entering the Program, developers are invited to submit their products to be featured at one of Two Bit Circus’ Beta Nights — where enthusiastic locals come out to play and test new content. The Two Bit team reviews submissions to find games with the potential to create great new experiences and get people playing elbow-to-elbow. With a community of support, Two Bit Circus aims to encourage developers, increase the potential for innovation, and ultimately allow the world access to a greater variety of engaging and social gaming experiences.
The Park as a Platform Program is being announced at Gamesbeat Summit 2019.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
