Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Exclusive SAP is acquiring big data startup Altiscale for over $125 million Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Altiscale team in 2015.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Enterprise software company SAP is acquiring Altiscale , a startup that offers a cloud-based version of the Hadoop open source software for storing, processing, and analyzing lots of different kinds of data, VentureBeat has learned. News of the deal should be announced in the next few weeks.
The deal could be valued above $125 million. The investors are slated to receive three to four times as much money as they have put in, a source familiar with the matter told VentureBeat. The startup has raised at least $42 million in venture capital, including a $30 million round announced in December 2014. Investors include Accel Partners, AME Cloud Ventures, Northgate, General Catalyst Partners, Sequoia Capital, and Wildcat Venture Partners.
SAP has taken steps to enhance its cloud software portfolio. This deal gives SAP one of the best known providers in the category called Hadoop as a service. Altiscale’s founder and chief executive, Raymie Stata, sold his company Stata Labs to Yahoo in 2004 and worked on the deployment of the Hadoop software within Yahoo. Stata and his team could be useful for SAP as competitors like IBM and Microsoft put a higher priority on cloud.
Altiscale’s competitors include Qubole and Xplenty. Amazon Web Services (AWS), the top public cloud infrastructure provider, also offers a distribution of Hadoop. In addition to a cloud implementation of Hadoop, Altiscale also provides a cloud version of Apache Spark, a faster, more modern alternative to Hadoop, which relies on the MapReduce framework — and that means it goes up against Databricks , the startup that has popularized Spark and offers Spark in the cloud.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The promise of running this software in the cloud is that companies don’t need to add lots of new servers, storage, and networking infrastructure in data centers to take advantage of it and employ people who are well versed in dealing with the software.
In March Altiscale introduced the Insight Cloud service, which enables business-intelligence tools like Tableau to hook into and query data from Hadoop and Spark clusters.
Altiscale started in 2012 and is based in Palo Alto, California. It was initially called VertiCloud. The company grew to more than 90 employees, although several employees have left this year. Customers include Devicescape, Glu Mobile, MarketShare, and ShareThis.
SAP declined to comment. Altiscale did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
Update on September 9: SAP announced its Altiscale acquisition during a town hall meeting for employees in the Bay Area on September 6; tweets from the SAP Silicon Valley account show Altiscale employees onstage at the event alongside SAP executive board member Bernd Leukert.
A full house welcomes newly acquired @Altiscale to the SAP family during today's Town Hall w/ @LeukertB & @UXSamYen pic.twitter.com/SRfw2aR67U — SAP Silicon Valley (@SAPsv) September 7, 2016 Thank you @Altiscale , @LeukertB & @UXSamYen for today's discussion with SAPsv employees pic.twitter.com/x2XtmmM7E2 — SAP Silicon Valley (@SAPsv) September 7, 2016 SAP would not provide further comment.
Update on September 21: The German business newspaper Handelsblatt reported that Leukert talked about the acquisition on September 20 at the annual conference of the German SAP user group Deutschsprachige SAP-Anwendergruppe (DSAG).
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
