Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple has removed almost 42,000 games so far in App Store licensing purge in China Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Niko Partners foresees a lot of growth for China's mobile games.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
To comply with Chinese law, Apple has removed nearly 42,000 games from the App Store in China since July 1 because these apps didn’t have proper licenses.
Market researcher Niko Partners found that Apple removed 14,914 games in July ahead of a July 31 deadline to comply with a 2016 regulation that requires games to have a publishing license (International Standard Book Number, or ISBN) to operate in China. It removed another 26,815 games August 1.
Android stores (which Chinese companies own) have been fully compliant with this law, while Apple has enabled some games to operate on the store without a verified ISBN. Compliance means that Apple had to remove the games this summer. The Chinese National Press and Publication Administration is responsible for the approvals, and it reviews games for reasons such as censorship or compliance with Chinese cultural tastes regarding taboo subjects, such as including skulls in games.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Niko expects any remaining unlicensed titles to be removed by the end of December, analyst Daniel Ahmad said in a message. China is the largest mobile game market in the world with 637 million players and iOS mobile games having generated $12.6 billion in 2019, Niko said.
China has been very slow to approve new games and grant licenses. If Chinese regulators stay on the current pace, they will approve a relatively small number of publication licenses this year.
Niko Partners analysts reviewed the top iOS games in China when Apple first made the announcement and found that 97 of the top 100 grossing games on the China App Store have legal ISBNs. Foreign companies must have a Chinese game publisher apply to get an ISBN from the Chinese National Press and Publication Administration. That process takes about 80 business days, according to publisher Cocos.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
