Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Snowflake raises $45M and makes its cloud data warehouse generally available Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Snowflake Computing chief executive Bob Muglia, left.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Snowflake Computing , a startup that has built data warehouse software based in the Amazon Web Services cloud, announced a new $45 million funding round and made its software generally available.
Snowflake made a big splash when it came out of stealth mode in October with $26 million in funding and a superstar chief executive, Microsoft veteran Bob Muglia.
Since then, Microsoft itself introduced the Azure SQL Data Warehouse service , which is roughly comparable to the service Snowflake has developed.
Meanwhile Amazon Web Services, where Snowflake’s software currently resides, offers the Redshift cloud data warehouse service.
 And there are other cloud data warehousing startups, such as BitYota.
Snowflake Computing started in 2012 and is based in San Mateo, Calif. To date the startup has raised at least $71 million.
Altimeter Capital, Redpoint Ventures, Sutter Hill Ventures, and Wing Ventures participated in the new funding round.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
