Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Palantir IPO filing reveals 2019 loss of $580 million Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Palantir Technologies CEO Alex Karp Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
(Reuters) – Palantir Technologies on Tuesday filed to go public through a direct listing, as the data analytics company known for working with the Central Intelligence Agency and other government groups prepares for one of the biggest market debuts of the year.
The company, which was founded in 2003 by a group including Donald Trump backer Peter Thiel, unveiled losses that are set to test the appetite of capital market investors who have in recent years shown an increasing wariness of backing loss-making startups, most notably WeWork, which botched its IPO last year.
The move to lift the lid on its business for the first time marked a major moment for Palantir, which is widely seen as one of the most reclusive companies in Silicon Valley.
The company reported a net loss of about $580 million in 2019, about the same as its loss in 2018. Revenue came in at $742 million last year, compared to $595 million in 2018.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! For the first six months of 2020, the company posted revenue of $481 million, up 49% from the year-earlier period. In June, Reuters reported, citing sources, that the company expects revenue in 2020 to grow to $1 billion.
“Notwithstanding losses, its business model continues to leverage off existing clients by offering more value through better data on longer duration contracts,” said Matt Novak, managing partner at All Blue Capital, a Palantir investor.
The Thiel-backed firm had confidentially filed to go public in July.
As opposed to a traditional initial public offering, a direct listing does not raise fresh funds. In a direct-listing model, existing investors get to sell their shares.
Palantir, which derives its name from a magical artifact in The Lord of the Rings , specializes in analyzing large quantities of data. The company is widely seen as a tech firm with a rebellious streak by Silicon Valley and recently decided to move its headquarters to Denver.
“Our company was founded in Silicon Valley. But we seem to share fewer and fewer of the technology sector’s values and commitments,” Palantir said in its filing.
Thiel, known for his tech investing credentials as a cofounder of PayPal and Facebook’s first major investor, is the chair of Palantir, with fellow cofounder Alexander Karp the current CEO.
Thiel was also an early investor in LinkedIn and part of the “ Paypal Mafia” in Silicon Valley, referring to a group of highly successful entrepreneurs who went on to start and invest in prominent tech startups.
Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse, and Goldman Sachs are among the financial advisers for Palantir’s listing.
(Reporting by Anirban Sen in Bengaluru and Joshua Franklin in New York, additional reporting by Shariq Khan and Niket Nishant. Editing by Shounak Dasgupta.) VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
