Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Luminar will supply lidar for Volvo’s driverless vehicle platform Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Luminar Technologies today announced a partnership with Volvo that will see the former’s lidar sensors integrated into the roof of the automaker’s Scalable Product Architecture 2 (SPA2) vehicle platform, which is expected to launch in 2022. The two companies also plan to explore the sensors’ role in improving future advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS), with the potential for equipping select future Volvo cars with lidar sensors as standard.
Volvo — which says it’s also reserving the right to increase its minority stake in Luminar — confirmed the company as a public partner and a “significant” investor two years ago, but the carmaker’s commitment promises to kick off the largest commercial launch of Luminar’s tech to date. That’s good news not only for Luminar but for future Volvo customers, potentially, who stand to reap the benefits of the sophisticated Iris lidar system.
Luminar’s Iris is a full-stack platform and ADAS add-on developed by a team of engineers in Palo Alto, California and Orlando, Florida, led by VP of software Christoph Schroeder, the former head of R&D from Mercedes-Benz’s North America division. Iris bundles hardware and software into a single package, and it comes in two flavors: a more technologically sophisticated version that powers hands-free “freeway autonomy,” and a cheaper ADAS version that provides autonomous functions like emergency braking and steering.
Volvo says that Iris — in tandem with cameras, radars, and backup systems for steering, braking, and power — will underpin the SPA2’s Highway Pilot feature, which is designed to enable fully autonomous highway driving in specific locations and conditions. (Volvo originally planned to launch Highway Pilot in 2021 with its XC90 SUVs , but production is now expected to begin in 2022.) Volvo SVP of research and development Henrik Green previously said that Highway Pilot will be an optional over-the-air upgrade for car owners and cost around “four figures.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “Soon, your Volvo will be able to drive autonomously on highways when the car determines it is safe to do so,” said Green in a statement. “At that point, your Volvo takes responsibility for the driving and you can relax, take your eyes off the road and your hands off the wheel. Over time, updates over the air will expand the areas in which the car can drive itself. For us, a safe introduction of autonomy is a gradual introduction.” Compared with rivals like Alphabet’s Waymo, Volvo’s path toward fully driverless cars has been riddled with setbacks and detours. The Sweden-based automaker, which sells ADAS solutions to Daimler, Ford, and Honda, among others, pushed back plans to provide families in Sweden, U.K., and China access to driverless vehicles as a part of a pilot program, and it recently said it would split its autonomous driving development arm Zenuity into two separate entities in a bid to accelerate development of its Pilot Assist self-driving system.
As for Luminar, the strengthened collaboration with Volvo comes after the debut of Hydra , a subscription-based lidar platform for highway scenarios. During Hydra’s unveiling at the 2020 Consumer Electronics Show, Luminar claimed it has a range of up to 500 meters and uses only 30 watts of power.
Luminar previously worked with Autonomous Intelligent Driving (AID), Audi’s driverless technology spinoff and a supplier for Volkswagen Group brands like VW and Porsche, to outfit prototypical vehicles with object-detecting lidar sensors. The two firms have also tested fleets with forward vision systems powered by Luminar’s sensors.
Beyond Audi and Volvo, Luminar says it’s actively working with 40 automotive partners and 12 of the world’s 15 largest auto OEMs, and that it now has 80 patents and a team of over 350 across Palo Alto, Orlando, and Colorado Springs. Contracts for its Iris system alone are worth more than $1.5 billion combined, claims Luminar.
The lidar market is projected to be worth $1.8 billion in just five years, and it’s a crowded field, to say the least. Innoviz raised $38 million in June, following financing tranches by Oryx and TetraVue.
 Lidar startup Baraja last January raised $32 million for its innovative prism-like optics design, and Alphabet subsidiary Waymo said last year that it would begin selling its proprietary near-range, 360-degree lidar design — Laser Bear Honeycomb — to “dozens” of customers. That’s not to mention far-infrared pioneer AdaSky , ground-penetrating radar startup WaveSense , and velocity-measuring sensor company Aeva , all three of which seek to develop technologies that complement traditional vision-based autonomous car perception systems.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
