Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Watch as Valve shows how the unorthodox Steam Controller works with Portal and Civ Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Valve showing how to use the Steam Controller with Civ V.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Two weeks ago, Valve revealed its Steam Controller to close out a trio of announcements that also saw the company lift the veil on its SteamOS operating system and Steam Machine PC consoles.
 Now, Valve is finally showing us all exactly how the weird, touchpad-based controller works.
Valve just released a video that shows how the Steam Controller deals with a variety of different games. In the clip, one of the controller’s creators used the device to play first-person puzzler Portal 2, turn-based strategy game Civilization V, first-person shooter Counter-Strike: Global Offensive, and the point-and-click adventure Papers, Please. From the video, it doesn’t seems like Valve’s engineer has any issues playing these very different games using the new hardware.
Check it out for yourself below: Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The Steam Controller is fully configurable. Players can even adjust the trackpads independently. That means one of the inputs can act like a mouse and the other can act like a keyboard’s WASD keys. The Counter-Strike clip even proves that the trackpads can handle precise movements.
This video should help gamers to get a better understanding of the Steam Controller, but it is still likely one of those scenarios where the majority of people are going to need to use it for themselves before knowing how to feel about it.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
