Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages This Steam Controller analysis may make you rethink Valve’s PC gamepad Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Valve's Steam Controller up close.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
When I reviewed the Steam Controller , I called it a “weird mutant with potential.” I still think it’s weird, but I had lost faith in the potential part … until I saw a lengthy documentary about the device on YouTube. In a two-part hour-long video, Steam Controller defender and YouTube creator James Minicki talks about the history of the gamepad and how a community of PC gamers have learned to love it since it debuted in November 2015.
Minicki’s video spends a lot of time on a history lesson before ever touching on why skeptics and nonbelievers should reconsider the Steam Controller. But his primary argument in defense of the product is that it has a lot more features than most people even realize and Valve keeps improving the software that powers the pad.
One of the hidden features that Minicki swears by is the Steam Controller’s gyroscopic aiming for first-person shooters. I’ll admit that I didn’t know it had tilt controls when I reviewed it, and we know that kind of aiming can work well with shooters after games like Splatoon.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! As for the software, Valve introduced an alternative to the XInput software that enables the Xbox controllers to work with PC games. XInput has some issues, including locking out non-Xbox controllers. That led to the Steam Controller API (SCAPI).
Valve plans to use SCAPI to add support for almost any controller you can connect to a computer. But, more importantly, SCAPI enables developers to map in-game actions directly to buttons on a gamepad. For example, instead of saying jump is space bar and then setting “A” on the gamepad as space, SCAPI can apply the jumping action directly to “A.” It can also apply camera movement directly to the gyro aiming.
I don’t know if any of this makes the Steam Controller amazing. I dug it out after seeing this video, and I still think its plastics are cheap and its buttons are flimsy. But I’m willing to give it another shot to win me over after learning more about how fully some people have adopted it.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
