Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Guest PlayStation leads October’s game industry ad spend, but NFL TV networks are the big winners Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The game industry’s TV ad spend increased in October for the second month in a row, up to an estimated $60.3 million from September’s $39.3 million, with over a third of the total outlay focused entirely on the NFL. Leading the way: PlayStation , accounting for over 62% of the industry spend, with Xbox , and Activision in second and third place, respectively.
GamesBeat has partnered with iSpot.tv, the always-on TV ad measurement and attribution platform, to bring you a monthly report on how gaming brands are spending. The results below are for the top five gaming-industry brands in October, ranked by estimated national TV ad spend.
PlayStation spent an estimated $37.6 million on seven spots that aired over 2,900 times, generating nearly 1.5 billion TV ad impressions. The commercial with the biggest budget (est. $14.9 million) was “Hundreds of Incredible Games on Demand,” promoting PlayStation Now.
 Four out of the top five programs for spend were sports-related, with the NFL, college football, and the NBA taking the lead; ESPN, Fox, and CBS were the three networks with the highest spend.
At No. 2: Xbox, which spent an estimated $11.3 million on seven commercials that ran over 1,400 times, resulting in 584.8 million TV ad impressions. The Gears 5 spot “Gears Forever” saw the highest outlay, an estimated $3.8 million. As usual, Xbox prioritized reaching a sports-loving audience: the NFL, college football, and the NBA were among the top programming for spend, and top networks included Fox, CBS, and ESPN.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Third place goes to Activision, which spent an estimated $5 million on placing two ads that aired 110 times, generating 168.6 million TV ad impressions. The bulk of the spend ($3.8 million) went toward the Call of Duty: Modern Warfare spot “Rules of Engagement,” featuring music by Metallica. As with the other brands, sports was a priority: the NFL was the dominant target of Activision’s spend, followed by the 2019 World Series and college football, while networks with the largest outlays included ESPN, Fox, and CBS.
EA Sports takes fourth place with an estimated spend of $2.7 million on six spots that ran 276 times, resulting in 194.2 million TV ad impressions. The Madden NFL 20 commercial “Victory Bath” featuring JuJu Smith-Schuster had the biggest budget (est. $1 million). Almost all of EA Sports’ budget went toward the NFL, with smaller outlays to college football and SportsCenter With Scott Van Pelt , among others. Top networks for spend included ESPN, NFL Network, and ESPN2.
Electronic Arts (EA), the parent company of EA Sports, rounds out the ranking with an estimated spend of $1.1 million on over 1,200 airings of a single ad, the “Official Launch Trailer” for Plants vs. Zombies: Battle for Neighborville. EA strove to reach a younger, more family-friend audience: The Thundermans, SpongeBob SquarePants, and iCarly were the three programs with the biggest budgets, and top networks included Teen Nick, Nick Toons, and Cartoon Network.
For more about iSpot’s attention and conversion analytics, visit iSpot.tv.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
