Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Oculus Quest: Beat Saber is a blast when it has no wires Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
A lot of people are unboxing their Oculus Quest wireless virtual reality headsets this week. And the first game they’re heading for is Beat Saber , the VR rhythm game where you slice red or blue cubes with light sabers as they come at you to the beat of music.
Beat Saber from Beat Games has sold more than a million units across the existing VR platforms, including the PlayStation VR, Steam VR (HTC Vive), and the Oculus Rift. But those systems are all wired. They’re a bit of a hassle to set up and connect in your living room. That adds a lot of friction to the notion of jumping into a quick game.
But with the Oculus Quest, a standalone, wireless VR headset which debuted yesterday for $400, you can now experience Beat Saber the way it should be played. I got the Quest up and running quite easily. It has passthrough cameras — meaning you can see through the goggles at the floor in front of you. So I was able to quickly set up a Guardian, or the borders for the space around me where it was safe to play. And then I loaded the Quest with games.
I started playing Vader Immortal and other titles at first. But then I gave Beat Saber a try. I started moving to the beat, swinging my red sword in my left hand at the red cubes as they came down the lane toward me. And I swung my blue saber at the blue cubes, always careful to swing at them from the direction indicated by a white arrow on the face of the cubes.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! I didn’t stop playing until about 10 songs later. I never noticed any connection problems or flubs because the sensor couldn’t detect my hands. The Oculus Quest has inside-out tracking, meaning the hand-controller sensors are on the headset itself, so that it can track the position of your hands as you move them about. That compares to the outside-in tracking of the older Oculus Rift, which requires fixed wired sensors to be set up somewhere in the room.
The controllers are built in a slightly different way because of the tracking. But I didn’t notice any difference. I don’t know if Beat Saber will be a killer app or not. It is available on a bunch of VR platforms. But I can say that, having played it on wired systems, the wireless Quest is the way this game should be played. Now I can get into the game in a matter of seconds, not counting the relatively quick load time. That might make it much easier to become a habit, and a reason to get a little exercise during the day.
Beat Saber costs $30 on the Oculus Quest.
Disclosure: Oculus supplied me with a Quest and a copy of the game for the purpose of VR reviews.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
