Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google launches Password Checkup Chrome extension to thwart data breaches Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google Password Checkup Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google has launched a new Chrome extension that warns you if your login credentials for any website have been involved in a data dump from other services.
Password Checkup , as the extension is called, sits in your browser waiting for you to log into any website. If it detects that your username and password combination are unsafe, due to their appearance on some internet data dumping ground, it will tell you that you should change the password.
It’s worth noting that to secure its own services Google has already worked to thwart credential dumps. As part of that effort, the company may reset Google Account passwords if someone has reused a username or password on another site that has been subsequently hacked. But now it’s doing the same thing for third-party sites.
Above: Google Password Checkup Warding off data-privacy questions this new tool could raise, Google is quick to point out that it developed Password Checkup in conjunction with “cryptography experts” from Stanford University. This step was taken to ensure that “Google never learns your username or password, and that any breach data stays safe from wider exposure,” according to a company blog post.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! A number of services already exist to warn you if your login credentials have been leaked.
Have I Been Pwned? (HIBP), for example, offers a database of breaches that allows you to check whether one of your online accounts has been compromised. Mozilla recently partnered with HIBP for Firefox Monitor, which serves as a rebranded version of the main HIBP database. And there are other similar extensions out there, such as PassProtect , which searches the HIBP database for previous breaches involving your credentials.
But Google is Google, and anything it develops is likely to gain far more exposure as a result.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
