Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Feature Black Friday 2019 gift guide: For Twitch and YouTube creators Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A Black Friday for streaming on Twitch and YouTube.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Thanksgiving is fast approaching for those of us in the United States, and that means it’s almost time for shopping. The holiday gift-giving season begins on Black Friday , but you can’t go out into the cold without some idea of what to get. That’s where GamesBeat comes in. We have a handful of shopping guides to help you pick up the perfect gifts for the special someone in your life. And it’s OK if that someone special is yourself.
For this gift guide, we’re looking at the crucial tools to get for anyone who loves livestreaming on Twitch or YouTube. We’ll update this throughout the end of the year with more deals.
Here’s what you should get.
A CPU and GPU for high-quality encoding Ryzen 7 3700X Price: $330 Where to buy: Newegg Our review: Here Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The Ryzen 7 3700X is an 8-core powerhouse CPU from AMD. It is fast enough for the most demanding games, but it also has 16 threads for processing video content in Premiere or for livestreaming.
Nvidia RTX 2070 Super Price: $500 Where to buy: Newegg Our review: Here Nvidia’s RTX 2070 Super is a great GPU for gaming, but it’s also great for livestreaming. Its built-in NVENC codec is lightweight and looks great even at lower bitrates. This means you can get clear gameplay video without destroying your gaming performance.
A top-notch capture card Razer Ripsaw HD Price: $160 Where to buy: Razer , Best Buy If you want to capture your consoles, I love the Razer Ripsaw HD because of its nearly nonexistent latency. It’s also compact and capable of doing 4K passthrough to your TV.
AVerMedia Live Gamer 4K Price: $270 (normally $300) Where to buy: Amazon Our review: Here If you are serious about creating content from consoles or a two-PC setup, I would go with the AVerMedia Live Gamer 4K. It can do 4K and HDR at 60 frames per second. This makes it great for recording gameplay from the highest-quality triple-A games.
Great microphone and audio equipment Blue Yeti X Price: $170 Where to buy: Google Our review: Here The Yeti X is Blue’s latest and best USB microphone. It sounds great, and it is also bursting with features. I like that it monitors your levels using a hardware light on the exterior of the device. It can also use Blue’s voice modulating software that is simple and powerful.
GoXLR Mini Price: $249 Where to buy: Reverb If you to upgrade from a USB microphone, the GoXLR Mini is a great way to do that. It provides a simple way to connect an XLR mic to your PC. It also has a bunch of features that are great for creators on YouTube and Twitch — like the ability to control the volume of your game, chat, and mic all with dedicated hardware sliders.
AudioTechnica AT2020 Price: $50 Where to buy: Rudapper If you get the GoXLR, you’ll need an XLR microphone. And the AT2020 from AudioTechnica is one of the best entry-level mics you can get.
Lights and a green screen Neewer LED light panel Price: $50 Where to buy: Amazon Some lights can really improve the look and feel of your stream. The Neewer LED light panel is an affordable way to bring that to your setup.
Homegear Collapsible Green Screen Price: $120 Where to buy: Amazon A green screen is a great way to ensure you can sit in front of your gameplay without getting in the way of too much of the action. The Homegear collapsible green screen is an easy way to add that to your studio. And then you can put it away when you’re not using it.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
