Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon’s Alexa brings email updates and skills to routines Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Amazon’s Alexa is getting the ability to automate more tasks today and in the coming weeks as its Routines feature grows new capabilities. Routines allow you to schedule actions, carry out multiple tasks with a single utterance, or create custom voice commands.
Starting today, you can create Routines in the Alexa app timed to start after an alarm goes off, so you could for example schedule an Echo speaker to play the latest news, get a weather forecast, and read events on your calendar 10 minutes after your morning alarm.
In the weeks ahead, Routines can be tied to sunrise or sunset, and can trigger email updates to share notifications from Gmail or Outlook.
That means you can soon say “Alexa, good evening,” and turn on the lights, start your favorite playlist, hear the latest news, and launch an Alexa voice app. Amazon now has about 90,000 Alexa skills.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Cloud Cam or Logitech smart home camera users will also be able to trigger routines based on when a person crosses its field of vision. This resembles the ability to connect a routine with contact and motion sensors introduced in August 2018.
Alexa Routines were first introduced in fall 2017.
Google Assistant , Samsung’s Bixby and Apple’s Siri have since introduced similar features, likely because voice apps and interaction with AI assistants are most often adopted when part of a person’s daily habits.
Other recent upgrades for the AI assistant include hands-free Alexa on Windows 10 PCs , HIPAA-eligible health care skills , and an improved ability to recognize how to translate vague human words into action.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
