Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon’s Alexa Gadgets Toolkit beta brings voice control to singing fish toys Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Amazon Echo Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Ever heard of Alexa Gadgets ? They’re Bluetooth devices that “enhance” voice interactions with compatible Amazon Echo devices (think connected lightbulbs synced to a killer soundtrack). Amazon made available a software development kit (SDK) in September 2017, alongside the launch of new smart speakers, the Echo Connect, Buttons, and more. But today, it formally launched the Alexa Gadgets Toolkit in beta.
The Gadgets Toolkit, which is available starting today in the U.S., U.K., and Germany, comprises self-service APIs and “gadget interfaces” that enable developers to tap into wake word detection, speech, notifications, timers, alarms, reminders, over-the-air updates, and other Echo services and software features. (Support for Amazon Music and kids skills are on the way, Amazon said.) Also in tow is helpful sample code and technical documentation.
“Alexa Gadgets extend Alexa’s capabilities to new modalities with motors, lights, sound chips, and more,” Amazon wrote in a blog post. “With the Alexa Gadgets Toolkit, you can build on what customers already love about Alexa, whether it’s responding with requested information from across the room, setting reminders, or playing music.” Gadgets Toolkit launch partners include Hasbro, WowWee Group Limited, Gemmy Industries, Baby Plus, Tomy International, Novalia, and eKids, who’ve used it to make toys like dancing plush animatronics, smart toothbrushes, a touch-sensitive table mat, and an updated Big Mouth Billy Bass.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The first devices built with the Gadgets Toolkit will go on sale later this year.
Also announced today: general availability of the Alexa Skills Kit for Python , an SDK that lets developers make Alexa API calls and quickly access support libraries in Python (as opposed to Java or Node.js). Key features include automatic request handling, attribute management, and Alexa API calls.
Both products follow hot on the heels of a CNBC report suggesting Amazon will debut up to eight new Alexa-powered devices this week, including a microwave and an “in-car gadget.” Update at 12:32 p.m. Pacific: Added reference to Amazon’s announcement that the Alexa Skills Kit for Python is now broadly available.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
