Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Samsung introduces Bixby Routines, AI that learns your habits and anticipate your needs Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Samsung unveiled a collection of new devices today in San Francisco, from S10 flagship phones to the Galaxy Fold , a smartphone that can fold out into a tablet. Underlying each of these powerful pieces of hardware is artificial intelligence and access to voice assistant Bixby.
To improve Bixby’s smarts, Samsung today also introduced Bixby Routines, a service that functions alongside Bixby Vision and Bixby Home.
As shown in a tweet from Samsung Mobile, in the evening Routines may mute your phone, turn on Night Mode, and shut off mobile data, and in the car Routines can switch on hands-free voice commands and your favorite music provider.
Support for Italian, Spanish, and British English was also made available with Bixby today.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The phone that learns your habits to blend seamlessly into your day.
#GalaxyS10 #SamsungEvent Learn more: https://t.co/1q8ihACGjB pic.twitter.com/zNIlrP46kd — Samsung Mobile (@SamsungMobile) February 20, 2019 The Routines announcement was rumored following a trademark filed by Samsung in South Korea last week.
Predictive elements powered by AI are increasingly part of the mobile experience. Quick app access points for Android and iOS mobile operating systems also surface recommendations based on past usage. Android Pie offers Adaptive Battery and Adaptive Brightness personalized for the individual, and Siri Suggestions in iOS 12 serve up recommendations on iPhone lock screens and the Apple Watch based on how you use the devices.
Due to the fact that Bixby needs time to learn the phone to get to know you, VentureBeat was unable to test the new feature in hands-on demonstrations today.
Routines for Bixby appear to be different than how Routines are defined for other assistants. In the case of Alexa and Google Assistant, Routines allow users to customize voice commands or carry out multiple tasks with a single phrase or utterance.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
