Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Demo: We Are Cloud brings Business Intelligence to the masses Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Smaller businesses often can’t afford a traditional enterprise Business Intelligence (BI) tool, nor do they have the in-house IT staff to administer and query it.
We are Cloud is launching Bime 3.0, a cloud-based business intelligence tool specifically for these small to medium sized businesses, at DEMO today.
Bime is designed to be accessible to anyone, from a web analyst to a product manager, rather than being restricted to IT staff.
BI tools can answer all kinds of questions for a small business from “Which sales are related to ad campaigns, social media activity and web traffic on my site?” to “When are my call centers most busy and how does that relate to my staffing schedule and budget plans?” Often the relevant data is stored in different formats and multiple locations. Daily sales numbers may be stored in a relational database, expenses in an accounting system or spreadsheet while traffic site data is retrieved from Google Analytics.
Bime 3.0 allows a user to create a query across all of these data sources in a web browser, regardless of the query language, file or metadata format. The user creates a business query by dragging and dropping the relevant data into a frame. Once the user is happy with the basic information he or she can turn the results into graphs and charts.
Bime competes with products from GoodData, Cloud9, Birst, Qliktech and Tableau software. Bime 3.0 is, however, completely cloud-based and the company claims that it can connect to an unmatched set of data sources either locally or on a web server anywhere in the world. The business model is software as a service (SaaS).
We are Cloud is based in Montpellier in France, was founded in 2009, has 12 employees and has raised $1 million dollars in angel investment.
We are Cloud is one of 70 companies chosen by VentureBeat to launch at the DEMO Fall 2011 event taking place this week in Silicon Valley. After our selection, the companies pay a fee to present. Our coverage of them remains objective.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
