Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Huawei’s new 5G base stations claim faster sub-6GHz uploads and downloads Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Huawei deputy chair Ken Hu discusses 5G at the Mobile Broadband Forum in Zurich.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
While U.S. cellular providers have largely focused on rolling out 5G using short-distance, high-performance millimeter wave radios, carriers in Europe and Asia have initially launched 5G using “sub-6GHz” frequencies — mid-band radio channels that send signals over longer distances while giving up raw speed. But Huawei has been working to reduce the performance gap between sub-6GHz and millimeter wave solutions and has just announced new 5G base stations with third-generation massive MIMO antenna technology, promising considerably faster 5G uploads and downloads over large areas.
Huawei’s new base station technology increases transmit power by 60% over the prior generation, as well as doubling spectrum bandwidth to 400MHz, while weighing only 55 pounds — a record lightness that enables single-person installation “in most scenarios.” Put another way, one Huawei base station will now be able to reach many more users and deliver higher speeds than before.
Despite ongoing controversy over the security of Huawei’s 5G network hardware within the United States, the Chinese company’s base stations have proved irresistible to even close U.S. allies, due to their combination of performance and pricing. After selling 40,000 first-generation massive MIMO base stations to Chinese and Japanese carriers, Huawei shipped over 400,000 second-generation units worldwide and expects to hit 600,000 by year’s end.
As more Huawei base stations ship, they increase the likelihood that the non-millimeter wave flavor of 5G will become the international default — and improve in performance. The company says the new hardware reduces latency for cloud VR services and significantly improves upload performance by more efficiently utilizing and aggregating sub-6GHz spectra. Additionally, new “hardcore massive MIMO algorithms” promise especially precise beamforming across thousands of radio channels, delivering fast, low-interference performance to large numbers of simultaneous users.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! It’s worth noting that existing Huawei base stations are already delivering impressive 5G speeds using sub-6GHz frequencies. The company said earlier this month that it hit a record of 3.67Gbps on Sunrise’s live 5G network, blazing past the 2Gbps peak speeds U.S. carriers have clocked on live millimeter wave networks. Rival Qualcomm has said its current 5G chips are capable of achieving 7.5Gbps speeds with optimally configured networks.
Since carrier installations of base stations aren’t generally obvious to consumers, it’s unclear when and where Huawei’s third-generation solutions will appear. But it’s safe to assume that they’ll begin to bolster sub-6GHz 5G networks outside of the United States starting at some point in 2020.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
