Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Entire world terrified about losing Apple AirPods that no one even owns yet Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The new wireless AirPods with an iPhone 7.
The world clearly has a pretty low regard for itself. Humanity’s self-esteem problems were on stark display yesterday when everyone’s first reaction to Apple’s new wireless headphones was exactly the same: “I’m totally gonna lose those things.” "Lost Fucking Immediately" LOL pic.twitter.com/ibjzoyf7Ug — Sam (@IsuruSam) September 8, 2016 Seriously, people, are we really such bumbling idiots that we can’t hold onto a couple of untethered… the best way to buy Airpods will be to just pick them up one at a time off the street — Owen Williams ⚡️ (@ow) September 7, 2016 I mean, we’ve been carrying around change in our pockets for decades, and that’s worked out okay. Well, I guess except for all that change in the couch cushions. And the washing machines. But otherwise… Me when I try to look for my #AirPods pic.twitter.com/FzYPh8YY67 — J (@julie_lwt) September 7, 2016 This being the internet, the hysteria quickly ran amok, with people demanding solutions to problems they don’t even have yet… They better introduce a new Find My AirPods app.
pic.twitter.com/CiOKI1844n — Andy Zhu (@TamedToronto) September 8, 2016 And as the fear spread, it mutated into alarm over the greater potential menace posed by AirPods. Like death and general mayhem… only looking at the picture and I've already choked, died and got one lodged in my ear canal #AppleEvent #AirPods pic.twitter.com/lsl9HpZtjO — Ross Buchanan (@rossy) September 7, 2016 And for God’s sake, what about the children? Is anyone thinking about the children? Kids are gonna choke on those airpods. Trial lawyers are gonna have big cases. CPSC may end up pulling them.
https://t.co/t1XSZmVsvb — Mike Cernovich (@Cernovich) September 8, 2016 In general, the internet was indignant. Whether it was The Guardian calling them in its review : “a tampon without a string.” Or Popular Mechanics venting its fury over the way AirPods would throw the entire universe out of balance: With completely wireless buds, you’ll not only have to deal with buds that are easy to lose, but you’ll have to deal with them every time you take them out of your ears.
 Want to take off your headphones and talk to someone for a few minutes? I hope you have fun holding a stray AirPod in your hand, or fishing a loose one out of your pocket a minute later, or have the carrying case on you literally at all times.
And really, why even go on living in that case? It probably will only inflame the situation to point out that while the cost is $169, no one anywhere is forcing anyone to buy these things or use them.
It is a strange bit of logic that seems to say, I have no choice but to buy a new smartphone without a headphone jack. Which means I have no choice but to buy wireless headphones from Apple. Which means I will lose them. Which will be entirely Apple’s fault.
Lost amid this wailing and gnashing of teeth are the other options. Don’t buy this version of the iPhone. If you do, use the Lightning EarPods that come with the phone. Or use the adapter to continue with other wired headphones. Or buy any of the numerous other options for wireless headphones that are out there.
Some of these options come with an unfortunate side effect: You will have to actually think for yourself and do some research. Like a couple of Google searches.
But I guess I am more optimistic about humanity. I believe we can overcome, collectively, this new threat to our very existence that Apple has thrown at us and triumph over this adversity in the end.
Our future, no doubt, depends on it.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
