Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Samsung debuts Galaxy Buds with Bixby Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Samsung today unveiled the Galaxy Buds, wireless earbuds that speak with intelligent assistant Bixby and can wirelessly charge on the back of the new flagship S10 smartphone. The earbuds made their debut today together with S10, S10+ and S10e phones , the Galaxy Fold smartphone that opens like a tablet , and other new devices at Unpacked, an event held at the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium in San Francisco.
Galaxy Buds will come in black, white, or yellow; cost $129; and be available for purchase March 8.
Bixby with Galaxy Buds means you can turn ambient sound settings on or off, or use voice commands for things like checking your schedule, playing music, and other tasks hands-free with your voice alone. Starting today, Bixby can speak German, Spanish, and Italian, an expansion for the intelligent assistant’s language capabilities first announced at the Samsung Developer Conference last fall.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Galaxy Buds offer 6 hours of battery life and have adaptive microphones to capture the sound of your voice with external mics when it’s quiet outside and internal mics for when it’s loud outside.
The Galaxy Buds are 30 percent smaller than Samsung’s IconX earbuds , released in 2016.
As smart speaker penetration and assistant access on smartphones continue to grow, major tech companies have taken steps to place their conversational AI platforms in more earbuds and headphones.
Beyond the poorly received Pixel Buds , Google Assistant has been integrated into high-end headphones from Bose, Sony, and other brands, while Amazon opened its mobile accessory kit to all device makers to make it easier to integrate Alexa into headphones last fall.
Apple is reportedly planning to release second-generation AirPods with hands-free Siri access and health data collection abilities in the first half of 2019.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
