Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple reportedly launching video service around March 2019 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Apple aims to launch its streaming video service as soon as March of next year, or roughly around the summer of 2019, the New York Times reports today. Run by a team formerly from Sony’s TV division, the Apple Worldwide Video studio now has around 40 employees overseeing shows and plans to offer a mix of adult dramas, kids’ TV, and content for Latin America and Europe from a 128,000-square foot headquarters in Culver City, California.
Over the last six months, Apple has used a reported $1 billion budget to sign producers and showrunners for 12 different series, aggressively bidding against Netflix and other studios. However, the Times reports that Apple is on track to spend far more than that, having recently outspent both YouTube and Facebook on original series, including projects from top names in the television and movie business.
While the prospect of partnering with Apple may be appealing to some producers, the company is reportedly looking for shows with a “bright, optimistic” spin, in part so they could be aired without edits in Apple’s retail stores. This angle was reportedly why respected producer Bryan Fuller’s will no longer be involved in a reboot of Steven Spielberg’s Amazing Stories anthology series. Fuller has not yet been replaced.
Other shows currently under development include an M. Night Shyamalan thriller, a space drama from Battlestar Galactica ‘s Ronald D. Moore, a comedy with Kristen Wiig, a drama from La La Land ‘s Damien Chazelle, a futuristic drama from The Hunger Games ‘ Francis Lawrence, and a drama from Octavia Spencer. Additionally, a morning network TV drama from Reese Witherspoon and Jennifer Aniston is expected to complete its initial script this week. The reported mid-2019 launch allows time for each show’s production to ramp up and episodes to be filmed.
Earlier this month, Apple vice president Eddy Cue told an audience at SXSW that the company was focused on telling great stories in long-form videos, rather than offering YouTube-style videos or acquiring a rival such as Netflix or Disney. Despite Cue’s comments, Apple was rumored last week to be considering an acquisition of Sony’s television studios.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
