Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple introduces Apple TV 4K to revive its streaming video hopes Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Apple TV 4K Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Two years after Apple’s attempt to reboot its TV ambitions , the company introduced a new version of its streaming device and a signficant update to the software that powers it.
Dubbed Apple TV 4K, the new version of the gadget will support the far richer 4K HDR video standard that is slowly gaining traction among TV manufacturers and content creators. Apple said its new Apple TV will support Dolby Vision.
The 32GB version goes for $179 and the 64GB one will cost you $199. Apple TV 4K preorders start on September 15, and the devices ship on September 22.
“Throughout the history of the TV, there’s been a few key inflection points that have transformed the way we experience television,” said Apple CEO Tim Cook in introducing the new Apple TV.
Apple has long had big ambitions for changing the way we watch TV. In 2015, the company unveiled a costly update with a new Siri-power remote. But instead of turbo-charging this segment for Apple, the company has fallen further behind rivals such as Roku, Amazon, and Google.
“Apple TV 4K is incredible,” said Apple executive Eddy Cue.
The device will include a new A10X processor as well as new version of tvOS, Cue said. That’s good for double the processing speed as the last version, plus there’s 3GB of RAM.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
