Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Business database Crunchbase raises $18 million and launches new enterprise product Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Crunchbase Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Crunchbase , the business database that details myriad data points from startups and the investor ecosystem, has announced an $18 million funding round led by VC firm Mayfield.
Created by Michael Arrington in 2007, Crunchbase initially existed under the TechCrunch umbrella. It was subsequently acquired in 2010 by AOL , which, in turn, was snapped up by Verizon five years later. Backed by $6.5 million in funding from Emergence Capital Partners, AOL spun out Crunchbase as a standalone entity in 2015. Crunchbase raised another $2 million shortly after, as it launched its paid service plans.
With $18 million more in the bag, the company says it plans to “accelerate development” of new software-as-a-service (SaaS) products and grow its team — with a “significant commitment to diversity,” according to a press release issued by the company.
The first of its new products is being unveiled today — Crunchbase Enterprise, which is targeted at teams and includes a number of additional benefits.
Crunchbase now offers four tiers.
 The free incarnation allows profile views and company / investor searches, while the $29 / month Pro version ( launched in September) removes ads and enables alerts and stats, as well as a bunch of add-on features. The $99 / month Enterprise plan, which is aimed at teams of at least five people, offers all that Pro does but with better API access and with Salesforce integration, among other smarts. Crunchbase Enterprise is essentially aimed at sales teams, as it gives them an insight into market trends and other “signals.” The company’s fourth tier, Applications, is basically a platform that lets third parties build apps using Crunchbase data.
“Crunchbase has become the go-to destination for accurate and up-to-date company information for businesses all over the world,” explained Crunchbase CEO Jager McConnell. “As we grow, hiring a diverse team will bring a variety of valuable perspectives into the business, which reflects the culture of Crunchbase. This will remain a focus of hiring as the company doubles in size in the next year. I’m inviting engineers from all backgrounds to text me at 415.881.8828 to find out more about joining our team.” We can perhaps expect McConnell to be muting his phone right… about… now.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
