Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Dropbox will let users store Google G Suite files Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn At the launch event for Dropbox Paper and Smart Sync.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Users of Google’s G Suite productivity service will be able to keep their Docs, Sheets, and Slides files inside Dropbox’s cloud storage environment, thanks to a partnership the two tech firms announced today.
It’s a massive win for the cloud storage company, which plans to make the feature available to all of its users, whether they pay for the service or not. In addition, Dropbox Business administrators will be able to manage those files like they would any other content that resides with the service, something that could be a boon to IT and compliance professionals.
This deal is supposed to make Dropbox a unified home for its users’ content and collaboration so they can access their G Suite files alongside all of the other data they store with the service. In addition to the file storage capabilities, Dropbox is also building new integrations with Gmail and Hangouts Chat so that it’s easier for people to share and preview files within those different communication services.
Collaboration between the two technology companies makes a great deal of sense, according to Billy Blau, Dropbox’s head of technology partnerships.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “It really comes from the fact that we have a big overlap of customer bases,” he said in an interview with VentureBeat. “Over 50 percent of Dropbox Business teams also use G Suite, so both sides see that connection. We have hundreds of millions of users who have Gmail addresses and are also G Suite users.” Blau said the forthcoming email add-on would allow customers to view rich previews of Dropbox files inside Gmail, something that goes beyond anything the company’s other email integrations offer at the moment. (Dropbox may expand that capability to other services in the future.) The company’s integration with Google echoes a similar partnership between the tech titan and Box. Those two announced a deal that would allow Box users to store G Suite files inside that company’s enterprise cloud storage and content management environment in October 2016.
That feature hasn’t materialized yet, and Dropbox’s own G Suite storage capability will be in the works for months still. Blau said his company plans to have some sort of file integration with G Suite available by the end of this year, though the feature may still be in beta and may not be rolled out to all the company’s users.
This deal also marks an interesting turn for Dropbox, which has partnered deeply with Microsoft on integrating its storage services into Office 365.
In fact, it has been a significant couple of weeks for Dropbox. Last Friday, the company released its filing for an initial public offering , revealing that it made $1.1 billion in revenue last year. Representatives for the company declined to comment on if or how this partnership could affect that offering.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
