Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon unveils Echo Studio with subwoofer and 3D Dolby sound Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Amazon today unveiled the Echo Studio, a smart speaker that works with AI assistant Alexa that includes 3D Dolby Atmos to optimize sound based on room metrics. The Echo Studio includes 3 mid-range speakers — left, right, and top — with directional tweeter and a 5-inch subwoofer for bass and bigger sound. Users can also stream sound from Amazon Fire video content to Echo Studio speakers.
The Echo Studio is available for preorder today and costs $199. Also introduced today: an Echo Dot with a clock, a new line of Echo speakers, and Echo Show 8. The news was announced today at an event at Amazon headquarters in Seattle.
The Echo Studio, announced in an invite-only event in Seattle at Amazon headquarters today, follows the introduction of Echo Amp and Echo Sub to enhance existing Echo speakers one year ago.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Echo Studio will give Amazon a device to compete with Google Home Max and a range of flexible smart speakers introduced this year from high-end audio companies like Bose and Sonos that can speak with either Alexa or Google Assistant. Unlike those more flexible devices, Echo Studio will speak exclusively with Alexa and Microsoft’s Cortana.
On Tuesday, Amazon and a group of dozens of other companies, including Salesforce, Bose, Sonos, and Microsoft, created the Voice Interoperability Initiative for a multi-assistant world.
At the same event last year, Amazon introduced new Echo Dot and Echo Plus smart speakers and a second-generation Echo Show smart display.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
