Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Big data platform Dataiku raises $28 million for international expansion Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Dataiku has scored its second round of funding, a $28 million investment led by Battery Ventures that the French company says will be used to increase hiring and marketing around the world.
The funding follows a first round of $14 million raised in 2016 that was led by returning investor FirstMark. Serena Capital and Alven also returned for this round, after having originally backed Dataiku with a $3.6 million round of seed funding in 2015.
Founded in 2013 by a group of French entrepreneurs, the company has since moved its headquarters to New York City, though the bulk of its development team remains in Paris.
Dataiku has created a cloud-based platform designed to make the huge amounts of data being gathered by companies more accessible to both data scientists and non-engineers. The idea is to simplify the interface around the data gathered by companies to allow more team members to analyze and dissect it.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! In addition, the platform uses machine learning to help users tap into the insights that are often promised by big data but that can prove elusive, according to Dataiku cofounder and CEO Florian Douetteau.
“We have significant customers on both sides of the Atlantic,” Douetteau said. “And we have a product that has the potential to be one of the leaders in this software category. ” The company now has about 100 employees and plans to use the new funding to double that headcount. In addition to New York and Paris, Dataiku also now has an office in London.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
