Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages DoD awards TwoSense $2.42 million contract for behavioral biometric authentication Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Artificial intelligence (AI) seems almost tailor-made for automating mundane office tasks and identifying seizure types , but it might be equally well-suited to security — including biometric security. That’s what startup TwoSense is banking on, and it’s got a government contract to show for it.
The Brooklyn, New York-based company, which was cofounded by Dawud Gordon, John Tanios, and Ulf Blanke in 2014 and has raised $850,000 to date, today announced that it was awarded a $2.42 million contract in October 2018 by the U.S. Department of Defense’s (DoD) Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA). While the particulars remain under wraps, TwoSense revealed that the project is aimed at replacing the DoD’s physical ID cards — the Common Access Card (CAC) — with both traditional and AI-driven biometric authentication, as part of DISA’s wide-ranging Assured Identity Initiative.
“Both DISA and TwoSense believe that continuous authentication is the cornerstone of securing identity,” said Gordon, who serves as CEO. “Behavior-based authentication is invisible to the user; therefore, it can be used continuously without creating any extra work.” TwoSense’s productized AI can authenticate a person from their movements, interactions, and mannerisms, as measured through both smartphones and workstation PCs. (One of the techniques in its system-as-a-service arsenal is ballistocardiography, which graphically represents the muscle movements caused by blood as it’s ejected into vessels by the heart.) TwoSenses’ systems also take into account gait, in addition to things like on-body phone location, hand pressure, proximity, and typing cadence.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Machine learning algorithms running in TwoSenses’ cloud learn the behavior of each user — how they walk, interact with their phones, commute to work, and (a bit creepily) where they spend their time. It’s sort of like Google’s On-Body Detection , an Android feature that prevents a phone’s lock function from activating when it’s on-person or in-hand — albeit more sophisticated.
A few employees might object to that granularity of observation. But from employers’ perspective, says TwoSense, it’s an attractive alternative to PINs, passwords, and SMS-based forms of two-factor authentications. The company’s biometric approach is continuous, shrinking hackers’ windows of opportunity and eliminating attack vectors. And employees, for their part, are spared the inconvenience of having to fish for an ID card or check their phone for texted two-factor codes — in exchange for a bit of privacy, of course.
TwoSense has a point. Security experts have pointed to weaknesses in SMS-based 2FA, citing the risk of interception by attackers who manage to spoof phone numbers. It’s one of the reasons 28 percent of people have never used two-factor authentication on any device or service, according to a Sophos survey — which is really worrisome, considering that three out of four people use duplicate passwords and 21 percent of people use codes that are over 10 years old.
To be clear, behavioral biometric authentication isn’t a new idea. Startups like Israel-based BioCatch, which recently raised $30 million, and Simility , which was acquired by PayPal in June, leverage AI and hundreds of parameters — such as the way a user moves their cursor and holds their phone — to build a profile for what constitutes “normal” behavior, and subsequently to perform authentication and catch fraudsters in the act.
But TwoSense is betting its particular solution will hasten DISA’s move away from other authentication solutions, like Purebred, a prototypical platform that relies on DoD mobile devices to provide one-time passwords. Last year, the agency said it was piloting AI-driven mobile and desktop systems that, like TwoSense, can identify users by behavioral features such as gait, and prevent and respond to the misuse of credentials.
“Keeping our overall objective in mind, we know that CAC as a form factor doesn’t perform well in the mobile environment,” Jeremy Corey, chief of the agency’s of Cyber Innovation Division, said during a presentation at the 2018 Armed Forces Communications and Electronics Association’s Defensive Cyber Operations Symposium in Baltimore last May. “We want to ensure that we retain the equivalent assurances of the secure elements that are on the card as we begin to potentially use mobile devices for authentication and access. We aim to achieve sufficient authentication assurance to facilitate a single platform for use in day-to-day operations, and potentially provide a capability to utilize one device for multiple networks.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
