Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Data analytics startup Incorta raises $15 million from Microsoft’s M12 and Telstra Ventures Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Incorta Homepage Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Data analytics software startup Incorta has raised $15 million in a series B extension round of funding from Microsoft’s venture capital (VC) arm M12 and Telstra Ventures, which closes the round at a total of $30 million.
This latest investment tranche comes a year after Incorta first announced a $15 million series B funding round , with investors including Kleiner Perkins and Alphabet’s VC division GV. And a year previous to that, GV led a $10 million series A round into the San Mateo-based startup. So with this news, it’s interesting to see both Microsoft and Google’s parent company now invested in the same startup.
The funding announcement was also timed to coincide with the company’s Fall ’18 Incorta platform release.
Hyperconverged Founded in 2013, Incorta’s hyperconverged analytics platform helps companies garner insights from crunching vast swathes of data from across their myriad cloud-based applications. Incorta meshes ETL (extract, transform, load), a common process for transferring data from its source to a data warehouse, with business intelligence (BI), data warehousing, and visualization tools.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Incorta’s core underlying promise is that it can help IT departments deliver new reports “within minutes as opposed to weeks,” according to the company.
“Business agility is severely hamstrung when queries take hours to respond despite running the analytical and reporting applications on very expensive and highly engineered appliances,” noted Incorta CEO Osama Elkady. “Within weeks, our customers are able to replace these appliances with the Incorta platform that scales horizontally on commodity hardware, on-premises or in the cloud, while delivering orders of magnitude faster query response times.” Big business The global cloud data warehouse market is expected to emerge as a $20 billion industry by 2020, up 40 percent from the $14 billion it was reportedly worth last year, according to IDC. And this, coupled with a growing demand for broader business intelligence services, is why we’re seeing a spike in investments in the space.
A few weeks back, San Mateo-based data warehousing company Snowflake Computing raised a chunky $450 million in funding at a $3.5 billion valuation. And a few months back, Palo Alto-based Yellowbrick Data emerged from stealth with $44 million in funding from big-name investors including GV.
Incorta’s clients include Broadcom, Henkel, Wadi Group, and a host of other Fortune 100 companies.
“Incorta’s approach to analytics fundamentally changes how quickly data is turned into insights at massive scale,” added M12 partner Rashmi Gopinath. “We’ve invested in Incorta because of the amazing list of Fortune 100 companies that have bet big by deploying Incorta technology in their most strategic data initiatives.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
