Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages 3 years after Indiegogo launch, social robot Jibo is available for preorder Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Jibo, dubbed "the world's first social robot." Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
More than three years after the start of Jibo’s crowdfunding campaign, the social robot that raised more than $3.5 million on Indiegogo is coming to market within the next several weeks. Today, the company published a press release stating that Jibo is now available for public preorder at $899, with a ship date of November 7.
“Today’s announcement marks a major milestone for our company and the history of robotics, and we’re so excited for consumers to welcome this charming, helpful, and humble little guy into their homes,” CEO Steve Chambers stated in a press release. The announcement also states that Jibo’s software developer kit will be available in 2018 and will allow developers to “create applications that go beyond the traditional flat screen into a unique 3D environment, leveraging Jibo’s body movement, screen animations, and voice.” Jibo, dubbed “the world’s first social robot for the home,” uses speech and facial recognition to remember both your face and your voice. And many of the skills advertised on Jibo’s website — the ability to tell jokes, stories, remember your likes and dislike, and ask you questions — reinforce the idea that Jibo is meant to be a companion, not just a robot assistant.
Founded by Cynthia Breazeal, director of the Personal Robots Group at the MIT Media Laboratory, Jibo had a projected ship date for backers of fall 2015. In a 2016 Indiegogo update to backers , Chambers listed a number of issues the team was still working to address, such as latency (the fact that Jibo would crash after being configured with some routers) and difficulty some users had expressed in communicating with Jibo, particularly when it came to understanding what skills Jibo was enabled with. A Jibo spokesperson told VentureBeat that ” this program is complex, and building and hardening the platform of Jibo…simply took more time to meet a standard we’d set for consumers.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! According to Indiegogo comments , Jibo started shipping units to early campaign backers in September, and the company tells VentureBeat that more than 2,500 backers have already received their units.
Correction, 6:16 a.m.: Updated with the correct year Jibo’s SDK will be available in — 2018.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
