Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Alexa Guard now detects human activity inside your home Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Alexa’s getting better at detecting potential home or apartment break-ins when you’re not around. During an event today in Seattle, Amazon introduced a new and improved Alexa Guard , the Alexa feature that sends users notifications when Echo smart speakers hear the sound of breaking glass or a smoke or carbon monoxide alarm. Now, Alexa Guard can detect human activity when it’s in Away Mode, and it can be added to Routines.
“We’ve been working on the science training the local model to understand what sounds are correlated with different activities, so … Alexa can notify you when she detected the likelihood of activity in your home,” wrote Amazon in a press release, adding that Guard integrates with Ring and ADT so that alerts can be simultaneously sent to a security provider.
Amazon previously said it trained machine learning models on hundreds of sound samples of glass breaking, which it compiled from contractors. It’s unclear what sort of data set was used for the human activity detection, but we’ll update this post once we learn more.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! As before, saying a command like “Alexa, I’m leaving” immediately transitions your Echo devices into Guard Mode with a few smart alerts that, if detected, send a notification to your phone. With the new Routines integration, Guard will also lock any doors with compatible smart locks, and it can randomize compatible lights when you’re away to make it appear as if you’re there.
It’s easy as ever to set up Alexa Guard, which began rolling out to Echo devices late last year. Here’s how: Open the Alexa app on your phone.
Tap the menu button on the top left.
Select Settings.
Select Guard.
Tap Set up Guard.
Tap Add to detect smart smoke alarms and carbon monoxide detectors, activate smart lighting, and enable smart alerts fo broken glass and human activity.
Enter your zip code, so smart lighting knows when to turn on.
Tap Confirm.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
