Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google Cloud Text-to-Speech now has 187 voices and 95 WaveNet voices Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Back in February, Google announced a series of updates to its Google Cloud Platform (GCP) AI text-to-speech and speech-to-text services that introduced multichannel recognition, device profiles , and additional languages synthesized by an AI system — WaveNet — pioneered by Google parent company Alphabet’s DeepMind. Building on those enhancements, the Mountain View company today expanded the number of new variants and voices in Cloud Text-to-Speech by nearly 70%, boosting the total number of languages and variants covered to 33.
Now, thanks to the addition of 76 new voices and 38 new WaveNet-powered voices, Cloud Text-to-Speech boasts 187 total voices (up from 106 at the beginning of this year) and 95 total WaveNet voices (up from 57 in February and 6 a year and a half ago). Among the newly supported languages and variants are Czech, English (India), Filipino, Finnish, Greek, Hindi, Hungarian, Indonesian, Mandarin Chinese (China), Modern Standard Arabic, Norwegian (Nynorsk), and Vietnamese, all of which have at least one AI-generated voice.
“With these updates, Cloud Text-to-Speech developers can now reach millions more people across numerous countries with their applications — with many more languages to come,” wrote product manager Dan Aharon. “This enables a broad range of use cases, including call center IVR, interacting with IoT devices in cars and the home, and audio-enablement of books and other text-based content.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! For the uninitiated, WaveNet mimics things like stress and intonation, referred to in linguistics as prosody, by identifying tonal patterns in speech. It produces much more convincing voice snippets than previous speech generation models — Google says it has already closed the quality gap with human speech by 70% based on mean opinion score — and it’s also more efficient. Running on Google’s tensor processing units (TPUs), custom chips packed with circuits optimized for AI model training, a one-second voice sample takes just 50 milliseconds to create.
Aharon notes that Cloud Text-to-Speech handily leapfrogs rivals like Microsoft’s Azure Speech Services and Amazon Poly by the number of AI voices on offer: 11 of Polly’s 58 voices are generated by an AI model, while only 5 of Azure Speech Services’ voices are AI-synthesized. Moreover, Polly and Azure Speech Services feature only 2 and 4 total languages/variants with AI-powered voices, respectively.
“When customers call into contact centers, use verbal commands with connected devices in cars or in their homes, or listen to audio conversions of text-based media, they increasingly expect a voice that sounds natural and human,” wrote Aharon. “Businesses that offer human-sounding voices offer the best experiences for their customers, and if that experience can also be provided in numerous languages and countries, that advantage becomes global.” Cloud Text-to-Speech is free to use up to the first million characters processed by the API.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
