Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Watch Elon Musk’s SpaceX launch the Falcon Heavy rocket to throw a Tesla into orbit around Mars Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Never one to let us be bored for too long, Elon Musk is back today with his latest audacious bet on the future of transportation.
At 1:30 p.m. Eastern ( Update : 3:45 p.m. Eastern), Musk’s SpaceX is scheduled to test launch its Falcon Heavy rocket. It’s the first time for this new generation, which boasts 27 Merlin engines compared to the mere 9 packed into SpaceX’s Falcon 9.
The goal with Falcon Heavy is to develop a rocket that can lift massive amounts of cargo into space. Its capacity of 119,000 pounds is twice as large as the capacity of most rockets that carry payloads.
So what’s it carrying? Naturally, Musk has placed a Tesla inside. Because, why not? The vehicle itself will contain a human dummy dressed in a SpaceX suit. The rocket will hurl the Tesla into space, where it is supposed to eventually drift into orbit around Mars.
You can watch the livestream of the liftoff above and follow SpaceX’s Twitter feed for launch updates. It’s not unusual for there to be minor delays as adjustments are made: The first test flight of Falcon Heavy is targeted for Tuesday, Feb. 6th at 1:30 PM ET from Launch Complex 39A at Kennedy Space Center in Florida. When Falcon Heavy lifts off, it will be the most powerful operational rocket in the world by a factor of two.
https://t.co/jzv975xKB0 pic.twitter.com/yAVGdXJjEs — SpaceX (@SpaceX) February 6, 2018 To get an overall scope of the what Musk has in mind, check out the conceptual video above.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
