Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages My.Games will launch global game store in Q4 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn My.Games Store Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
My.Games is a Russian game publisher that is going global. And so the company announced today that its My.Games Store will debut in the fourth quarter.
Developers and publishers will be able to distribute free-to-play and premium games through the My.Games Store while gamers will benefit from a wide range of PC titles and unique gaming services.
“I’m pleased to announce the launch of My.Games Store, our global gaming platform,” said My.Games CEO Vasiliy Maguryan, in a statement. “Although our background is delivering free-to-play and premium titles to an Eastern European audience, the My.Games Store is the next step in bringing our expertise to a global market. We believe we can offer a wealth of support and knowledge to studios and publishers looking to reach both a Russian and a global audience.” My.Games Store will build on the success of My.Games’ Russian-speaking platform, Games.Mail.Ru, which currently has 13 million monthly active users. At launch, players will gain access to popular My.Games titles like Warface and Conqueror’s Blade, as well as a whole library of games including third-party titles. Future developers and publishers will be offered a 70/30 revenue split to distribute titles through the My.Games Store.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Above: My.Games’ Conqueror’s Blade.
The platform will also feature integration with two unique gaming services. Lootdog allows gamers to trade in-game items for real money securely, while Donation Alerts is a tool that empowers streamers to monetize their content.
“Our Games.Mail.ru platform has been tailor-made for the Russian-speaking audience. Over the years, we’ve created unique technology, monetization systems, and the expertise needed to succeed in this market. We are now ready for the next step — taking the platform international,” said Rodion Kotelnikov, head of My.Games Store, in a statement. “For our international partners, this will open the door to our platform’s multi-million audience, while the players will gain access to a broader range of games.” My.Games Store is currently in beta testing, with plans for a full-scale launch by the end of this year.
My.Games launched in May 2019 combining the gaming assets of Mail.ru Group and My.com. Revenues rose in Q2 by 33.7% owing to the strong performance of existing titles including the Warface franchise, Conqueror’s Blade and mobile title Hustle Castle. In July, My.Games announced a new strategy mobile game, American Dad! Apocalypse Soon. Developed in partnership with FOX Next, the game is set to release on iOS and Android devices this fall.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
