Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages PayPal partners with China’s Baidu to target Chinese tourists Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Baidu Silicon Valley AI Lab in Sunnyvale, California.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
( Reuters ) — Baidu said on Thursday that it has entered a strategic agreement with PayPal to tap overseas merchants as Chinese tech companies ramp up the fight for overseas payment partnerships.
Under the agreement, Baidu’s payment platform, Baidu Wallet, will be accepted by roughly 17 million PayPal merchants globally, the Chinese firm said in a statement on Thursday.
“Partnering with PayPal on technology and product innovation will provide Baidu users with the ultimate cross-border consumer experience,” said Baidu senior vice president Guang Zhu.
The deal comes as China’s top payment firms, Alibaba Group Holding Ltd affiliate Ant Financial and Tencent Holdings Ltd, are making aggressive moves to expand their payment networks overseas.
This year Ant Financial entered a $1.2 billion bid for U.S. remittance firm MoneyGram International Inc, a deal that has attracted scrutiny from U.S. lawmakers who say it could threaten national security.
Ant has also purchased stakes in half a dozen payment firms across Asia as part of a plan to expand its finance business outside of China.
Tencent’s WeChat Pay has also inked a series of partnerships with global payment firms and earlier this month said it has applied directly for a Malaysian payments license.
PayPal, which reported better-than-expected results on Thursday, entered into new partnerships with Apple Inc and Bank of America this month.
It has also targeted Southeast Asian markets recently through local partnerships, but earlier attempts to enter the Chinese market directly have been unsuccessful due to tight regulation and strong local players.
PayPal will work with Baidu’s financial services group under the new agreement to target cross-border payments between Chinese consumers and online businesses based outside of China.
Baidu Wallet has roughly 100 million users, and still trails behind Tencent’s WeChat and Ant Financial’s Alipay in terms of users and global reach.
( Reporting by Cate Cadell; Editing by Kim Coghill ) VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
