Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Jaunt drops VR projects, will focus solely on AR and XR Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Jaunt is working on new augmented reality applications.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Jaunt’s last two months have been pretty eventful: Originally known for virtual reality experiences , the company recently shifted into providing augmented and extended reality technologies to other companies , and even installed a new CEO.
 Today, it unexpectedly announced that it’s winding down its VR products and services to focus its efforts on AR and XR creation technologies.
The company says that it’s going to focus its resources on “further developing technologies that allow for the scaled creation of AR content.” Back in August, Jaunt showed off a volumetric body scanning technology capable of streaming a real-time AR video feed of a person as recorded by six depth-sensing cameras — effectively hologram-style content.
 Weeks later, Jaunt acquired Teleporter , a streaming solution capable of sending volumetric AR content over the internet.
These offerings appear to be core to Jaunt’s efforts going forward. Its San Mateo and Chicago teams will continue to work on these volumetric AR/XR technologies, but the company says it will shed staff as it “smoothly and professionally” discontinues VR-related content services and products in concert with its customers.
Augmented and mixed reality hardware have yet to take off outside of industrial and enterprise applications, as the headsets have thus far proved unappealing to the wider consumer marketplace. However, streaming of holographic and otherwise ultra high-resolution 3D content is expected to increase in both importance and popularity as companies work to integrate live 3D assets into live help assistants and personalized online tutorial applications. Unlike current cellular and Wi-Fi networks, next-generation 5G wireless networks are expected to have the necessary bandwidth and latency to support these services.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
