Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Louis Vuitton partners with Riot Games on League of Legends World Championship Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Louis Vuitton created the new League of Legends trophy case.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Louis Vuitton and Riot Games announced they will collaborate on the League of Legends World Championship that kicks off October 2 and culminates in Paris on November 10.
For Riot, the partnership is a new high mark for esports sponsorships, as Louis Vuitton is a high-end luxury brand that is nonendemic for esports, meaning it normally doesn’t have anything to do with gaming. But Louis Vuitton specializes in creating trophy gear for sporting events, and so it is collaborating with Riot on a one-of-a-kind Trophy Travel Case to hold the Summoner’s Cup, which goes to the world champions in League of Legends. Louis Vuitton will also be a global partner for the League of Legends World Championship.
League of Legends has 8 million concurrent daily players, and the world championship is the biggest esports tournament in terms of viewership, said Riot Games head of esports Naz Aletaha in an interview with GamesBeat. Last year, 99.6 million people tuned in to watch the world championship.
“First and foremost, it is a testament to the growth and scale and relevance of League of Legends as the global leader in the esports industry,” Aletaha said. “Louis Vuitton has a history of being associated with some of the most prized or coveted trophies in the sports world, like the FIFA World Cup, where they also produce a trophy case. And so, for us, as we look to really elevate the most prestigious moment of our season, we thought that there was no better partner than Louis Vuitton. We think the coming together of the companies will be really great for the sport.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Every year, Riot Games organizes the League of Legends World Championship for the planet’s best players and teams, which this year begins October 2 in Berlin for play-ins and group stages, continues in Madrid starting October 26 for the quarterfinals and semi-finals, and culminates with the final in Paris on November 10.
Louis Vuitton will create a bespoke trunk, the first of its kind for an esports championship, that features both traditional Louis Vuitton savoir-faire along with cutting-edge, high-tech elements inspired by the League of Legends universe.
Louis Vuitton and Riot Games also will soon announce unique champion skins and a capsule collection designed by Nicolas Ghesquière, Louis Vuitton’s artistic director of women’s collections, along with other League of Legend digital assets.
Above: League of Legends trophy case, created by Louis Vuitton That’s pretty heady stuff for the young field of esports. League of Legends has been around for 10 years, and the world championship competition now boasts more than 100 professional esports teams with 800 pro players and millions of fans. Louis Vuitton has been around creating fashion and accessories since 1854.
Louis Vuitton will also have a major presence at next year’s world championship, when Riot Games goes back to China. The trophy trunk for League of Legends will be on display at the Eiffel Tower for a couple of days before the November 10 finals.
“That’s the first time the two world finalist teams will see it onstage as part of the opening ceremony,” Aletaha said. “What we find really exciting about Louis Vuitton is how iconic of a brand they are, how aspirational they are as a brand, and the fact that they’ve been, you know, this classic fashion house for over 160 years. And they’re able to really take tradition, and blend it with innovation.” Aletaha said the audience is large, the fan base is engaged, and the size of esports compared to other entertainment is really appealing for brands like Louis Vuitton. MasterCard, State Farm, Dell/Alienware, and Nike are also big supporters of League of Legends.
The trophy for the World Championship itself, the Summoner’s Cup, is made by Thomas Lyte. As one of the foremost trophy makers in the world, he has produced trophies for prestigious sporting events such as the FA Cup, Six Nations Rugby, Australian Open, and more. Riot worked closely with Lyte to make sure that it captured the essence of League of Legends and that the sport’s highest prize had symbolism pulled from all aspects of League of Legends.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
