Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages HP launches new 15-inch Spectre x360 2-in-1 convertible laptop Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn HP Spectre 360.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
HP is wasting no time taking advantage of the détente between Intel and Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), which have gotten together to package a processor and a graphics chip in a much smarter way in laptops.
The Palo Alto, California-based computer giant is unveiling the HP Spectre x360 convertible laptop, which has a 15.6-inch 4K (3840 x 2160) display with better battery life than past machines at 12 hours. HP is showing off the machine at the 2018 Consumer Electronics Show (CES), the big tech trade show in Las Vegas this week.
Above: Intel and AMD are teaming up.
HP is using Intel’s 8th Gen Core processors in the laptop, together in a special package for the first time with an AMD Radeon RX Vega M graphics chip. The two chips are connected on the same piece of silicon via an eight-lane PCI Express 3.0 bridge, Embedded Multi-Die Interconnect Bridge (EMIB). It also uses High Bandwidth Memory 2 (HMB2), a more power-efficient stacked memory technology that AMD pioneered and has since been turned into an industry standard.
The innovative solution results in a savings of several square inches of board space in a computer, as well as better battery life and higher performance. HP was able to add more cooling options to the machine, allowing it to have better power efficiency.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Above: HP’s new 15.6-inch Spectre x360 convertible laptop.
The main processor is an 8th Generation Intel Core i7-8550U processor. It has 512 gigabytes of internal storage, 16GB of main memory, and it weighs 4.6 pounds. About three years ago, such a system would have weighed about 6 pounds.
It has a hinge that allows it to convert in different modes, such as a tablet mode or a presentation mode. It goes from zero to a 50 percent charge in just 45 minutes. The 4K IPS display has 8.2 million pixels with a 178-degree viewing angle. It also has Amazon Alexa voice service, a digital pen, and USB-C Thunderbolt connectivity.
HP also has another version of the Spectre x360 with an Nvidia graphics chip.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
