Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Vader Immortal: Episode II is available now Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Developer ILMxLab used Facebook’s Oculus Connect 6 developer conference to launch the Vader Immortal: Episode II today. The Star Wars VR experience is available for both Oculus Rift and Oculus Quest right now.
As you would expect from an episodic experience, Vader Immortal’s second installment picks up where the last one left off. It has players continuing their training with Darth Vader. It also introduces new characters, such as a droid featuring the voice of actor Maya Rudolph.
“In Episode II, you’ll get to explore underneath Vader’s castle,” ILMxLab senior producer Alyssa Finely said during an Oculus Connect presentation. “You’ll get to use the Force, and there will be some incredible plot twists along the way.” ILMxLab’s goal with Episode II was to build on the foundation of both the story and the gameplay. The company brought back writer David S. Goyer to do the story, and it worked with Lucasfilm to ensure the story is canonical. [ So I guess this means four-armed Rancors are cannon now — Ed.
] Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! One of the big gameplay advancements in Episode II is the simplified Force mechanics. Now you can use a singe button to begin the activation of Force powers like stunning enemies or flinging objects.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
