Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Tencent invests in Antstream Arcade retro-game streaming platform Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Left Behind III on Antstream Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Antstream Arcade , a London startup that makes a streaming platform for retro games, said it received a round of funding led by Chinese gaming and social giant Tencent.
London-based venture firm Hambro Perks also participated in the Series A funding. The funding amount wasn’t disclosed.
Antstream Arcade offers a monthly subscription service to more than 2,000 retro video games. With that big catalog, Antstream Arcade offers casual “snacks” for its subscribers, letting them pick up and play classic retro games on demand. They can also interact with social challenges on the platform and compete with friends.
AntStream Arcade is available on Mac, PC, Xbox One, tablet and mobile devices, Nvidia Shield, and Amazon Fire Stick, with other platforms coming soon. In this case, you don’t have to buy separate vintage hardware to access older games.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Following a successful Kickstarter campaign, Antstream Arcade soft-launched in July 2019 in Western Europe, and it plans to launch in the U.S. at the end of 2019.
“Streaming is the future of gaming and the feedback we have received from our fans and early adopters has proven the point, they love it,” said Antstream Arcade CEO Steve Cottam, in a statement. “We are truly privileged that Tencent recognized our potential by investing so early in our journey. The company is synonymous with gaming and we are proud to be part of its family. Tencent has given us an incredible endorsement of our plans at Antstream Arcade, and we are delighted to lean on the support of its team as well as Hambro Perks to bring the joy of retro gaming to modern devices and new audiences.” “Hambro Perks is thrilled to back Antstream alongside Tencent,” Dom Perks, CEO of Hambro Perks, in a statement. “We predict that its retro gaming platform will be hugely popular with veteran gamers as well as younger demographics. Mobile streaming classic games is a fantastic idea and the team behind the vision is truly world-class.” Antstream Arcade was founded in 2013 in London.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
