Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Opinion Elon Musk has solved Tesla’s problems using video games Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Elon Musk, a gamer.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Elon Musk , a noted Twitter user and someone who probably says “waifu” out loud, is all about video games this week. The Tesla founder has apparently taken a break from not admitting or denying SEC allegations to put a video game in the dashboard of the company’s electric cars. And you know how I love video games, so I’m very excited about all of this. But the one thing I love more than video games is leveraging them to better target the key male 18-to-34 demographic.
The reason this works is because Musk obviously loves video games. You can tell because he tweets fan art of 2B from Nier Automata and then has a meltdown when people ask him to credit the artist. Who among us hasn’t had that happen to them? “[Baldur’s Gate 2] was so good,” Musk also tweeted in response to a joke.
 I think this moment is especially insightful because it shows that he both likes something and doesn’t have a sense of humor. These are two of the most important characteristics of my gamer identity.
Of course, Musk doesn’t just tweet. He also appeared on a panel with The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim director Todd Howard and The Game Awards creator Geoff Keighley at the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) game industry show last week.
 During that event, Musk treated the audience of average gamers better than he treats his investors. And by that, I mean he did not call any of the questions “boring” or “boneheaded” like he did in a conference call with analysts last year.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Instead, Musk agreed to take a selfie with a fan by mumbling “sure” while only barely rolling his eyes. So gracious.
But what about the game? We’ve established that Elon Musk is potentially the greatest gamer alive. And now you can play a video game on one of his cars. Truly, we live in an age of technological miracles.
Tesla posted a video of Beach Buggy Racing 2: Tesla Edition on Twitter today, so you can see it in action for yourself: https://twitter.com/Tesla/status/1141041018835353600 And who doesn’t want to sit in their car and play a game on an off-center display? I’m gonna make an appointment with my chiropractor right now because I’m going to stare slightly down and to the right for hours! But the genius of turning the Tesla into a giant console on wheels is that it addresses a problem. The electric batteries on Tesla’s cars have a range of about 310 miles. That means you may have to stop to charge them during long or frequent trips. And it takes about an hour to top off a Tesla.
Thankfully, this solves that. Now, you are no longer waiting for your car to charge or for Tesla to improve its technology. It doesn’t need to improve its technology anymore! Sitting in a car and playing a port of mobile kart racer for 60 minutes at a time is perfect, and I refuse to believe life can get better than that.
Most importantly, though, this means that Tesla can reach out to the gaming audience. The company is inviting gamers to “Experience the Tesla Arcade” through the end of this month.
 At its showrooms, Tesla will enable people to play previously added games like Missile Command and Asteroids as well as Beach Buggy Racing 2.
It’s almost like Musk read some research about how Teslas appeal to gamers, and this is what they came up with. What a titan of industry! GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
