Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Exclusive Cursor Enterprise AI helps companies find and use their code across cloud services Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Data management is time-consuming — particularly when you’re dealing with information across multiple cloud services. The typical enterprise uses about 91 marketing cloud solutions , and they’re going underutilized; they pay an average of 36 percent more for cloud services than they actually need to.
That’s why Adam Weinstein, Jason McGhee, and Patrick Farrell — veterans of companies such as LinkedIn, Salesforce, and Pandora — cofounded Cursor , an analytics platform that enables companies to take full advantage of the disparate apps they’re already paying for. The San Francisco startup, which emerged from stealth last year with $2 million in seed funding from Toba Capital and other investors, counts employees at Apple, Atlassian, Slack, and more than 500 other organizations among its customers.
This week, it’s launching a new offering — Cursor Enterprise — tailored to fit the needs of large organizations.
“Cursor Enterprise is designed to meet the needs of the world’s largest data-driven organizations with a host of new features, spearheaded by the use of machine learning to bring relevant data to you, faster,” Weinstein said. “We’ve been listening to … feedback and have been hard at work on new features that will allow you (and large-scale organizations everywhere) to not only better manage your data, but extract more actionable insights from it.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! From a user perspective, Cursor behaves like a search engine. Queries pull up a list of results compiled from connected services to a segment of SQL, to which people can attach comments and tags. The idea is to cut down on the amount of time folks spend pilfering through cloud folders or pinging colleagues for files and code.
So what differentiates Cursor Enterprise, which operates on a paid software-as-a-service model, from Cursor’s free plan? For starters, there’s a new centralized management dashboard that lets admins impose user and content access policies, as well as an enhanced tracking tool built with compliance in mind. Also in tow is an AI-powered recommendation engine that surfaces files that might otherwise fly under the radar, and a data catalog that indexes files from business intelligence platforms (like Tableau, Power BI, and Looker), on-premises databases, and content management systems.
The new arrivals join Cursor’s existing suite of features. Subscribers get universal search across all connected services, real-time automated backups of files undergoing edits, and automatic code formatting and verification, in addition to built-in Q&A tools that connect users with domain experts within their organization.
“It’s designed to help folks in the data weeds,” Weinstein told VentureBeat in a phone interview. “[The platform can] identity [files and code] that can be can be reused [and] provide insights.” Cursor Enterprise is available broadly today, and will gain new features in the weeks ahead. Python Notebooks support is on the way, as is metric tracking and integrations with ElasticSearch, BigQuery, Microsoft Dynamics, and more.
Cursor’s in a profitable market segment. The cloud infrastructure services market is forecast to be worth $81.29 billion by 2023, according to MarketsandMarkets.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
