Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Twitter’s Jack Dorsey: I hacked a company’s email server to get my first job Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
DETROIT — Jack Dorsey confessed something on stage here at Techonomy Detroit today: He hacked into the world’s largest dispatch company’s email system in order to get a job.
“I was in college, and I really wanted to go into the dispatch industry,” Dorsey said.
Dorsey had grown up loving cities and loving maps. That translated into a fascination with dispatch software — in fact, some of his open source software for taxi companies is still in use today.
But when he wanted to get a job with a dispatch company in New York and checked its website, he found a problem: no contact information.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “So I found a hole in their web server and found their corporate emails. I emailed their chairman, told him there was a security hole, and said here’s how to fix it.” The next week Dorsey was on an airplane. He got the job.
Dorsey says he is still fascinated with New York — in fact, he even harbors a not-so-secret dream to be the mayor of New York.
However, I’m not sure a similar strategy will get him that particular job.
Image credit: John Koetsier VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
