Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Community Blockchain interoperability is essential to avoid the flaws of Web2 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Blockchains are not merely storage and communication protocols. Each of them has a history, community and culture worth protecting.
Some communities are more focused on creating “sound money” alternatives to current fiat systems. Others are working hard to maximize raw computing power or storage capacity. Some blockchains allow users to collect basketball shots and other sports moments. Others are emerging as metaverses for developing a particular cultural or gaming culture.
We need to nurture spaces for these communities to grow and innovate. Like borders, languages and currencies, blockchain designs allow cultural particularities to thrive instead of being absorbed by the more powerful neighbor.
We need to promote diversity. And, just like in the real world, we must also encourage dialogue between communities. We must invest in bridges that allow blockchain ecosystems to communicate, as long as these bridges emerge organically to serve the needs of their users, rather than top-down as a result of government-sponsored standards.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Interoperability holds the key to a multichain world Blockchain interoperability is not a set rule book. It refers to a broad range of techniques that allow different blockchains to listen to each other, transfer digital assets and data between one another and enable better collaboration. There are decentralized cross-chain bridges that facilitate the transfer of data and assets between Ethereum, Bitcoin, EOS, Binance Smart Chain, Litecoin and other blockchains.
Currently, the main use cases of interoperability are: first, the transmission of a given cryptocurrency’s liquidity from one blockchain to another. Second, allowing users to trade an asset on one chain for another asset on another chain. Third, enabling users to borrow assets on one chain by posting tokens or NFTs as collateral on another chain.
Each bridging technique makes its own design compromises in terms of convenience, speed, security and trust assumptions. Each blockchain operates on different sets of rules and bridges serve as a neutral zone where users can switch between one and the other. It greatly enhances the experience for users.
For end-users, these trade-offs may not be easy to understand. Furthermore, the risks associated with each bridge technique may compound each other whenever an asset crosses several bridges to reach the hands of the end-user.
Call to action As members of the Web3 ecosystem, we share a responsibility not just to promote a multichain world, but also to make it safer as more users begin to enter Web3.
Everyone has a role to play. Cross-chain bridges must be transparent about risks and resist the temptation of growth at all costs; they must also publish bug bounties. Security researchers and analytics platforms should publish public risk ratings and report incidents. Blockchain protocols and wallet operators should agree on lists of cryptocurrencies and smart contracts officially supported on each chain. Dapp developers should aim to deliver simple user experiences without throwing away the core tenets of decentralization and user ownership. And media outlets and key opinion leaders must help end-users to “do their own research.” We must move away from “winner takes all dynamics” and offer a better future to user and developer communities. The Web3 movement gained traction because we wanted — and still want — to move away from the shackles of centralization. The seamless flow of information and tokens between different blockchains will be a major push towards a truly decentralized, multichain economy.
Ken Timsit is the managing director of Cronos.
DataDecisionMakers Welcome to the VentureBeat community! DataDecisionMakers is where experts, including the technical people doing data work, can share data-related insights and innovation.
If you want to read about cutting-edge ideas and up-to-date information, best practices, and the future of data and data tech, join us at DataDecisionMakers.
You might even consider contributing an article of your own! Read More From DataDecisionMakers The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! DataDecisionMakers Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
