Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google increases rewards for hacking Chrome, Chrome OS, and Google Play Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google, which has already paid security researchers over $15 million since launching its bug bounty program in 2010, today increased bug bounties across the Chrome Vulnerability Reward Program and the Google Play Security Reward Program.
Bug bounty programs are a great complement to existing internal security programs. They help motivate individuals and hacker groups to not only find flaws but disclose them properly, instead of using them maliciously or selling them to parties that will. Rewarding security researchers with bounties costs peanuts compared to paying for a serious security snafu.
Since 2010, the Chrome Vulnerability Rewards Program has received over 8,500 reports and paid out over $5 million. Those changes have not only helped secure Chrome, but also other Chromium-based browsers.
Google is now tripling the maximum baseline reward amount from $5,000 to $15,000, doubling the maximum reward amount for high quality reports from $15,000 to $30,000, and doubling the additional bonus given to bugs found via the Chrome Fuzzer Program from $500 to $1,000. Google has also clarified what it considers a high quality report and updated the bug categories.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! For Chrome OS, Google is increasing the standing reward from $100,000 to $150,000 for exploit chains that can compromise a Chromebook or Chromebox with persistence in guest mode. The company has also added reward categories for security bugs in firmware and lock screen bypasses.
Finally, Google has quadrupled Google Play rewards for remote code execution bugs from $5,000 to $20,000. The company has also tripled theft of insecure private data and protected app components from $1,000 to $3,000. Keep in mind this program also has bonus rewards for responsibly disclosing vulnerabilities to participating app developers.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
