Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Mozilla launches Hubs, a social browser-based WebVR experiment Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Mozilla Hubs Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Mozilla is continuing its mission to make the browser a core facet of virtual reality (VR) today with the launch of Hubs , a WebVR experiment from the mixed reality team at Mozilla, which touts this latest app as an “immersive social experience.” You begin by visiting the Hubs portal through any browser, then you choose a name for your virtual room, a robotic avatar, and a name for yourself, and you can enter the virtual world. To interact with friends, you can then copy/paste the URL and share a dedicated link with them.
Above: Hubs: Invite friends The process of getting things set up is pretty simple, and Mozilla designed it to highlight the ease of access it believes VR needs. “No gatekeepers. No installation process. Just click and you are there,” the company said in a blog post.
Indeed, Hubs adheres to web standards, works with any device, supports all the usual headsets/goggles (including Oculus Rift, HTC Vive, Daydream, and Cardboard), and also open to those with no specialist VR hardware on desktops and mobile phones — an inclusive gesture to ensure everyone can participate, not just those with dedicated VR hardware.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! This means that in Firefox or Chrome, for example, you can view and interact with friends using your touchscreen, mouse, and keyboard.
Above: Hang with friends Mozilla is one of the leading developers of WebVR , a JavaScript API that it hopes will make VR more accessible through browsers on PCs and mobile devices while also supporting the majority of the big-name headsets. Google brought WebVR support to Chrome in some Daydream-ready Android phones last year, and Mozilla’s Firefox later became the first desktop browser to officially support the WebVR standard.
Mozilla also announced a new mixed reality development program in October, with an initial focus on getting “devices, headsets, frameworks, and toolsets to work together.” Hubs fits firmly into those plans.
“This is one of many experiments we’ll be sharing from that work,” Mozilla said in reference to Hubs. “Using the web as a platform provides people with better choices and greater access. People shouldn’t have to be locked into a specific platform or device. They should be able to connect and engage with the web wherever it expands.” This latest launch comes less than a month after Mozilla announced Firefox Reality , a cross-platform open source browser for AR and VR headsets that helped reinforce Mozilla’s push to ensure VR and AR experiences aren’t locked in silos.
“This technology is at tipping point,” Mozilla said. “If we want to continue to bring immersive experiences into the mainstream, we need to be laser-focused on removing friction for the user. The technology needs to step out of the way, and the experiences need to take center stage.” Hubs is just an experiment for now, but Mozilla said there are plans to expand its scope to allow users to create their own virtual worlds and avatars. The company said it may also introduce integrations with “existing communications tools” in the future.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
