Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Castle Crashers breaks through to Xbox One next week — here’s how to get it for free Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The incredible animation and art of Castle Crashers gets an upgrade for Xbox One.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The last generation of consoles was known for introducing smaller, downloadable games to console players, and one of the most successful Xbox Live Arcade releases on Xbox 360 is getting an upgrade to the newer Microsoft machine.
Castle Crashers Remastered is coming to Xbox One on September 9 for $15, according to developer The Behemoth.
 The studio sold millions of copies of Castle Crashers, which is a four-player action-adventure beat-’em-up, on the Xbox 360 and eventually PC as well. So it makes sense that the company would want to rerelease its most popular game so far — especially considering the original came out seven years ago.
Of course, the success of Castle Crashers means that you likely already own the game for Xbox 360 — well, if that’s the case, then you’ll actually get the Remastered version on Xbox One for free. The only requirements are that you need to have an active Xbox Live Gold account and you need to download the game before September 20.
If you own the original for Xbox 360, have Xbox Live Gold, but wait until September 21? At that point, you’ll have to pay human dollars to get the Remastered game on Xbox One. But it will only cost you $5 instead of $15 or you could play the original, non-remastered version on your Xbox One since The Behemoth has promised backward compatibility.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Developer The Behemoth revealed Castle Crashers Remastered earlier this year, but today’s announcement included some new details about what exactly about the game is “remastered.” Here are some of the most notably improvements: Improved frame rate to 60 FPS instead of 30 FPS.
New multiplayer mode.
Higher-resolution textures.
Better performance in the main game and online.
Better matchmaking.
I love me some Castle Crashers, so I’ll have my Xbox One booted up on September 9 to get in on this action. Here’s to rocket-poop-propelled deer! GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
