Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Qualcomm cuts 5G millimeter wave antenna size by 25% ahead of 2019 debut Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Cellular chipmakers have spent years working to miniaturize 5G components before the first 5G devices hit stores, and that process is continuing down to the wire. Mere months before the industry’s annual Consumer Electronics Show (CES), Qualcomm today announced that it has achieved a 25 percent reduction in the size of its 5G millimeter wave antennas, which are expected to be critical parts in early 5G mobile handsets.
Qualcomm publicly revealed its first QTM052 millimeter wave (mmWave) antennas back in July, showing roughly fingertip-sized modules designed to pair with the company’s Snapdragon X50 5G modems. Each antenna is capable of being used on 26.5-29.5 GHz, 27.5-28.35 GHz, or 37-40 GHz mmWave bands, though Qualcomm has said device makers could include up to four antennas to prevent signal loss in handheld devices.
Unfortunately, device makers have been struggling to fit even a single 5G antenna module within the ever-shrinking bezels of standard-sized modern smartphones. Last month, we noted that the latest images depicting prototype 5G smartphones were looking more like phablets than pocket devices and that reports have suggested multiple 5G chipmakers have been facing eleventh-hour miniaturization challenges. In response, Qualcomm said it was “laser-focused on ensuring smartphone size is not impacted” by inclusion of millimeter wave hardware.
Today’s announcement demonstrates that Qualcomm and its partners are indeed making progress, even as the clock ticks down to the launch of early 5G mobile devices. By reducing the antenna’s size by a quarter, Qualcomm makes a single 5G antenna easier to implement and cuts a full antenna’s worth of volume from a four-antenna array — more space for a battery, or a way to make the smartphone smaller. The company says its dozens of OEM partners “now have more options for antenna placement, providing them with more freedom and flexibility in their 5G mmWave designs.” Qualcomm’s smaller QTM052 mmWave antenna module family is currently sampling to customers and is planned for commercial 5G device launches in early 2019. Xiaomi has promised to show off its first 5G smartphone this week, including Qualcomm components, and Lenovo has similarly said it will be using Qualcomm parts in its early 5G phones.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
