Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Red Matter’s Oculus Quest sales eclipse its Rift sales in just 1 week Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Red Matter is a mystery exploration game set on Mars.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Sales of Red Matter on Oculus Quest have already surpassed the game’s lifetime sales on Rift, according to the developer Vertical Robot.
The Rift version of the game launched 15 months ago. It currently has 172 ratings on the Rift store , averaging 4.4 stars.
The Quest version is now at the No. 1 spot on the Top Selling list with 231 ratings or reviews, averaging 4.9 stars.
The game is also available on Steam for Rift, HTC Vive, Valve Index, and Windows MR headsets. It has 95 written reviews, only 1 of which is negative. Vertical Robot hasn’t said anything publicly about sales on this platform.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Red Matter is a sci-fi puzzle game set in an alternative reality Cold War. As an astronaut of the Atlantic Union, you’re sent to an abandoned base on one of Saturn’s moons in search of a secret research project.
We’ve always praised the game’s compelling immersion and narrative. When we reviewed the game on Oculus Quest , however, we were particullarly impressed with the game’s visuals, which are practically unparralleled on Quest. It looks like the extra work the studio put in really paid off.
A Quest success story, but why? Red Matter doesn’t support cross-buy. That means you need to purchase it separately on Rift and Quest. This decision was made because it allowed for pricing flexibility across platforms.
While the lack of cross-buy could be thought to be related to this sales milestone, we doubt enough people own multiple $400 VR headsets to truly make this a factor. Rather, the game’s high sales may be due to its quickly gained reputation as having the highest fidelity graphics of any Quest title. The top trusted review of the game on the Quest store , titled ‘Most visually stunning game on the Quest’, has currently been rated as ‘Helpful’ 110 times.
Vertical Robot wrote custom shaders instead of using the standard Unreal Engine shaders. This allowed for advanced lighting effects not seen in any other Quest title so far.
The milestone is also likely related to low barier to entry of the Oculus Quest as a product. While Quest is the same price as Rift S, the latter requires a gaming PC which typically cost on the order of $1000. As a standalone headset, Quest can be used by anyone with a smartphone to set it up.
Other developers have reported similar sales trends, with Superhot VR selling “300% higher” on Quest than when it first launched on Rift.
This story originally appeared on Uploadvr.com.
 Copyright 2019 GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
