Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Riot Games gets Nielsen to measure League of Legends esports competitions Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Esports can fill stadiums for big events -- but is that enough? Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Riot Games has tapped Nielsen to measure League of Legends esports competition so sponsors know the impact of their advertising dollars. The deal is important to helping esports generate the same kind of big advertising revenues as traditional sports. This is a path for esports to live up to the hype for generating revenue.
Nielsen will handle comprehensive sponsorship valuation measurement across the Riot’s multiple esports leagues and competitions around the world. The move will help Riot Games demonstrate the monetary value of exposure provided to brands currently activating or considering association with its League of Legends events. The research also will support brands in achieving the greatest return on investment through Riot Games.
As part of the agreement, Riot Games will provide access to its aggregated streaming viewership data to support Nielsen’s independent brand exposure measurement. This includes the new Pro View experience that helps fans follow individual players during League of Legends competitions. Metrics will be incorporated into the industry-leading Nielsen Esport24 syndicated sponsorship valuation product.
Brand involvement in esports is growing as marketers look to connect with this hard-to-reach, tech-savvy segment of young adults who utilize online ad blockers and are less likely to watch television. According to recent Nielsen research, one in five fans globally began following esports in the past year, and nearly 60% of U.S. esports viewers on Twitch say they don’t watch television on a weekly basis.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! “As esports continues to gain momentum with brand marketers and advertisers, the need for independent, third-party verification of audiences and brand exposure is critical,” said Nicole Pike, managing director at Nielsen Esports, in a statement. “With this agreement, we have the opportunity to help monetize Riot Games’ platform and validate this growing market.” League of Legends Esports is a premier global sport that attracts the attention of millions of fans around the world through 13 regional leagues which consist of over 800 professional players and 100 professional teams.
Each regional league comprises approximately 10 teams that compete year-round against one another over the course of two seasonal splits. The sport is globally integrated through three international events: the World Championship, the Mid-Season Invitational, and the All-Star Event.
Nielsen will measure brand exposure throughout 2019 and 2020 including the North America League of Legends Championship Series (LCS), League of Legends European Championship (LEC), the League of Legends three international events, and select regional leagues in Asia.
“Trust and transparency are vital components of building and maintaining relationships with brand partners,” said Doug Watson, head of esports insights at Riot Games, in a statement. “As major companies invest in our tournaments, we want to help them see the value of their exposure and identify how best to engage with our passionate fan base.” During the past 12 months, League of Legends Esports has signed on multiple prominent partners which include Mastercard, Dell/Alienware, State Farm, and Nike. Additionally, Riot Games has launched multiple premium products including Pro View, Team Pass, and Fan Pass, which supplement the viewing experience on watch.lolesports.com — the viewing portal developed by Riot Games specifically for League of Legends Esports.
Riot Games is a member of the Nielsen Esports Advisory Board and has been actively leading efforts to standardize metrics for esports viewership and sponsorship valuation.
The League of Legends World Championships in 2018 saw an average minute audience of 19.6 million during the finals.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
