Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft releases new Windows 10 preview with sign-in improvements Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Microsoft today released a new Windows 10 preview with sign-in improvements. The update bumps Windows 10 from build 18963 (made available to testers on August 16) to build 18965. These builds are from the 20H1 branch, which represents the Windows 10 update that will arrive in the first half of next year.
Windows 10 is being developed as a service , meaning it receives new features on a regular basis. Microsoft has released seven major updates so far: November Update , Anniversary Update , Creators Update , Fall Creators Update , April 2018 Update , October 2018 Update , and May 2019 Update.
When you restart Windows 10, some apps can restart as well. Until now, this option was tied to the “Use my sign-in info to automatically finish setting up my device” option under Sign-in options in accounts settings. Now, you have more explicit control over when Windows 10 automatically restarts apps that were open when you restart your PC. When turned on, Windows automatically saves your restartable apps when signing out, restarting, or shutting down Windows and restarts them the next time you sign in. The setting is off by default (Settings => Accounts => Sign-in options).
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Bug fixes This 20H1 build includes the following bug fixes and improvements: Fixed an issue resulting in the screens shown while updating Windows unexpectedly saying “managed by your organization” for some Insiders.
Fixed an issue resulting in the taskbar unexpectedly hiding sometimes when launching the touch keyboard.
Fixed an issue where some of the colors weren’t correct in Language Settings if using High Contrast White.
Fixed an issue that could result in background tasks not working in certain apps.
Fixed an issue where if you set focus to the notification area of the taskbar via WIN+B, then opened a flyout and pressed Esc to close it, then the focus rectangle would no longer show up correctly anymore.
Fixed an issue where on the Bluetooth & Other Settings page, the device type wasn’t read out loud when using a screen reader.
Fixed an issue resulting in help links not being accessible when adding a new wireless display device on the Bluetooth & Other Settings page if the text scaling was set to 200%.
Known issues This build has seven known issues: Insiders may notice a new “Cloud download” option in the Windows Recovery Environment (WinRE) under “Reset this PC”. This feature is not working quite yet.
There has been an issue with older versions of anti-cheat software used with games where after updating to the latest 19H1 Insider Preview builds may cause PCs to experience crashes. Make sure you are running the latest version of your games before attempting to update the operating system.
Some Realtek SD card readers are not functioning properly.
The minimize, maximize, and close title bar buttons aren’t working for certain apps. Alt+F4 should work as expected to close the app if needed.
Some WSL distros will not load ( Issue #4371 ).
DWM is using unexpectedly high system resources for some Insiders.
A small number of Insiders get an lsass.exe crash and an error message saying, “Windows ran into a problem and needs to restart.” As always, don’t install this on your production machine.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
