Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Windows 10 is now on over 350 million devices, free Anniversary Update coming on August 2 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Windows 10 Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Microsoft today announced that Windows 10 is now installed on over 350 million devices. It took the latest and greatest operating system from the company about 11 months to hit the new milestone.
Furthermore, Microsoft also confirmed the free Windows 10 Anniversary Update will begin rolling out on August 2. Yesterday, the company accidentally published a blog post titled “Microsoft announces Windows 10 anniversary update available Aug. 2” but with no body. Even though Microsoft pulled the post less than an hour later, the release date had accidentally been revealed early. Now it’s official: The update will be arriving a year and four days after Windows 10’s debut.
Microsoft unveiled the update at its Build 2016 developer conference in March.
 The free upgrade includes Windows Ink , Cortana and Edge improvements, advanced security features for consumers and enterprises, and new gaming experiences , as well as new classroom tools.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Windows 10 is a service.
 That means it is regularly updated with not just fixes, but new features too. Windows 10 was built in a very different way than its predecessors, and it is still being built.
Windows 10 was installed on over 75 million PCs in its first four weeks. It passed 110 million devices after 10 weeks, 200 million in under six months, 270 million after eight months, and then 300 million after nine months.
Microsoft is aiming for 1 billion devices to be running Windows 10 “in two to three years.” Because its free upgrade offer is ending next month, the company has put together a bunch of new deals to renew the push: Students can save $300 when they purchase an Xbox One and Surface or get a free TV when they purchase a Dell PC over $699.
Consumers can get $150 off select HP devices or $100 off select Asus and Samsung devices.
Nothing spectacular here, and Microsoft will frankly need to offer something better quickly if it’s going to hit that 1 billion figure over the next two years.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
