Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Intel debuts Agilex family of FPGAs for datacenter workloads Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Field-programmable gate array (FPGA) — integrated circuits designed to be configured post-manufacture — is a versatile tech with applications in a swath of domains including (but not limited to) high-performance computing, consumer electronics, bioinformatics, medicine, security, and even aerospace and defense. Analysts Statistics MRC pegged the overall industry at $63.05 billion in 2017 and expects it to grow to $117.97 billion by 2026, buoyed by increased demand for optimization in big data analytics and edge computing.
It’s with these metrics top of mind, no doubt, that Intel this week announced a new FPGA product family due out in Q3 of this year: Intel Agilex. It’s a collection of embedded chipsets that the Santa Clara company says address “data-centric” challenges in enterprise networks and datacenters.
As Daniel McNamara, senior VP and general manager of Intel’s Programmable Solutions Group, explained in a conference call with reporters, Agilex products — which are built on Intel’s 10-nanometer (nm) process technology — feature a customizable heterogeneous 3D system-in-package (SiP) that comprises analog, memory, computing, and custom I/O components including DDR5, HBM, and an Intel Optane DC. They’re all fully supported by Intel’s One API, a suite of developer tools for mapping compute engines to a range of processors, graphics chips, field-programmable gate arrays, and other accelerators, and offer a migration path to both structured application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and standard-cell ASICs.
“We’re basing [Agilex] on or what we call EMIB — Embedded Multi-die Interconnect Bridge — which builds the interconnect into the substrate,” McNamara said. “[T]his allows us to put a base FPGA die, and then put any different [tile] all in the same package integrated into one device.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Spotlight features are compatible with Intel’s Compute Express Link (the cache and memory coherent interconnect to future Intel Xeon Scalable processors), and support hardened BFLOAT16 (a floating-point format occupying 16 bits in memory) and up to 40 teraflops of half-precision (FP16) digital signal processor performance. Agilex FPGAs are able to achieve 40 percent higher performance or 40 percent lower total power compared with Intel’s 14nm Stratix 10 FPGAs, thanks in part to their second-generation HyperFlex architecture, and they support transceiver data rates of up to 112Gbps and speedy interconnect peripherals via PCI Express Gen 5.
“[T]his is a big opportunity for FPGA to accelerate some of the packet processing applications in the cloud, where [they’re being] managed and [organized],” McNamara said. “The race to solve data-centric problems requires agile and flexible solutions which can move, store and process data efficiently. Agilex FPGAs deliver customized connectivity and acceleration while delivering much-needed improvements in performance and power for diverse workloads.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
