Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages China’s Didi launches ride-hailing service in Mexico, one of Uber’s biggest strongholds Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn DiDi's new Driver Center in Toluca Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Chinese ride-hailing giant Didi Chuxing (Didi) has officially opened for business in Mexico, one of Uber’s biggest strongholds globally.
Didi is the market leader in China by some distance, swallowing up rivals such as Uber and raising large chunks of money to fund its global ambitions. So far, Didi has not had much of a global etaxi presence, though it did acquire Brazil’s 99 earlier this year and has announced a partnership with SoftBank in Japan to launch a ride-hailing platform in the next year. The company also expanded into Taiwan via a franchise model targeting local taxi drivers, and it has invested in players elsewhere , including Careem, which is big across EMEA.
News emerged earlier this year that Didi was working toward a Mexico launch, its first real own-brand launch outside of China. Today, Didi Express was switched on in Toluca, the capital of the State of Mexico, which is the most populous state in the country.
Above: The Didi app launches in Toluca, Mexico on April 23 Didi Chuxing came to fruition following a merger between local rivals Didi Dache and Kuaidi Dache in 2015. Much like Uber, Didi offers smartphone-based car services such as carpooling, taxis, and premium cars with drivers.
Didi said it started hiring drivers in Toluca earlier this month, though reports emerged in March that the Chinese tech titan was already poaching management staff from Uber in Mexico.
Mexico is one of Uber’s most profitable markets, one in which it has claimed a near monopoly on ride-sharing in recent years. With Didi snapping up Brazil’s 99 in January and news of Didi’s impending Mexico launch, Latin America is emerging as a major battleground in the ride-sharing wars.
That battle will intensify from today, with Didi planning additional services across Mexico “later this year,” according to a press release.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
