Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Didi plans Chile, Peru, and Colombia launches to take on Uber Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Zhongshan, China-April 8, 2018. Person booking a car on Didi ChuXing.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
( Reuters ) — Chinese ride-hailing giant Didi Chuxing is planning to take on U.S. rival Uber in some of Latin America’s fastest-growing markets, recruiting managers in Chile, Peru and Colombia, according to job postings and a company official.
Didi has moved senior executives from China to lead its expansion in markets like Chile and Peru, and began in recent weeks advertising for driver operations, crisis management, marketing and business development personnel in those countries, an analysis of LinkedIn postings show.
Didi’s widening expansion, if successful, could make for a bumpier ride for San Francisco-based Uber Technologies Inc in Latin America, one of its fastest growth regions, as it gets ready to go public as soon as later this year.
The two firms are already battling in Brazil , where Didi bought local start-up 99 in January last year, and Mexico, where the Chinese firm lured drivers with higher pay and bonuses for signing up other drivers and passengers.
Didi is China’s dominant ride-hailing firm and is backed by investors including Japan’s SoftBank Group. In 2016, Didi bought Uber’s local Chinese operations following a bruising two-year battle for domination in China.
The push comes as Didi is laying off staff in China as it grapples with regulatory scrutiny, reportedly significant financial losses and public backlash over the murder of two of its customers, sources told Reuters.
The firm’s new Chile public affairs manager, Felipe Contreras, who was previously Uber’s corporate communications chief in Chile, confirmed reports Didi was looking to hire a senior executive from Chilean cellular phone company WOM to lead its engagement with government and public policy operations.
“We haven’t announced a date; this is internal to the company,” he said when asked about the timing of the hiring.
Contreras confirmed the launch plans and told Reuters that the company’s aim was to be a “market leader” in Chile based on “quality”, in a market where Uber, Spain’s Cabify, and Greece’s Beat already transport thousands of passengers a day.
Didi is still mulling the “best time” to launch its local service, he said, saying: “We are still in the planning and recruitment phase.” Chile’s government has yet to pass a law regulating ride-sharing applications, resulting in a legal gray area which sees Uber, Cabify, and Beat drivers routinely fined by the police for operating without public transport licenses.
The law is still at committee stage and would need approval by both Chile’s lower and upper chambers, a process which could take up to a year.
Contreras said the timeline for Didi’s launch would “not necessarily” hinge on the law’s eventual passing. “We are studying all the variables,” he said.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
