Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Kubernetes troubleshooting platform Komodor raises $42M Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Komodor is a "continuous reliability platform" for Kubernetes Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Let the OSS Enterprise newsletter guide your open-source journey! Sign up here.
Komodor , a company focused on monitoring and troubleshooting all-things Kubernetes , has raised $42 million in a series B round of funding.
Founded out of Israel in 2020, companies deploy Komodor to track changes made across their entire Kubernetes stack, enabling them to inspect any knock-on effects that their changes may inadvertently have and glean context to help resolve the issues.
The rise of Kubernetes The growth of Kubernetes since emerging from Google’s open-source vaults back in 2014 points to a broader industry embrace of containerized applications. Containers, essentially, are software packages that “contain” all the required components for companies looking to deploy their applications across different infrastructure and helps solve the problem of getting software to behave when shifted between environments.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Kubernetes, for its part, helps companies automate many of the manual processes involved in managing these containerized applications and manage their software updates at a higher cadence. But if something goes wrong in the process, it can take devops teams a long time to backtrack and figure out where things went wrong.
While countless startups have arrived on the scene to help businesses conquer all manner of Kubernetes complexity , Komodor is specifically focused on streamlining and automating fixes. It does so by ingesting and centralizing millions of Kubernetes events each day and then helps pinpoint where developers need to be looking to issue a fix.
Less than a year emerging from stealth with $25 million in funding , Komodor’s now looking to double down on its recent growth, which has seen its revenue grow by 700% in the past nine months and its internal headcount triple to 50.
“We’re scaling incredibly fast, directly alongside the massive adoption of Kubernetes,” Komodor CEO and cofounder Ben Ofiri said. “We have talented engineers researching all of the ways things go sideways in Kubernetes and we package this knowledge into automated playbooks for the benefit of our customers.” Komodor’s series B round was led by Tiger Global, with participation from Accel, Felicis, NFX Capital, OldSlip Group, Pitango First and Vine Ventures.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
