Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages CockroachDB update aims to ease creation of data-intensive applications Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
SQL database maker Cockroach Labs , which specializes in handling high-transactional, data-intensive, cloud-based services , today announced a new version of its front-line product, CockroachDB 22.1.
 The new edition is designed to enable app updates across an entire development lifecycle, allowing developers to build scalable applications ostensibly with less effort, the company said.
Using CockroachDB 22.1 and its automation features, engineering teams can now prototype faster, automate more operations and maintain peak performance during massive transaction spikes with a single platform, from start to scale, Chief Product Officer Nate Stewart said in a media advisory.
“From prototype to production, from production to massive scale, building with CockroachDB 22.1 means the database you use to get off the ground is the same one you’ll use as your application and customer base diversifies and grows,” Stewart said.
Chief among the new features are: New command-line tool (CLI) so users can manage and scale their cluster with code Integrations with the popular tools Prisma and Google Pub/Sub Support for time-to-live (TTL), which lets developers set a lifespan for row-level data Super regions address data domiciling regulations for multi-regional and multi-national businesses Quality of service (QoS) lets users maintain high performance while handling millions of transactions per second Admission control and hot spot detection improve performance during high-transaction periods Automate deployment and scaling with a new administrative API Optimize performance with index recommendations and insights into transaction contention The continued growth of the cloud database market during the past dozen years reflects a foundational shift as enterprises transition to a cloud-first IT philosophy and increasingly turn to cloud databases for both new initiatives and to modernize existing systems. However, managing and scaling transactional data has remained a largely manual task and brings with it significant operational headaches, Stewart said.
Cockroach Labs was recently included in Gartner’s Magic Quadrant for cloud database management systems for the first time. “This product reflects the maturity of CockroachDB as a cloud database management system (DBMS) for transactional workloads, and the increasing interest in distributed transactional databases in the market,” the researcher said.
According to Gartner Research, Cockroach’s main competitors are: Oracle Database DataStax Enterprise Redis Enterprise Cloud Cloudera Enterprise Data Hub IBM Db2 Couchbase Server Databricks Lakehouse Platform Vertica Analytics Platform (HP) CockroachDB 22.1 is available now.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
