Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Trump’s China tariffs will expand to phones, laptops, and game consoles in December Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
AirPods, Apple Watch, and HomePod, which have helped Apple to offset waning sales of its bestselling iPhone this year, are not included in a temporary reprieve on tariffs by the Trump administration and will face a 10% levy on September 1.
The administration said on Tuesday some major items, such as laptops and cellphones. including Apple’s MacBooks and iPhones, will not face tariffs until December 15. The delay affecting some of Apple’s biggest-selling products helped send its shares up about 4% in early afternoon trading.
Apple did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Items that face tariffs on September 1 include consumer electronics such as smart watches, fitness trackers, smart speakers, and Bluetooth headphones. These were spared from tariffs last year after the manufacturers sent comment letters to the government. Some accessories have been central to Apple’s efforts to diversify revenue beyond its signature iPhone, which pushed the company’s market capitalization past $1 trillion in 2018 but has gone into decline this year.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The iPhone contributed less than half of Apple’s revenue for the first time in seven years during its latest reported fiscal quarter. The iPhone’s decline was offset by a 50% jump in sales of so-called wearables , such as the Apple Watch and AirPods, helping Apple beat Wall Street estimates and boosting its stock.
In July, Apple CEO Tim Cook said wearables helped Apple sales in China, where iPhone sales have struggled. During the last quarter, the iPhone’s market share in China declined to 5.8% from 6.4%, according to market research firm Canalys, in part because smartphone rival Huawei Technologies gained market share to become the country’s top handset seller.
“We actually grew in mainland China,” Cook told Reuters in an interview on July 30. “Non-iPhone revenue grew 17%. We grew in every category outside of iPhone.” According to lists published by the U.S. Trade Representative’s office, a broad category of items taken off a $200 billion tariff list last year will be subject to a 10% tariff as of September 1.
These include popular products from Apple rivals, such as Fitbit smart watches, smart speakers from Amazon and Alphabet, and Bluetooth connected devices.
Fitbit, Amazon, and Google did not immediately return requests for comment.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
