Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages European Commission names 52 experts to its AI advisory board Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn European Union flags flutter outside the EU Commission headquarters in Brussels, Belgium.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
The European Commission today named 52 experts to its High Level Group on Artificial Intelligence (AI HLG), an advisory body tasked with drafting AI ethics guidelines, anticipating challenges and opportunities in AI, and steering the course of Europe’s machine learning investments.
The 52 new members — 30 men and 22 women — were selected from an applicant pool of 500 and come from titans of industry like Bosch, BMW, Bayer, and AXA, in addition to AI research leaders that include Google, IBM, Nokia Bell Labs, STMicroelectronics, Telenor, Zalando, Element AI, Orange, SAP, Sigfox, and Santander. Among the recruits are Jakob Uszkoreit, an AI Researcher in the Google Brain team, and Jaan Tallinn, a founding engineer of Kazaa and Skype and an early investor in Google subsidiary DeepMind.
Consumer advocacy groups, political advisers, academics, legal experts, and civil society bodies are also represented, including digital rights group Access Now, workers’ rights organization ETUC, and algorithmic transparency group AlgorithmWatch.
Members will meet for the first time on June 27, when they’ll begin drafting guidelines covering the “fairness, safety, and transparency” of AI, evaluating current legislation and informing policy. They’ll also establish “outreach mechanisms” to interact with the AI Alliance, a broader European AI stakeholder group announced in April.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! As part of that engagement effort, the Alliance today launched a public online platform of discussion forums, blogs, documents, and events meant to foster conversations about AI. A list of planned AI HLG and AI Alliance meetings, workshops, and consultations will be made available online via the Commission’s Register of Expert Groups.
“Given the broad impact AI is expected to have, the full participation of all actors, including businesses, academics, policy makers, consumer organisations, trade unions, and other representatives of the civil society is essential,” the European Commission wrote in March. “This is why the Commission plans to set up a European AI Alliance to act as a multi-stakeholder forum engaged in a broad and open discussion of all aspects of AI development and its impact on the economy and society.” Today’s announcement comes just over a month after the White House set up a task force dedicated to U.S. artificial intelligence efforts. In May, alongside technology executives and AI experts, Trump administration officials from the Office of Science and Technology Policy laid out a five-year strategic plan to improve STEM education and open taxpayer data to algorithmic study.
The U.S. and EU aren’t the only superpowers investing heavily in AI. In March, Canada announced the $125 million Pan-Canadian Artificial Intelligence Strategy, which seeks to attract and retain top AI talent and promote collaboration between researchers in the country.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
