Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google’s standalone AR headset is reportedly ‘not unlike’ Microsoft’s HoloLens Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google Daydream View virtual reality headset.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google is still developing a standalone augmented reality headset that can overlay digital objects on the real world, according to a report in WinFuture.
This isn’t the first time we’ve heard rumors of Google developing a standalone headset. In February 2016, the Wall Street Journal reported that the Mountain View firm was prototyping a design with custom head-tracking sensors from Intel’s Movidius , which at the time said it was working with many companies on both virtual reality and augmented reality. Rumors have continued ever since, but today is the first time we’re learning of possible specifications.
The hardware, which bears the internal codename “Google A65” and is described as “not unlike […] Microsoft’s HoloLens ,” will reportedly feature the Qualcomm QSC603, a 10nm system-on-chip designed with Internet of Things (IoT) in mind. It will connect to tablets and other peripherals via Bluetooth 5.1 and Gigabit Wi-Fi, but lack a cellular or 5G modem. Google is reportedly working with Quanta, which manufactured the Pixel C , to prototype the headset.
The details are a little fuzzier with regard to the software. Google’s all-in-one headset is said to support voice recognition, potentially powered by Qualcomm’s Aqstic natural language processing and audio speech recognition technology. But it is unclear whether it will run a variant of Daydream , Google’s operating system for virtual reality headsets, or support ARCore , its AR platform for smartphones and tablets.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The QSC603 is an interesting choice on Google’s part, assuming the rumors are true. The chip, which was unveiled in April, sports a high-end image processor, the Spectra 270, in addition to a quad-core Snapdragon processor, Qualcomm’s Hexagon 685 Vector Processor, and an Adreno 615 GPU. The dual-processor Spectra 270 supports as many as two sensors up to 16MP in resolution, and advanced real-time and post-processing features such as de-warping and de-noising algorithms. The Adreno 615, meanwhile, can output video at a resolution of WQHD (2,560 x 1,440 pixels), and supports popular graphics APIs like Vulkan, OpenGL, and OpenCL.
But perhaps the real highlight of QCS603 is the Hexagon 685, a chip designed to accelerate artificial intelligence (AI) workloads. It’s a part of the Qualcomm Artificial Intelligence (AI) Engine, an overarching heterogeneous compute platform that supports the Android Neural Networks API , open-source machine learning frameworks like Google’s TensorFlow and Caffe2, and Qualcomm’s Hexagon Neural Network library.
If Google’s standalone headset comes to fruition, it is likely to face stiff competition, and not just from Microsoft. AR startup Magic Leap plans to begin shipping the first generation of its headset technology, the Magic Leap One, this year. And according to a CNET report in April, Apple is developing a combination AR/VR headset with a tentative 2020 release date.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
