Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Oracle acquires machine learning platform Datascience.com Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Oracle OpenWorld conference in San Francisco.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Oracle announced today that it has acquired DataScience.com, a privately held cloud workspace platform for data science projects and workloads. Financial terms of the deal were not disclosed.
In the near term, not much will change for customers of Datascience.com — it will continue to offer the same products and services to partners post-acquisition. But Oracle envisions combining its Cloud Infrastructure service with Datascience.com’s tools for a single, unified machine learning solution.
“Every organization is now exploring data science and machine learning as a key way to proactively develop competitive advantage, but the lack of comprehensive tooling and integrated machine learning capabilities can cause these projects to fall short,” Amit Zavery, vice president of Oracle’s Cloud Platform, said in a statement. “With the combination of Oracle and DataScience.com, customers will be able to harness a single data science platform to more effectively leverage machine learning and big data for predictive analysis and improved business results.” Datascience.com, which counts Sonos, EBTH, Amgen, and Rio Tinto among its customers, offers a number of services that help artificial intelligence and data analytics teams coordinate their work remotely, with tools that allow users to share computing resources and corpus data to quickly build out model development workflows and AI solutions.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “Data science requires a comprehensive platform to simplify operations and deliver value at scale,” DataScience.com CEO Ian Swanson said in a press release. “With DataScience.com, customers leverage a robust, easy-to-use platform that removes barriers to deploying valuable machine learning models in production. We are extremely enthusiastic about joining forces with Oracle’s leading cloud platform so customers can realize the benefits of their investments in data science.” In a statement provided to investors and members of the press, Oracle said that it is reviewing Datascience.com’s existing product roadmap and will issue guidance to customers in the coming months.
Today’s acquisition marks Oracle’s latest expansion into the AI sector. At Oracle OpenWorld in San Francisco last October, the Silicon Valley firm took the wraps off Oracle AI Platform Cloud Service, a suite of pre-configured AI libraries and deep learning frameworks, in addition to Oracle Mobile Cloud (a conversational AI platform), Oracle Autonomous Data Cloud (machine learning utility for industrial workloads), Oracle Analytics Cloud (an AI data visualization tool), and Oracle Security and Management Cloud (AI-powered cybersecurity threat analysis).
Oracle, citing research from Deloitte, expects companies to spend more than $57.6 billion on machine learning by 2021, up from $12 billion in 2017.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
