Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Bonsai raises $7.6 million to help companies build their own AI Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Bonsai Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
AI startup Bonsai has raised $7.6 million to grow its platform that simplifies open-source machine learning library TensorFlow to help businesses construct their own artificial intelligence models and incorporate AI into their business.
Bonsai also announced today the opening of an early access program to build and deploy AI models with the Bonsai platform. The platform will focus on AI for fields like robotics but will also use AI to increase efficiency in supply chains in manufacturing and in industrial settings. Siemens will be among early users of the platform.
The $7.6 million funding round was led by Microsoft Ventures and NEA, with participation from Samsung, Siemens, and ABB Technology Ventures.
“Microsoft aims to democratize AI for all — Bonsai is executing on this vision by abstracting away the complexity of machine learning tools, enabling developers and enterprises to more efficiently program intelligence,” said Microsoft Ventures VP Nagraj Kashyap, in a statement shared with VentureBeat. “Their vision and focus make Bonsai a great addition to our AI Fund.
 Bonsai has the technology and team to drive positive societal and business impact, helping people and machines work better together.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The Microsoft AI Fund kicked off last Decembe r with its first investment in Montreal-based Element AI.
Microsoft Ventures also announced that it co-led a $3.5 million round of investment in news summary startup Agolo. Based in New York City, the company uses AI to summarize news for large media companies on Facebook or Amazon’s Alexa.
Bonsai was created in 2014 by Mark Hammond and Keen Browne. The Berkeley, Calif.-based company has raised $13.6 million to date. This year the company has been listed among CB Insight’s AI 100 by CB Insights and in this recent list of enterprise AI companies to follow.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
