Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google confirms acquisition of data science startup Kaggle Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google's Fei-Fei Li announces Google's acquisition of Kaggle at Google Cloud Next 2017 in San Francisco.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
At its Google Cloud Next conference in San Francisco today, Google announced that it has acquired Kaggle, a startup whose website has hosted competitions in which data scientists solve challenges that other companies provide. Terms of the deal weren’t disclosed.
Kaggle competitions have historically provided one way for data scientists to stand out in the crowd in order to get jobs. Now it’s part of Google. But Kaggle’s team will stay together, and Kaggle will keep operating and running competitions — as a distinct brand under the Google Cloud.
“We must lower the barriers of entry to AI and make it available to the largest community of developers, users and enterprises, so they can apply it to their own unique needs. With Kaggle joining the Google Cloud team, we can accelerate this mission,” Fei-Fei Li, chief scientist of Google Cloud AI and Machine Learning, wrote in a blog post.
Kaggle gets something out of the deal, too.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “Making Google Cloud technology available to our community will allow us to offer access to powerful infrastructure, scalable training and deployment services and the ability to store and query large data sets,” Kaggle cofounder and chief executive Anthony Goldbloom wrote in his own blog post.
Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Microsoft Azure , the two public clouds that are bigger than the Google Cloud, also offer data science services. Google Cloud already provides the Cloud Machine Learning Engine , among other managed services for working with data.
TechCrunch reported on the acquisition yesterday.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
