Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Gregory Barber Business Why Didn't Artificial Intelligence Save Us From Covid-19? Photograph: Chris McGrath/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Application Recommendation algorithm Prediction Ethics Regulation Company Google End User Research Government Sector Health care Research Source Data Images Technology Machine learning Machine vision In late January, more than a week before Covid-19 had been given that name, hospitals in Wuhan, China, began testing a new method to screen for the disease, using artificial intelligence.
 The plan involved chest CTs—three-dimensional scans of lungs displayed in finely detailed slices. By studying thousands of such images, an algorithm would learn to decipher whether a given patient's pneumonia appeared to stem from Covid-19 or something more routine, like influenza.
In the US, as the virus spread in February, the idea appeared to hold promise: With conventional tests in short supply, here was a way to get more people screened, fast. Health professionals, however, weren't so sure. Although various diagnostic algorithms have won approval from the US Food and Drug Administration—for wrist fractures, eye diseases, breast cancer—they generally spend months or years in development. They're deployed in different hospitals filled with different kinds of patients, interrogated for flaws and biases, pruned and tested again and again.
Related Stories Public Health Gregory Barber Opinion Alex Engler Machine Vision Tom Simonite Was there enough data on the new virus to truly discern one pneumonia from another? What about mild cases, where the damage may be less clear? The pandemic wasn't waiting for answers, but medicine would have to.
In late March, the United Nations and the World Health Organization issued a report examining the lung CT tool and a range of other AI applications in the fight against Covid-19. The politely bureaucratic assessment was that few projects had achieved “operational maturity.” The limitations were older than the crisis, but aggravated by it. Reliable AI depends on our human ability to collect data and make sense of it. The pandemic has been a case study in why that's hard to do mid-crisis. Consider the shifting advice on mask wearing and on taking ibuprofen, the doctors wrestling with who should get a ventilator and when. Our daily movements are dictated by uncertain projections of who will get infected or die, and how many more will die if we fail to self-isolate.
As we sort out that evidence, AI lags a step behind us. Yet we still imagine that it possesses more foresight than we do.
Take drug development. One of the flashiest AI experiments is by Google-affiliated DeepMind.
 The company's AlphaFold system is a champion at the art of protein modeling—predicting the shape of tiny structures that make up the virus. In the lab, divining those structures can be a months-long process; DeepMind, when it released schematics for six viral proteins in March, had done it in days. The models were approximations, the team cautioned, churned out by an experimental system. But the news left an impression: AI had joined the vaccine race.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg In the vaccine community, however, the effort elicited a shrug.
“I can't see much of a role for AI right now,” says Julia Schaletzky, a veteran drug discovery researcher and head of UC Berkeley's Center for Emerging and Neglected Diseases. Plenty of well-defined protein targets have been confirmed in labs without the help of AI. It would be risky to spend precious time and grants starting from scratch, using the products of an experimental system. Technological progress is good, Schaletzky says, but it's often pushed at the expense of building on what's known and promising.
She says there's potential in using AI to help find treatments. AI algorithms can complement other data-mining techniques to help us sift through reams of information we already have—to spot encouraging threads of research, for example, or older treatments that hold promise. One drug identified this way, baricitinib, is now going to clinical trials. Another hope is that AI could yield insights into how Covid-19 attacks the body. An algorithm could mine lots of patient records and determine who is more at risk of dying and who is more likely to survive, turning anecdotes whispered between doctors into treatment plans.
But again, it's all a matter of data—what data we've already gathered, and whether we've organized it in a way that's useful for machines. Our health care system doesn't give up information easily to train such systems; privacy regulations and balkanized data silos will stop you even before the antiquated, error-filled health databases do.
It's possible this crisis will change that. Maybe it will push us to rethink how data is stored and shared. Maybe we'll keep studying this virus even after the chaos dissipates and the attention wanes, giving us solid data—and better AI—when the next pandemic arrives. For now, though, we can't be surprised that AI hasn't saved us from this one.
This article appears in the June issue.
Subscribe now.
Let us know what you think about this article. Submit a letter to the editor at mail@wired.com.
Is the Brain a Useful Model for Artificial Intelligence ? As Machines Get Smarter, How Will We Relate to Them ? Are AI-Powered Killer Robots Inevitable ? It's Called Artificial Intelligence—but What Is Intelligence ? Staff Writer X Topics magazine-28.06 COVID-19 coronavirus artificial intelligence Will Knight Will Knight Khari Johnson Will Knight Khari Johnson Niamh Rowe Matt Laslo Peter Guest Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
