Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Allie Funk Security I Opted Out of Facial Recognition at the Airport—It Wasn't Easy Stephanie Yeow/AP Save this story Save Save this story Save The announcement came as we began to board. Last month, I was at Detroit’s Metro Airport for a connecting flight to Southeast Asia. I listened as a Delta Air Lines staff member informed passengers that the boarding process would use facial recognition instead of passport scanners.
Allie Funk is a research analyst for Freedom on the Net , Freedom House's annual country-by-country assessment of internet freedom. She focuses on developments in the US and Asia.
As a privacy-conscious person, I was uncomfortable boarding this way. I also knew I could opt out. Presumably, most of my fellow fliers did not: I didn't hear a single announcement alerting passengers how to avoid the face scanners.
To figure out how to do so, I had to leave the boarding line, speak with a Delta representative at their information desk, get back in line, then request a passport scan when it was my turn to board. Federal agencies and airlines claim that facial recognition is an opt-out system, but my recent experience suggests they are incentivizing travelers to have their faces scanned—and disincentivizing them to sidestep the tech—by not clearly communicating alternative options. Last year, a Delta customer service representative reported that only 2 percent of customers opt out of facial-recognition. It's easy to see why.
As I watched traveler after traveler stand in front of a facial scanner before boarding our flight, I had an eerie vision of a new privacy-invasive status quo. With our faces becoming yet another form of data to be collected, stored, and used, it seems we’re sleepwalking toward a hyper-surveilled environment, mollified by assurances that the process is undertaken in the name of security and convenience. I began to wonder: Will we only wake up once we no longer have the choice to opt out? Until we have evidence that facial recognition is accurate and reliable—as opposed to simply convenient—travelers should avoid the technology where they can.
The facial recognition plan in US airports is built around the Customs and Border Protection Biometric Exit Program , which utilizes face-scanning technology to verify a traveler’s identity. CBP partners with airlines—including Delta, JetBlue, American Airlines, and others—to photograph each traveler while boarding. That image gets compared to one stored in a cloud-based photo-matching service populated with photos from visas, passports, or related immigration applications. The Biometric Exit Program is used in at least 17 airports, and a recently-released Department of Homeland Security report states that CBP anticipates having the ability to scan the faces of 97 percent of commercial air passengers departing the United States by 2023.
This rapid deployment of facial recognition in airports follows a 2017 executive order in which President Trump expedited former President Obama’s efforts to use biometric technology. The Transportation Security Administration has since unveiled its own plan to improve partnership with CBP and to introduce the technology throughout the airport. The opportunity for this kind of biometric collection infrastructure to feed into a broader system of mass surveillance is staggering, as is its ability to erode privacy.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg Proponents of these programs often argue that facial recognition in airports promotes security while providing convenience. But abandoning privacy should not be a prerequisite for achieving security. And in the case of technology like facial recognition, the “solution” can quickly become a deep and troubling problem of its own.
For starters, facial recognition technology appears incapable of treating all passengers equally at this stage.
Research shows that it is particularly unreliable for gender and racial minorities: one study , for example, found a 99 percent accuracy rate for white men, while the error rate for women who have darker skin reached up to 35 percent. This suggests that, for women and people of color, facial recognition could actually cause an increase in the likelihood to be unfairly targeted for additional screening measures.
Americans should be concerned about whether images of their faces collected by this program will be used by companies and shared across different government agencies. Other data collected for immigration purposes—like social media details—can be shared with federal, state, and local agencies. If one government agency has a database with facial scans, it would be simple to share the data with others. This technology is already seeping into everyday life, and the increased regularity with which Americans encounter facial recognition as a matter of course while traveling will reinforce this familiarity; in this context, it is easy to imagine content from a government-operated facial recognition database being utilized in other settings aside from airports—say, for example, monitoring peaceful protests.
There are also serious concerns about CBP’s storage of this data. A database with millions of facial scans is extremely sensitive, and breaches seem inevitable. Indeed, CBP officials recently revealed that thousands of photos of people’s faces and license plates were compromised after a cyberattack on a federal subcontractor. Once this sort of data is made insecure, there is no hope of getting it back. One cannot simply alter their face like they can their phone number or email address.
Importantly, there have been some efforts to address facial recognition in airports. The government’s Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board recently announced an aviation-security project to assess privacy and civil liberties implications with biometric technologies. Members of Congress have also shared similar concerns.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg Nevertheless, the Biometric Exit Program needs to be stopped until it prioritizes travelers’ privacy and resolves its technical and legal shortcomings.
 At the state and local level, public opposition has driven cities and states to consider—and, in some cases, enact —restrictions on the use of facial recognition technology. The same healthy skepticism should be directed toward the technology’s deployment at our airports.
Congress needs to supplement pressure from travelers with strong data protection laws that provide greater transparency and oversight. This should include strict limits on how long companies and government agencies can retain such intimate data. Private companies should not be allowed to utilize data collected for business purposes, and federal agencies should not be able to freely share this data with other parts of government. Policymakers should also ensure that biometric programs undergo thorough and transparent civil rights assessments prior to implementation.
Until measures like these are met, travelers should be critical when submitting to facial recognition technology in airports. Ask yourself: Is saving a few minutes worth handing over your most sensitive biometric information? WIRED Opinion publishes pieces written by outside contributors and represents a wide range of viewpoints. Read more opinions here.
 Submit an op-ed at opinion@wired.com.
A device to detect “aggression” in schools often misfires Disney's new Lion King is the VR-fueled future of cinema Google Photos hacks to tame your picture overload It's time to switch to a privacy browser YouTube's “shitty robot” queen made a Tesla pickup truck 📱 Torn between the latest phones? Never fear—check out our iPhone buying guide and favorite Android phones 📩 Hungry for even more deep dives on your next favorite topic? Sign up for the Backchannel newsletter Topics opinion Airports face recognition Andy Greenberg Lily Hay Newman David Gilbert Dell Cameron Andy Greenberg Reece Rogers Matt Burgess Lily Hay Newman Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
