Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Will Knight Business Why It's So Hard to Count Twitter Bots Photograph: MirageC/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Application Content moderation End User Big company Research Sector Social media Source Data Clickstream Text Technology Machine learning Is the Twitter account @ElonMusk a bot? One of the best algorithms for detecting fake accounts thinks it might be , which shows how challenging it is to quantify the proportion of fake accounts across the social network.
Counting Twitter bots has become a point of contention in Elon Musk ’s ongoing $44 billion acquisition of Twitter.
 Last Friday, the billionaire tweeted that he was putting his purchase “temporarily on hold” until the company provided details to back up its claim (as stated in its latest SEC filing ) that fewer than 5 percent of “monetizable daily active users” on Twitter are spam or fake. Musk also outlined a plan to count bots himself that involved sampling 100 @Twitter followers to see how many were bots and said the approach suggests over 20 percent of accounts are fake.
But accurately quantifying the percentage of bots on Twitter is a lot more difficult, according to experts.
Finding them isn’t hard if you know where to look. Certain accounts, including Musk’s, seem to attract plenty of them. “If you simply mention Elon Musk on Twitter, you immediately get engaged with a ton of crypto bots,” says Chris Bail , a professor of sociology at Duke University who studies social media.
Twitter is not the only social network to struggle with fake accounts. Facebook removes billions of bogus accounts every year.
 But it is hard to know for certain that an account on Twitter is a bot, since legitimate users may have few followers, rarely tweet, or have strange usernames. It is even more difficult to gauge the number of bots that operate across the platform as a whole.
To test Musk’s proposed methodology , IV.ai , an AI company, looked at 100 accounts that follow Musk’s car manufacturing company Tesla on Twitter.
An algorithmic examination of the accounts on Tuesday found that more than 20 accounts out of 100 have a high likelihood of being bots. A manual examination of the same 100 concluded that more than half may be bots. And an analysis of the topics discussed by those accounts did not find evidence that any of the suspected accounts were promotional. But many of those accounts also disappeared shortly after, suggesting that Twitter catches bots fairly quickly.
Vince Lynch , CEO of IV.ai, says identifying dubious accounts is also inherently subjective and involves a degree of uncertainty.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg “It’s a very hard problem,” says Filippo Menczer , a professor at Indiana University who led the development of the Botometer algorithm , which gave Musk’s account a relatively high bot score. Menczer says that looking at 100 accounts will not be representative of Twitter’s daily active users, and different samples will produce wildly different results. “I want to hope that that was a joke,” Menczer says of the methodology.
Automated accounts have become more sophisticated and complex in recent years. Many fake accounts are partly operated by humans, as well as machines, or just amplify messages written by real people (what Menczer calls “cyborg accounts”). Other accounts use tricks designed to evade human and algorithmic detection, such as rapidly liking and unliking tweets or posting and deleting tweets. And of course there are plenty of automated or semi-automated accounts, such as those run by many companies, that aren’t actually harmful.
The Botometer algorithm uses machine learning to assess a wide range of public data tied to an account—not just the content of tweets, but when messages are sent, who follows an account, and so on—to determine the likelihood of it being a bot. Although the algorithm is state of the art, Menczer says, “a lot of accounts now fall to the range where the algorithm is basically not very sure.” Menczer and others say that spotting bots is a game of cat and mouse. But they add that it may become significantly more challenging in the future as spammers use algorithms that are better able to generate convincing text and hold coherent conversations.
Twitter itself is better equipped to spot bots using machine learning because it has access to a lot more data about each account. This includes a user’s full history of activity, as well as the different IP addresses and devices they use. But Delip Rao , a machine learning expert who worked on spam detection at Twitter from 2011 to 2013, says the company may not be able to reveal how this works because doing so could disclose personal data or information that could be used to manipulate the platform’s recommendation system.
This week, Musk also got into a spat with Parag Agrawal, Twitter’s CEO, over how easily the company could disclose its methodology for finding bots. On Monday, Agrawal posted a thread explaining how complex the challenge still is. He noted that the private data Twitter holds may change calculations around the number of bots on the service. “FirstnameBunchOfNumbers with no profile pic and odd tweets might seem like a bot or spam to you, but behind the scenes we often see multiple indicators that it’s a real person,” he wrote in the thread. Agrawal also said that Twitter could not disclose details of these assessments.
If Twitter is unable, or unwilling, to reveal its methodology and Musk says he won’t proceed without details, the deal may remain in limbo. Of course, Musk could be using the issue as leverage to negotiate the price down.
For now, Musk seems dissatisfied with Twitter’s efforts to explain why finding bots is not as easy as he thinks. He responded to Agrawal’s long thread on Monday with a simple message that seemed far more fitting for a bot than a prospective buyer of Twitter: a single, smiling poop emoji.
Update 5/9/2022 12:00 ET: This piece has been updated to not imply that IV.ai singlehandedly identified bot-like activity among accounts amplifying misinformation about US voter fraud.
You Might Also Like … 📧 Find the best bargains on quality gear with our Deals newsletter “ Someone is using photos of me to talk to men” First-gen social media users have nowhere to go The truth behind the biggest (and dumbest) battery myths We asked a Savile Row tailor to test all the “best” T-shirts you see in social media ads My kid wants to be an influencer.
 Is that bad? 🌞 See if you take a shine to our picks for the best sunglasses and sun protection Senior Writer X Topics twitter Elon Musk artificial intelligence Kari McMahon Will Knight David Gilbert Andy Greenberg Amit Katwala Joel Khalili David Gilbert Joel Khalili Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
