Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Davey Alba Business Clarifai Wants You to Correct AI's Biggest Gaffes Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Artificial intelligence can do remarkable things, like recognize faces on social networks, instantly translate speech from one language to another, and identify commands barked into a smartphone. But it also can do stupid things, like label an African-American couple "gorillas." The artificial intelligence underpinning Google Photos did just that last year. The platform uses deep neural networks to identify images in your photo collection. These networks of hardware and software, modeled after the network of neurons in your brain, learn to recognize objects, animals, and faces by analyzing many millions of pre-labeled photos. It works incredibly well, but as Google proved, it's not perfect. And so the company decided to stop labeling anything as a gorilla. (And apologize profusely).
Researchers strive to solve the sometimes egregious limitations of this breed of AI, called deep learning, as it evolves. Matthew Zeiler, the founder and CEO of the New York startup Clarifai, is developing deep learning technologies similar to Google's. He's offering them to the world's businesses to use as they like. And he's offering tools that he hopes will allow them to sidestep the kind of gaffe Google experienced with Photos.
It's part of a broader effort to democratize the deep learning technologies created by the likes of Google, Facebook, and Microsoft. Companies like Algorithmia and MetaMind (now owned by Salesforce.com) offers services similar to those provided by Clarifai. There's an online marketplace for deep learning algorithms.
 And even Google and Microsoft are beginning to offer deep learning APIs to outside businesses via their computing services.
When it launched in 2013, Clarifai would train deep learning models for customers. Now it lets them train neural nets of their own.
 That may sound daunting, but the company hopes to ease the process through a simplified user interface. Zeiler says you can train its image recognition system on as few as 10 data examples with no coding necessary. You can refine the parameters with more manual controls. You can train an AI model to recognize shoes, for instance, and then, by tagging a few Nike shoes, you can teach it recognize Nikes.
Businesses could use this for e-commerce. They could allow customers to snap a photo of a piece of furniture, upload it to a website, and see who makes it. Businesses could also use the system to filter unwanted content like nudity from their sites. By democratizing the training of deep learning, Zeiler says, the system can avoid the situation like the gorilla gaffe. “To solve some of the gaffes we’ve seen, we need a diverse set of users,” he says. “We need them from different backgrounds and different viewpoints.” Independent AI developer Guarav Oberoi is skeptical. According to him, any AI model is going to get some predictions wrong. But hopefully, as time goes on, the people training AI will keep this to a minimum.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg Topics artificial intelligence deep learning Startups Steven Levy Niamh Rowe Khari Johnson Steven Levy Will Knight Will Knight Khari Johnson Peter Guest Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
