Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Magazine View previous issues MIT News Magazine Hacking the Biological Clock Inside the quest to slow aging, extend fertility, and defeat cancer.
Letter from the editor View previous issue View next issue Features Categorized in Biotechnology and health Google’s Long, Strange Life-Span Trip Why does a mole rat live 30 years but a mouse only three? With $1.5 billion in the bank, Google’s anti-aging spinout Calico is rich enough to find out.
Categorized in Biotechnology and health Rejuvenating the Chance of Motherhood? An audacious startup thinks it can give 40-ish women a better shot at having children. Should desperate would-be parents believe it? Categorized in 17035 The Cancer Lottery Finding telltale mutations in tumors and targeting those cancers with precisely selected drugs is the newest front in the war on cancer. Now researchers just have to figure out why it doesn’t work for everyone.
Categorized in Computing The Unacceptable Persistence of the Digital Divide Millions of Americans lack broadband access and computer skills. Can President Trump bring them into the digital economy? Categorized in Policy The Pentagon’s Innovation Experiment The U.S. Department of Defense founded a kind of startup in Silicon Valley to accelerate the development and acquisition of new technologies useful to the military. But will it survive President Trump? Categorized in Artificial intelligence Mining 24 Hours a Day with Robots Mining companies are rolling out autonomous trucks, drills, and trains, which will boost efficiency but also reduce the need for human employees.
Also in this issue Ghana’s Last Mile Innovative African e-tailers are offering sought-after goods to the continent’s growing ­middle class. But logistical challenges must be worked out delivery by delivery.
Categorized in 17036 Mr. Robot Killed the Hollywood Hacker The popular portrayal of computers as magic boxes capable of anything has done real societal harm. Now one TV show wants to save us.
Categorized in 17036 Hotter Days Will Drive Global Inequality Rising temperatures due to climate change will strongly affect economic growth around the world, making some countries richer and some poorer.
Categorized in Climate change and energy If Only AI Could Save Us from Ourselves Google has an ambitious plan to use artificial intelligence to weed out abusive comments and defang online mobs. The technology isn’t up to that challenge—but it will help the Internet’s best-behaving communities function better.
Categorized in 17041 Meet the World’s First Completely Soft Robot Researchers use an ingenious design to make a soft robot that moves on its own.
Categorized in Humans and technology Amazon’s Next Big Move: Take Over the Mall Unable to resist any opportunity to sell you something, the e-commerce leader is opening up brick-and-mortar bookstores. But its online prowess doesn’t yet translate into a very good retail experience.
Categorized in 17036 Will the Climate Treaty Get the Money It Needs? If Donald Trump pulls back on the U.S. commitment, the entire plan could crumble.
Categorized in 17037 37 Years Ago: How to Fix Democracy A computer scientist who saw congressional decision-making up close in 1980 found it insufficient to the task of solving big problems.
Categorized in 17036 Past issues Updated The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
