Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Lily Hay Newman Security How Google's Android Keyboard Keeps ‘Smart Replies’ Private Illustration: Elena Lacey Save this story Save Save this story Save Google has infused its so-called Smart Reply feature, which uses machine learning to suggest words and sentences you may want to type next, into various email products for the past several years.
 But with Android 11, those contextual nudges—including emojis and stickers—are built directly into Gboard, Google's popular keyboard app.
 They can follow you everywhere you type. The real trick? Figuring out how to keep the AI that powers all of this from becoming a privacy nightmare.
First, some basics. Google has been adamant for years that Gboard doesn't retain or send any data about your keystrokes. The only time the company knows what you're typing on Gboard is when you use the app to submit a Google search or input other data to the company's services that it would see from any keyboard. But offering reply recommendations has broader potential privacy implications, since the feature relies on real-time analysis of everything that's going on in your mobile life to make useful suggestions.
"Within Gboard we want to be smart, we want to give you the right emoji prediction and the right text prediction," says Xu Liu, Gboard's director of engineering. "But we don’t want to log anything you type, and there's no text or content going to any server at all. So that's a big challenge, but privacy is our number one engineering focus." To achieve that privacy, Google is running all of the necessary algorithms locally on your device. It doesn't see your data or send it anywhere. And there's another thing: Google isn't trusting the Gboard app itself to do any of that processing.
"It's great to see advanced machine learning research work its way into practical use for strictly on-device applications,” says Kenn White, a security engineer and founder of the Open Crypto Audit Project.
Even with the precaution of keeping all the AI magic on the device, giving a keyboard app access to the content that feeds those calculations would be high risk. Malicious apps, for example, could try to attack the keyboard app to access data they shouldn't be able to see. So the Gboard team had an idea: Why not box Gboard out of the equation entirely and have the Android operating system itself run the machine learning analyses to determine response recommendations? Android already runs all of your apps and services, meaning you've already entrusted it with your data. And any malware that's sophisticated enough to take control of your smartphone's operating system can ransack the whole thing anyway. Even in a worst-case scenario, the reasoning goes, letting Android oversee predictive replies doesn't create an additional avenue for attack.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg So when Gboard pops up three suggestions of what to type next in Android 11, you're actually not looking at the Gboard app when you scan those options. Instead, you're experiencing a sort of composite of Gboard and the Android platform itself.
"It's a seamless experience, but we have two layers," Google's Liu says. "One is the keyboard layer, and the other is the operating system layer, but it’s transparent." Gboard is the default keyboard on stock Android, but it's also available on iOS. These new features aren't available for iPhone and iPad owners, but because Android is open source, Google can offer the same predictive feature it's using in Gboard for any third-party keyboard to incorporate into its app. This way, alternative keyboards don't have to do anything sneaky or try to work around Android's permission limits for apps to offer predictive replies. And the whole system is powered by Google's "federated learning" techniques , a way of building machine learning models off of data sets that come from all different sources and are never combined—like using data from everyone's phones to refine prediction algorithms without ever moving the data off their devices.
"Users don’t think of the keyboard a lot, it’s just there, and in some ways we think that that is a success," says Angana Ghosh, Gboard's product lead. "But all the work we are doing behind the scenes is a pretty big investment from a Google perspective. We support more than 900 languages and have a deep understanding of how people communicate. Over 50 percent of the time users spend on mobile is in chats, so for us it is extremely important to make sure that that space is private—private to the user and the recipient." This doesn't mean that adding the feature is entirely without risk. The more you build software out, the more opportunities there are to accidentally introduce bugs and flaws that could be exploited by bad actors. But developing the recommendation engine to run through Android itself instead of Gboard is an important gesture.
"The fact is that, for many of us, virtually all our personal data flow through our phones and depend on trust in that technology," says the Open Crypto Audit Project's White. "There's a significant burden on Google to ensure that these types of features are built in good faith." 📩 Want the latest on tech, science, and more? Sign up for our newsletters ! The cheating scandal that ripped the poker world apart Your “ethnicity estimate” doesn’t mean what you think it does Uncle Sam is looking for recruits—over Twitch What are ebike “classes” and what do they mean ? The Trump team has a plan to not fight climate change 🎮 WIRED Games: Get the latest tips, reviews, and more 🎧 Things not sounding right? Check out our favorite wireless headphones , soundbars , and Bluetooth speakers Senior Writer X Topics messaging Gmail Google Android privacy David Gilbert Andrew Couts Kate O'Flaherty Lily Hay Newman David Gilbert Dhruv Mehrotra Amanda Hoover Reece Rogers Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
