Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Christina Bonnington Gear Why the MacBook's New USB-C Is the Port of the Future The new USB-C port is reversible, and it handles power, HDMI, and data transport.
Apple Save this story Save Save this story Save Yesterday, Apple showed off the MacBook, a new laptop notable for its thinness, its gold coloring, and most surprisingly, the absence of all but one solitary port. It's called USB Type-C, and it's going to transform gadgets as we know them.
Envisioning a future of laptops with just one input---aside from the headphone jack---is like entering an aquarium full of single-tentacled octopi. It's unsettling. How do I charge it? Where does my SD card go? Why can't I hook my computer up to more than two things at once? These are all fair questions, but they can all find an answer in USB Type-C (or USB-C for short). Here's a quick rundown of what you need to know.
A USB-C plug is slender, about the same size as a micro-USB (8.4mm by 2.6mm), but it's reversible. Like Apple's Lightning connector, upside down and right-side up are one and the same. So if you're plugging in your MacBook in the dark, there's no need to futz and fiddle to figure out which way it needs to be plugged in.
It's like a USB on steroids. First off, charging: USB-C can deliver bi-directional power. It can be used to charge a host device, or it can allow the host device to charge a peripheral. It can handle large loads too, delivering up to 20V at 5A (100W). That's more than enough to charge up a notebook, or multiple mobile devices simultaneously.
USB-C is also faster than our current USB-B standard. Data transfers can run at rates up to 10 Gbps, but it's backwards compatible with older USB standards, as long as you have an adapter. Right now, our fastest USB Type B devices transfer data at half that speed.
If you want to nerd out on some more details about USB-C, Ars Technica has more information.
For that, you'll need an adapter, and Apple has a number of options already available: USB-C to USB ($19), USB-C to HDMI, and USB to VGA (both $79). DisplayPort, gigabit Ethernet, SD card adapters, and other connector standards should arrive soon, both from Apple and from third parties.
However, Apple is betting that in the future, you'll have fewer and fewer things you actually need to plug into your computer, thanks to the proliferation of wireless, Bluetooth and Wi-Fi-connected devices.
Wireless headphones are actually worth listening to now, wireless speakers abound, and for things like wearables, you'll likely just leave the charger next to your bed or at your desk.
Regardless of your opinion of the company or its products, USB-C is not another proprietary connector from Apple. It's a new, industry-wide standard, and we should be seeing devices from all sorts of different manufacturers using USB-C in the not-too-distant future. Apple's new MacBook is the first consumer notebook to embrace USB-C.
Yes! Sandisk makes a 32 GB flash drive with a Type C connector, and Lacie's Porsche Design Mobile Drive now comes with a USB-C connector as well. It comes in 500GB, 1TB, or 2TB variants.
The recently announced Nokia N1 also features a Type C connector, however, Nokia's implementation sticks with the current 5Mbps speed standard of USB-B devices.
Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Topics accessories apple peripherals USB Brenda Stolyar Scott Gilbertson Brenda Stolyar Brenda Stolyar Brendan Nystedt Nena Farrell Jaina Grey Brenda Stolyar WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
