Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons John Boyega Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions About Released on 09/06/2022 Hi, I'm John Boyega.
And this is the Wired auto complete interview.
[upbeat music] Huh, these people are really Googling out here.
[upbeat music] What is John Boyega? Do I reveal? Known for? I feel like I'm known for Attack the Block to some people and Star Wars to most cause I've done a little film called Star Wars.
It was an indie, low budget, not a lot of funding but a lot of people know it for some reason.
So, I say, Star Wars.
What is John Boyega doing now? Well, right now I'm doing press for three movies Breaking, The Woman King, and They Cloned Tyrone.
But in my free time, I'm going on dates.
I'm going go karting spending time with friends and going to parties.
What is John Boyega's next movie? I actually don't know.
I'm kind of waiting for these three to come out so someone can see it and then give me a job next year.
Honestly, that's just how it works, guys.
You just gotta do projects, everyone sees it, and then the next year.
But the savings are correct.
I've got enough in the savings.
John Boyega what's in the box? Oh! [laughs] All right, we need to do a part two to this.
Me and Gwen, right? I think that's what everyone's referring to.
Yeah, me and Gwen done this silly, silly show called What's in the Box where we had to basically put our hands in the box and feel lizard, spiders, and all different types of critters.
Good times I miss you, Gwen.
What school did John Boyega go to? I went to an amazing school called Westminster City for boys.
[fart sound] [laughs] I didn't like secondary, well, we call it secondary school.
You lot call it high school.
I didn't enjoy it.
I didn't enjoy it.
I enjoyed college.
I enjoyed university.
And I enjoyed primary school prior to that.
But high school for me was like, I have no money.
I couldn't afford the sneakers that everybody had.
I didn't have the clothes to fit in and stuff.
So, I was just like, Ah.
But then it got to college.
College is when I sprout.
[laughs] [board hits floor] Does John Boyega...
Oh, I'm getting worried now.
Does John Boyega have tattoos? Yeah, I do.
I didn't show them much.
I've had tattoos for a long time people.
I just, yeah, I just wasn't showing them a lot.
So, whenever people see my arms, they're like, Oh! But yeah I have a few tattoos, yeah.
This is a tattoo that I got in representation of my sisters.
My two older siblings, Blessing and Grace.
And then my love for wolves and horse riding.
The synergy in family is so important to me.
And wolves naturally have that synergy in family obviously they roll in packs but the love between them.
My siblings, Blessing, Grace, and John, are represented by three cubs with one wolf, with their breath, going into a horse.
I design all my tattoos.
I sketch and draw and give it to the artists.
So, it's just something like a binding tattoo to remind me of the love between me, Blessing, and Grace, my two older sisters who I love dearly.
I love ya.
And when you lot getting yours? Cus I'm sick and tired of being the only one.
Does John Boyega have an Oscar? I do.
I have an Oscar Isaac.
[Director] What's the most meaningful recognition you have received? The most meaningful so far is my statue at Madam Two Souls.
That is cool.
And I've been seeing some pictures, people uploading going to see this, the wax figure that's been real cool.
Does John Boyega watch anime? Yeah, I do.
I watch Attack on Titan.
I watch Naruto.
I watch One Piece.
I'm on Demon Slayer right now, which I'm enjoying.
I definitely think the style of storytelling for anime is something that other genres can't particularly capture.
But I think that's what anime is for.
I think anime also the story, the story, sometimes a lot of these stories last over 10 years, like you you're with one character for a long amount of time.
Apart from TV, it's very hard to see that kind of content out there too.
Also it's the seriousness and depth in anime.
It's 2D, but you have emotions for the characters as if they actually they have oxygen and blood running through their veins.
So, it's a unique style of storytelling that I really, really love.
And a lot of people do too.
Does John Boyega work out? At the moment, no.
Know what, I want this belly to hang off for a little bit.
I realized soft and muscular, a little bit of dad bod, a little bit of lean and that's what I'm on right now.
And then when I get a role that requires me to be like, Spiderman get that Tom Holland body going on, then I'll change.
But right now I'm on a break.
[Director] Did I ever read that you had some unusual names for the equipment? Dumbbells, chicken drumsticks.
The plates, call them pizza stacks.
When you see a pizza stacked on top of each other I recognize that if I go to the gym, calories has to be a part of my workout in some way because I really like eating and I sometimes hate dieting So, I just call the equipment That's meant to make me look good food that I like.
So, pizza and drumsticks.
And the barbells, I call lollipop.
Cause you know, you know what I mean? But that's just me, guys. I'm weird like that.
[Boom] All right.
All right, this is what people are Googling.
Who John Boyega.
What? People just don't fill out the words.
Who is John Boyega? Why did a person Google this? What they had seen me and then was like, Oh, who is, oh yeah, yeah.
They probably saw me in a trailer and said, Who is that? Well, hi guys. I'm John.
I'm an actor.
I'm a producer.
And I'm just a young 30 year old man.
Who does John Boyega play in Star Wars? I will act as if I am not slightly offended by that question.
But I play a guy called Finn, FN-2187.
Who's a storm trooper turned rebel.
If you haven't watched it now, bloody hell.
I think people underappreciated his lineup in episode nine.
If you recognize episode seven and eight, Finn's hair, he ain't had no lineup.
Nine I got that sorted for you guys.
And then no one gave the character props for that.
So, I have a problem. They didn't appreciate his hairstyle.
Who does John Boyega support? [lips flapping] Mom, dad, wait, wait, is this financial support or is this just moral and that? [laughs] I support a whole bunch of people.
I support some young people through via converse and my filmmaking scheme.
I support some young people at Damilola Taylor center down in the UK, done a few charities and stuff.
And then I financially support mom and dad.
Mom, Dad, just send me the email when you want me to buy you something.
Who is John Boyega dating? We've going on a few dates actually.
I've actually, I have time to actually go out on dates and go on dinners, went to one yesterday.
Nailed it.
Let's see if I get a second one.
See how she feels.
So I'm gonna let you guys know in the next interview, but she was fine.
What I like about being single is that you're given the time to do the work the individual work to work on yourself get your yourself in order.
Get your mind right.
You have the freedom to do for self, which I think is important.
All right.
Is John Boyega, is John Boyega in Kenobi? No, definitely not in Kenobi because Finn is not alive in terms of the cannon and the timeline.
I love it.
I love everyone.
I've been loving it.
I've been having fun with that.
I think it's cool.
I like the fact that Hayden is back, which is fun to see my guy Anakin.
You know and Anakin's one of my faves.
So, I'm enjoying it.
Is John Boyega Nigerian.
[laughs] What kind of question is that? Can you not see the back of my head, the shape of my head? You can all tell when you got in Nigerian brother.
I'm definitely Nigerian.
Actually I have dual citizenship.
So, I have a passport in the UK and I have a passport in Nigeria since birth.
So, yeah, I'm a fully Nigerian. Yeah.
Is John Boyega still acting? Who the hell put this in? Absolutely. A lot of people do ask me that though.
And I understand because it takes us a long time to film the projects.
But just remember guys, before we bring out the projects I have to film them.
So, it took me two years to film these three projects that come out this year.
So, yeah, it takes a long time, but yeah, I am still acting.
Thank you for asking.
Is John Boyega nice? Yeah, yeah, of course.
Yeah. Nice.
Can't be starting no problems.
If you start a problem with me, however, but in general I'm nice. Yeah. I'm cool.
Welcome.
[board hits floor] How John Boyega, how to pronounce John Boyega.
John bo-ye-ga.
Bodega but then just add that y.
For everyone in New York.
How old is John Boyega? I just turned the big three oh.
But obviously fanboy, no pimple, young face.
And then you can look like you're still in your twenties like me.
Thinking my thirties- Well, I'm saying in my thirties like I've been here for a minute, but in terms of just getting here and the information I've been hearing from a lot of other 30 year olds that I've been kind of like listening to, you do things more on purpose.
You have much more of an intuition about what you want.
And I'm looking forward to that more and more.
How did John Boyega become an actor? From primary school I did performing art stuff and I wasn't good at much else.
I tried football.
It was all social circles, I tried to get into the football group, couldn't do that.
I tried to be a part of the highly academic group.
You know, the A Star students, couldn't do that.
Tried to be part of the nerds, got too bored.
Couldn't do that.
Then I saw all the performing arts people doing contemporary dance and tap and they accepted me and I said, Oh, I'm a theater kid.
So, I joined that group.
And then from there I got a corp opportunity with a scholarship to Theater PCCA.
So, I'm quite lucky I was helped.
[Director] Did I read that your first role was a leopard? First of all, I don't like the way you asked that question as if that isn't one of my most known roles.
This is obviously I'm very famous for my first role.
My starring role actually as the leopard in the Anansi Spider-Man stories, which is based off of the old folktale Jamaican books.
I played the leopard, which is you guys wanna see this his turn in, this is ridiculous.
I would say better than anything I've done before.
And that's Star Wars included. All of them.
My first gig.
How tall is John Boyega? Always wanted to answer this.
Guys, it is five 10.
I reached the average.
All these five sevens, five sixes and eights that I've been hearing about is not true.
Five 10. I reached the average.
And if I straighten up my back, I can even get more.
Apart from that, I feel like I'm a good person.
So, hopefully my height doesn't stifle anything.
[laughs] [boom] All right, that's it guys.
Obviously, I'm so shocked to hear that you guys are so intrigued by me.
And I'm thankful for your continuous support.
Anyway, next time.
Wired.
[upbeat musics] Melissa McCarthy & Kristen Bell Answer The Web’s Most Searched Questions NASA Astronauts Answer The Web’s Most Searched Questions Common Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Ice Cube Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Eve Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Seth Rogen & Rose Byrne Answer The Web’s Most Searched Questions The Cast of Warcraft Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Slow Mo Guys, MatPat, AsapSCIENCE, and Burnie Burns Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dana Carvey Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Mr. Robot's Carly Chaikin Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Cara Delevingne Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Chelsea Handler Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Blindspot's Jaimie Alexander Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Aniston & Jason Bateman Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kate McKinnon & Vanessa Bayer Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Cast of "Rogue One" Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tracy Morgan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions The Cast of 'Sesame Street' Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Samuel L. Jackson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Lawrence & Chris Pratt Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Reggie Watts Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ryan Reynolds & Jake Gyllenhaal Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Evans Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Morgan Freeman, Michael Caine, and Alan Arkin Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Anne Hathaway & Jason Sudeikis Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Salma Hayek & Eugenio Derbez Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Amy Schumer & Goldie Hawn Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Steve Carell & Kristen Wiig Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Will Ferrell & Amy Poehler Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Al Gore Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions on Climate Change Matthew McConaughey & Idris Elba Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dave Franco, Kumail Nanjiani and Fred Armisen Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Cruise & Doug Liman Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Josh Brolin & Taylor Kitsch Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Matt Damon & Julianne Moore Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Nick Jonas Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Gaten Matarazzo and Joe Keery Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Last Jedi Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions John Cena Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Owen Wilson & Ed Helms Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Will Smith & Joel Edgerton Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Black Panther Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Google Search Team Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bruce Willis Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charlize Theron & David Oyelowo Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions This Is Us Cast Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Alicia Vikander Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Garner Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charlie Day Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jeff Goldblum Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Taraji P. Henson & Tyler Perry Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions John Krasinski Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ansel Elgort & Suki Waterhouse Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Terry Crews Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Shawn Mendes Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Solo Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jodie Foster Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Best of Autocomplete: The Cast of Black Panther, Stranger Things and More Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Robert Pattinson & Mia Wasikowska Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Alison Brie & Marc Maron Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions 'Sorry to Bother You' Cast Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions 'Ant-Man and the Wasp' Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Will Arnett Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Mila Kunis & Justin Theroux Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ewan McGregor & Hayley Atwell Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Liza Koshy Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions 'Dog Days' Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ken Jeong Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Mark Wahlberg, Ronda Rousey and Lauren Cohan Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions John Cho Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Rami Malek & Charlie Hunnam Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Anna Kendrick & Blake Lively Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Paul McCartney Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Keegan-Michael Key & Olivia Munn Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Elizabeth Olsen Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Hart & Tiffany Haddish Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Rhett & Link Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Riverdale Cast Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bella Thorne Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John Mulaney & Nick Kroll Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Aubrey Plaza & Craig Robinson Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Try Guys Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Keira Knightley & Mackenzie Foy Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Julia Roberts & Dermot Mulroney Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Emily Ratajkowski & Aaron Paul Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Sarah Silverman & John C. Reilly Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Margot Robbie & Saoirse Ronan Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Natalie Portman & Jude Law Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Lin-Manuel Miranda Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Best WIRED Autocomplete Moments of 2018 Feat. Liza Koshy, David Dobrik, The Try Guys & More Ninja Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zedd Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bryce Dallas Howard Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions James McAvoy & Sarah Paulson Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jane Fonda & Lily Tomlin Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Daniel Radcliffe Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Priyanka Chopra, Rebel Wilson & Adam Devine Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions David Dobrik Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Brie Larson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Freddie Highmore Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Oscar Isaac & Pedro Pascal Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Markiplier Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Colin Farrell & Danny DeVito Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Queer Eye Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Nikolaj Coster-Waldau Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Gina Rodriguez Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sean Bean Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Anthony Mackie Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lily Collins & Nicholas Hoult Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Wu-Tang Clan Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Wanda Sykes Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charles Melton Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jessica Alba & Gabrielle Union Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jon Hamm & David Tennant Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Thomas Middleditch & O'Shea Jackson Jr. Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Sophie Turner & Jessica Chastain Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Mindy Kaling & Emma Thompson Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Smosh Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Holland, Zendaya & Jacob Batalon Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Millie Bobby Brown, Finn Wolfhard & Noah Schnapp Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Winona Ryder & David Harbour Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Eric Andre Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Machine Gun Kelly Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charlie Puth Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Novak Djokovic Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Anderson Cooper Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jim Gaffigan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Liam Payne Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lilly Singh Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Gwen Stefani Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Dove Cameron Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Smith Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Niall Horan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lele Pons Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Hailee Steinfeld Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Louis Tomlinson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kiernan Shipka & Isabela Merced Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kristen Stewart, Naomi Scott, and Ella Balinska Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jack Black & Awkwafina Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions KJ Apa Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions The Best of Autocomplete 2019: Funniest Moments from Stranger Things, Spider-Man and More Billy Eichner & Cobie Smulders Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Frozen 2 Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jada Pinkett Smith Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zach Galifianakis & Zoe Saldana Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Elijah Wood Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Noah Centineo & Lana Condor Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Lucy Hale Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Patrick Stewart Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Norman Reedus Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Astronaut Chris Hadfield Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Nick Offerman Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Binging with Babish Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jamie Dornan & Shailene Woodley Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ellie Kemper Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Joe Biden Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ricky Gervais Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Alicia Keys Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tony Hawk Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Russell Crowe Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Bacon Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Joey King & Joel Courtney Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kermit & Miss Piggy Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Alessia Cara Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jamie Foxx & Joseph Gordon-Levitt Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Mayim Bialik Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Desus & Mero Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dolly Parton Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ruby Rose Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sonequa Martin-Green Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chelsea Handler Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John C. Reilly & Tim Heidecker Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Joel McHale Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Questlove Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Dua Lipa Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zara Larsson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bob Odenkirk and RZA Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions SpongeBob's Tom Kenny & Bill Fagerbakke Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jackson Wang Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Eric Andre Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions...Again LILHUDDY Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Polo G Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Hank Azaria Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zack Snyder Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions TWICE Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions MONSTA X Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Siri, Alexa and Google Home Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Rich Brian and NIKI Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions B.I Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Never Have I Ever Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions M. Night Shyamalan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Henry Golding Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions BTS Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Emily Blunt & Dwayne Johnson Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Hudson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Outer Banks Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Rita Ora Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Dove Cameron Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions...Again Daniel Radcliffe Answers MORE of the Web's Most Searched Questions Ben Platt & Amandla Stenberg Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Hardy & Andy Serkis Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions On My Block Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Daniel Craig & Lashana Lynch Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions William Shatner Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Madison Beer Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Marshmello Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Amanda Seyfried & Finn Wittrock Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Nina Dobrev Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kit Harington Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kristen Bell & Kirby Howell-Baptiste Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dominic Monaghan & Billy Boyd Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Cowboy Bebop Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions YouTube Search Team Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jack Whitehall Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Andrew Garfield Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sabrina Carpenter Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Simu Liu Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Holland, Zendaya & Jacob Batalon Answer MORE of the Web's Most Searched Questions Eric Nam Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ben Affleck & Lily Rabe Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions ATEEZ Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Seth Rogen Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Owen Wilson Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions David Byrne Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Johnny Knoxville Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Channing Tatum & Sandra Bullock Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Karen Gillan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Leslie Mann & Judd Apatow Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Cole Sprouse Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Nicolas Cage Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions TommyInnit Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Drew Gooden Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Seth MacFarlane Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sadie Sink, Noah Schnapp & Gaten Matarazzo Answer the Web’s Most Searched Questions Taika Waititi Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Maisie Williams Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Jacksepticeye Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Hemsworth Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Guinness World Records Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Russo Brothers Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Keke Palmer Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Marques Brownlee Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Neil Patrick Harris Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Lopez & Leah Remini Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dakota Johnson & Jeff Bridges Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions High School Musical: The Musical: The Series Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Hart & Mark Wahlberg Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Danny DeVito Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lili Reinhart Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John Boyega Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sofía Vergara & Simon Cowell Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Steve-O Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Stray Kids Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Charli & Dixie D'Amelio Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions NCT 127 Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Hasan Minhaj Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Cobra Kai's Ralph Macchio Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Mrwhosetheboss Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chloë Grace Moretz Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Millie Bobby Brown Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jenna Ortega Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Veritasium's Derek Muller Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jason Momoa Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions LaurDIY Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Nigel Ng & Uncle Roger Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Finn Wolfhard & Guillermo del Toro Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ludwig Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John Krasinski & Michael Kelly Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions ITZY Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Danny Gonzalez Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ashton Kutcher Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Paul Rudd & Jonathan Majors Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Outer Banks Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Again Kelly Slater Answers Surfing Questions From Twitter KAROL G Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Penn Badgley Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Pine, Hugh Grant & Michelle Rodriguez Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Willem Dafoe Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions KSI Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bob Odenkirk Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jisoo Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ali Wong & Steven Yeun Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Evans & Ana de Armas Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Airrack Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions ChatGPT Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions James & Sean Gunn Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Mark Hamill Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Shameik Moore, Issa Rae & Hailee Steinfeld Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Segura Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Robert Downey Jr. & Christopher Nolan Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Bear Grylls Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Smosh Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Ice Cube Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Stephen Curry Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions 'Heart of Stone' Cast Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions 'Critical Role' Cast Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Harry Mack Freestyles The Web's Most Searched Questions Olivia Rodrigo Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Pokimane Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions MoistCr1TiKaL Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Dream Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Fanum Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Casey Neistat Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions | WIRED Måneskin Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
