Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Lauren Goode Gear AI-Powered Apps Could Make Us More Creative—or Less Human Andria Lo Save this story Save Save this story Save Application Personal services Text generation Company Microsoft Google Alphabet End User Consumer Sector Consumer services No worries! That’s the bot talking, offering a breezy response to a mildly apologetic email: Your coworker wants to reschedule a meeting? Sure thing! And they’ve proposed a new time? That works! If you’ve opted in to Gmail’s Smart Replies , these exchanges should look familiar. The AI-generated shortcuts at the bottom of an email promise effortless efficiency in exchange for a tiny piece of your digital humanity. But us humans are proving eager to make the trade: More than 10 percent of all replies on Gmail now start with a suggested Smart Reply.
Cool, thanks! The apps we rely on to stay productive at the office are being infused with ever larger helpings of artificial intelligence.
 They’ve been getting smarter for awhile, but recent advances in cloud computing, neural networks, and deep learning have sped things up. “When we first did spam filtering in Gmail 14 years ago, we were using algorithms that were sophisticated at that time. Our AI techniques have changed a lot since then,” says Rajen Sheth, director of product management for Google Cloud AI. “Things like Smart Reply and Smart Compose have really brought this to the forefront.” Google’s Smart Compose is the show-off cousin of Smart Reply. It actually tries to complete phrases for you as you’re typing an email, and it’s uncannily good at predicting what you intend to say next. (“Thanks,” I started to write to a Google spokesperson. “This is really…” “helpful,” Smart Compose suggested.) Other products in G Suite, the company’s assortment of work-related apps, are peppered with assistive features, too. In Docs, the Explore tab uses machine learning to suggest documents, emails, or web links related to the topic you’re currently working on. The mobile version of Calendar lets you create goals, then automatically jams them into your schedule for you. Thanks to AI, you’re no longer sorry-too-swamped to file your travel expenses on time.
Microsoft , eager to shed its image as the stalwart provider of ho-hum desktop software, has been imbuing Office 365 with AI-powered features. Word now knows when you’re making a to-do list and tracks those items as … to-do items. PowerPoint uses computer vision and machine learning to color-match your slides with the hues in imported photos. And thanks to image recognition tech, you can snap a photo of a data table, import it into Excel, and end up with a fully editable table. Clippy was never so skilled.
Microsoft has suggested that the future of AI in the workplace may be one in which your email app can sense, by your tone, that you’re frustrated. But that doesn’t mean the company is hurrying to suggest email etiquette, or plans to ask if you’re really sure you want to hit Send. That’s partly because Microsoft says it wants people to remain the heroes of their work domains, for now. “The bigger part of our responsibility is figuring out how to keep the assistant in a more humble position, providing just a whisper of a recommendation,” says Ronette Lawrence, Microsoft’s AI planning and user research lead.
Related Stories Tech Reboot Lauren Goode How Tuesday Pia Ceres Digital Assistants Klint Finley Tech behemoths aren’t the only ones automating onerous office tasks. Cloud-first newcomers have been helping to establish what work looks like in the age of AI. Bots have become a near-essential part of Slack’s collaborative chat software; every so often a Slackbot will suggest you leave a channel you haven’t visited in awhile. The Seattle-based startup Textio is wielding machine learning to help recruiters and HR managers write more compelling job postings. Thanks to AI, the company has learned that using “AI” in an engineering job post is less effective than it used to be. “Big data”? So five years ago.
Perhaps because of this, Textio cofounder and chief executive Kieran Snyder, a natural language processing expert and former Microsoft product manager, prefers to call Textio an “augmented writing” platform. “There’s been a lot of stuff that’s aimed at making your work look pretty, or collaborate easily, but nothing that made words work better,” she says. Snyder claims the average time to fill an open job role is about 10 days shorter for clients who use “growth mindset” phrases suggested by Textio’s software.
Textio’s larger implications are staring users right in the face, no bot guidance needed: The tech doesn’t just speed up the hiring process, but also diversifies it.
 The software recognizes phrases that tend to attract more women job applicants, and alternately, more men. For one Textio client, the phrase “work independently” has driven a 27 percent higher rate of job applicants who identify as women. Phrases like “ninja” or “rock star” skew more towards male applicants.
The question with AI-driven work tools, then, particularly ones engineered to identify potential biases , is whether they help solve for biases or perpetuate them. The answer is likely both. Plenty of computer scientists have determined that biases in AI algorithms are inevitable; machine learning models will simply adopt their human authors’ own worldviews. Relying on a bot to handle your messaging might seem like it would produce a neutral outcome, but like you the bot has its own baggage. Late last year, Google opted to remove gender-based pronouns from Smart Compose after a company researcher discovered, during a beta test, an email about an investor meeting defaulted to the pronoun “him.” (Google says the live version of Smart Compose never exhibited this bias.) Beyond that, AI-powered work apps raise questions around privacy (you knew your boss had system admin access to your work, but what does your bot know about you?) and the small matter of humanity. What do chats and emails, art forms in their earliest days, look like when we’re all exchanging the same rote AI-penned messages? Will our resumes be indistinguishable from one another? Will our slide decks all look the same? (OK, they already do.) Will WIRED articles drafted in AI-powered writing software all read the same? Microsoft’s Lawrence says she believes the opposite could prove true—that the more boring tasks AI can handle for us, the more free time we humans have to be creative.
Sounds good, thanks.
Lauren Goode (@laurengoode) is a senior writer at WIRED covering consumer tech.
This article appears in the March issue.
Subscribe now.
The AI text generator that's too dangerous to make public Women will dominate—and dismantle— music in 2019 A new tool protects videos from deepfakes and tampering Forget people, Elroy's self-flying drone hauls heavy cargo Glitches reveal Google Books' human scanners 👀 Looking for the latest gadgets? Check out our latest buying guides and best deals all year round 📩 Hungry for even more deep dives on your next favorite topic? Sign up for the Backchannel newsletter Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Senior Writer X Topics magazine-27.03 artificial intelligence Google Microsoft bias privacy Reece Rogers Scott Gilbertson Scott Gilbertson Virginia Heffernan Boone Ashworth Carlton Reid Boone Ashworth Boone Ashworth WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Best Buy coupon: Score $300 off select laptops VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
