Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Peter Rubin Culture Apple TV+ Is Here—But It Has a Long Way to Go Steven Spielberg was one of a handful of big names who showed up at Monday's Apple event to talk about the company's new TV offerings.
Michael Short/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save There are secrets, and then there are terribly kept secrets. Since the middle of 2017, when Apple hired two presidents away from Sony Pictures Television to oversee "video programming," its Hollywood aspirations have fallen in the latter category. Yet despite a steady thrum of news and rumors since then—including a spate of last-minute stories —no one outside the company and its creators has known exactly what the plan is.
Related Stories Apps Lauren Goode Year in Review Brian Raftery Streaming Brian Barrett Did Apple want to build itself into a studio/network hybrid like HBO? Would it emulate Netflix by combining original shows with a library of licensed content? Would its original shows be available alongside live TV, as with Hulu? Or would it be like YouTube TV, offering still more programming for cord-cutters? The answer, as with most things Apple, is a little bit of what other companies have done, packaged up with just enough twists to feel like something new.
At the Steve Jobs Theater in Cupertino this morning, Apple announced an overhaul of its TV services (along with a lot of other services around news , gaming, and finance). As before, it aggregates shows from streaming services and iTunes purchases—but the new overhaul introduces Apple TV Channels, an à la carte structure that lets you subscribe to single premium networks like HBO, Showtime, and CBS All Access. "For some of us," said Peter Stern, Apple's VP of services, "the big bundle is more than we need." Apple being Apple, TV (the app, not the TV) will suggest new shows you might enjoy, and play trailers and access other information, all from inside the app.
But like everything else announced at the event, this service has a premium tier as well. Apple TV+, which launches this fall, will give subscribers access to the many shows the company has been developing. The Apple Originals roster, partially unveiled via an introductory video aired during the event, is full of boldfaced names: Steven Spielberg, J. J. Abrams, M. Night Shyamalan, Ron Howard, Sofia Coppola, Octavia Spencer, Reese Witherspoon, Jennifer Aniston, Damien Chazelle.
Yet while many of those faces showed up in the sizzle reel, they didn't show up in any actual footage from the shows they're making. Spielberg appeared in person to tease the existence of his Amazing Stories reboot, and even reveal a few episode premises, but showed no video evidence of their existence. The same went for Reese Witherspoon and Jennifer Aniston's project The Morning Show , based on Brian Stelter's book of the same name. Jason Momoa and Alfre Woodard's show See ? Same thing. Kumail Nanjiani teased his and Emily Gordon's anthology series Little America , and Abrams and Sara Bareilles plugged their show, Little Voice.
 Big Bird(!) clucked about a new coding-heavy children's show called Helpers.
 And, yes, Oprah Winfrey was on hand herself to describe two documentary projects she's involved with. Plenty of description, but not a single moving image, save for a single teaser that stitched together bite-sized snippets of those shows and more.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg There's also the company's reported insistence that its shows be family-friendly. As The Wall Street Journal and Bloomberg have both reported, Tim Cook himself has pushed back against violence and sex in Apple programming, even canceling a show based on Dr. Dre's life. Add to that the fact that Apple has allegedly rankled creators with its feedback, and you begin to get a sense that applying Apple rules to a non-Apple industry isn't always as easy as convincing record labels to sell songs for 99 cents. When Netflix famously gives its creators unparalleled creative leeway (if not usable viewership metrics ), being seen as a difficult partner could put a crimp in future collaborations.
Then again, this isn't trying to dethrone Netflix or Amazon. As with News+, Apple Arcade, or the newly announced Apple Card, the company is trying to bring more of its users inside the walled garden. It's warm and safe in there, and convenient too—but, most importantly, it's somewhere those other competitors can't tread.
Besides, having access to 1.4 billion screens—that's the number of Apple devices in the market today, though you could knock off a few for Apple Watches—soothes a lot of Hollywood heartburn. "Apple's in a billion pockets, y'all," Winfrey said to the audience. "A billion pockets!" With creators like her attached to the venture, others are sure to follow.
The punishing ecstasy of being a Reddit moderator A tap-to-fly helicopter hints at a flying car future B&Bs and the Haunting of Hacker House How does music affect your brain? Every imaginable way What it's like to expose the data of 230 million people 👀 Looking for the latest gadgets? Check out our latest buying guides and best deals all year round 📩 Hungry for even more deep dives on your next favorite topic? Sign up for the Backchannel newsletter Contributing Editor X Topics apple streaming TV Angela Watercutter Angela Watercutter Angela Watercutter Angela Watercutter Matt Kamen Jennifer M. Wood Jennifer M. Wood Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
