Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Lauren Goode Business ChatGPT Now Has an iPhone App OpenAI’s free ChatGPT app for iPhone is now available on Apple’s App Store in the US.
Illustration: Vnoam3d/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save If you’ve searched for “ChatGPT” in Apple’s App Store since the chatbot launched six months ago, you may have discovered some of the dozens of apps with names like Genie, Genius, and AI Writer claiming to be powered by OpenAI’s technology. Or you might have found Microsoft’s Bing app with the company’s own chatbot inside, powered by OpenAI’s GPT-4 text generator.
 But ChatGPT itself hasn’t had an official iPhone app released by its own developer—until now.
Courtesy of OpenAI; Apple OpenAI’s free ChatGPT app for iOS just hit Apple’s App Store in the US. As with the original web model of the chatbot, the free-to-use version is built on GPT-3.5, and its most capable persona built on GPT-4 is accessible only if you’re paying $20 a month for ChatGPT Plus.
OpenAI says the mobile app syncs your history of chats with its bot across devices and will be expanding to other countries “in the coming weeks.” An Android app is coming “soon.” The biggest change that comes with ChatGPT’s new mobile incarnation is that you can now talk to the chatbot instead of just typing. OpenAI has added its speech recognition system, Whisper, which the company claims reaches “human-level robustness and accuracy” for English. That could give interacting with ChatGPT a different feel and perhaps encourage people to turn to it for ( glitchy ) AI wisdom more often. ChatGPT on iOS will also be limited to phones that can run the iOS 16.1 operating system, which means iPhone 8 or newer hardware models.
But it’s unclear whether ChatGPT will have the same freewheeling personality in the new iOS app as the original form of ChatGPT on OpenAI’s own website, given Apple’s strict content moderation policies in its App Store.
The iPhone maker tells developers that apps should not include “defamatory, discriminatory, or mean-spirited content,” or content that is “offensive, insensitive, upsetting, intended to disgust, or in exceptionally poor taste.” It also prohibits overtly sexual or pornographic material, inflammatory religious content, and “false information and features.” ChatGPT has some limitations built in, but they can be sidestepped, and the chatbot, like other generative AI tools, is widely documented to sometimes present falsehoods and fabrications as fact, a phenomenon known as hallucination.
In March, The Wall Street Journal reported that Apple had rejected an email app’s generative-AI-infused update until the developer gave the app a 17+ restriction, expressing concerns that AI tools could generate inappropriate content for children. In the App Store, OpenAI's ChatGPT app is rated for “12+ years old." OpenAI did not respond to questions about any additional parameters it may have included in its iOS model, though presumably the mobile app met Apple’s requirements in order to be permitted in the App Store. Currently, on the web, ChatGPT declines to generate some problematic content when prompted; it will not, for example, write pornographic short stories or make religious jokes, based on WIRED’s tests, though it will write satire about religious wars. Satire is also a category that’s allowed in Apple’s App Store.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg When asked why OpenAI’s iOS app for ChatGPT is arriving six months after the launch of its ChatGPT web app, spokesperson Kayla Wood says it was part of the company’s ethos of safe AI development. “This goes back to our whole strategy of slowly and safely putting these useful tools out into the world,” she adds.
OpenAI has made clear that its strategy for making AI smarter also involves training algorithms using feedback gained from logs of people using ChatGPT. The bot’s iOS manifestation could provide a valuable new stream of queries, and one with a more conversational tone if the speech recognition function proves popular.
A mobile app could also provide OpenAI with totally new signals, like location data. However, Apple has also limited data collection for third-party apps in recent years, starting with the rollout of iOS 14 and iPadOS 14.5 in 2021. App makers, for example, are now required to ask your permission when they want to track you across apps and services owned by other companies, and iPhone users can choose to limit location-tracking within apps.
Apple’s new controls also mostly block access to a phone’s ad-tracking identifier, throttling some ad-based business models, including Meta’s.
 OpenAI doesn’t run ads against ChatGPT (at least, not yet); it’s either free, premium, or pay-as-you-go, in the case of its image generator DALL-E.
Apple did not respond to an inquiry from WIRED about any content moderation or data-tracking restrictions that might apply specifically to this new category of AI tools, like the ChatGPT iOS app.
ChatGPT’s App Store debut may not be welcomed by the entrepreneurs who cannily launched their own chatbot apps over recent months. The app’s arrival on mobile devices might also help thwart scammers. Earlier this week, security firm Sophos warned that ChatGPT scams are showing up in the Google Play and Apple App Stores.
 Unknowing consumers are lured into downloading “free” apps pretending to offer access to OpenAI’s ChatGPT, only to later get hit with subscription fees for bogus apps. Now, with OpenAI’s app in the mix, it might be easier to avoid low-quality chatbots with names like “Chat GBT.” You Might Also Like … 📩 Get the long view on tech with Steven Levy's Plaintext newsletter Watch this guy work, and you’ll finally understand the TikTok era How Telegram became a terrifying weapon in the Israel-Hamas War Inside Elon Musk’s first election crisis —a day after he “freed” the bird The ultra-efficient farm of the future is in the sky The best pickleball paddles for beginners and pros 🌲 Our Gear team has branched out with a new guide to the best sleeping pads and fresh picks for the best coolers and binoculars Senior Writer X Topics ChatGPT OpenAI Bing chatbots Will Knight Khari Johnson Will Bedingfield Niamh Rowe Khari Johnson Reece Rogers Vittoria Elliott Reece Rogers Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
