Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Medea Giordano Louryn Strampe Gear The Best Cat Toys and Supplies Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Basic Cat Rules Read more Find a Litter Box They Like $85 at Amazon (Plant Litter Box) If You Want an Automatic Box $650 at Smarty Pear (Leo's Loo Too) A Cheaper Way to Monitor Bathroom Habits $200 at Petivity Cats are beautiful, interesting, weird creatures. If you're lucky enough to be loved by one, it's your God-given responsibility to give them a comfortable and fun home. We wrote about the supplies you should get if you recently adopted a pet , but once you have that pet situated at home, you'll want to create a healthy, welcoming space for them. Cats require a specific type of environment to play, scratch, and relax.
Here are our favorite products based on months of testing with our own cats. Even if our pets rejected a particular product, we still examined overall construction, design, and value to determine whether it may be of use to other kitties. Felines can be finicky, so you may have to go through a few options to find the right fit.
Check out our related guides, like the Best Veterinary Telemedicine Services and Our Favorite Fancy Cat Furniture.
 More of a dog person? We've got you covered! See our Best Accessories and Tech Essentials for Your Dog guide.
Updated March 2023: We've added a bunch more cat stuff we like, including Purina's Petivitiy bathroom tracker and the Cat Amazing treat puzzles, as well as the Fur Zapper and Sprinkle & Sweep cleaning accessories. We've also updated prices and links throughout.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get a 1-year subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.
com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Photograph: Martin Poole/Getty Images Basic Cat Rules Dos and Don'ts Don't listen to the cat haters: Cats do form a connection to their human owners. And while they may be more low-maintenance than dogs, they still require thoughtful care. Here are some basic dos and don'ts when it comes to owning a cat.
DO: Separate food and water. Use multiple litter boxes for multiple cats. Give them ways to hunt their food. Ensure they get exercise. Give them places to hide and feel safe. Regularly trim their nails. Give them love and affection! DON'T: Leave them unattended around these toxic plants.
 Accidentally harm them with common essential oils like eucalyptus.
Feed them a vegan diet , milk (yes, really), or these other toxic foods.
 Declaw them.
Photograph: Tuft and Paw Find a Litter Box They Like Litter Box A litter box is essential. What kind you get depends on your cat—not every cat likes enclosed boxes, and others need high sides to shield your walls from urine (sometimes they aim high!). You should have one box per cat, and one on each floor if you live in a multilevel home.
You'll find cheap, standard litter boxes everywhere they sell pet items, but if those don't work, consider these: Rubbermaid storage bins (without the lid) are cheap and work well.
Tuft and Paw's Cove Box is simple but modern with detachable sides and a place to hold its scoop and small dustpan. (All Tuft and Paw products are aesthetically pleasing and pricey.) The Good Pet Stuff Hidden Litter Planter nicely blends into small spaces, but it needs to be replaced more than other boxes as it gets weirdly grimey.
Want to try an automatic litter box ? We have thoughts below.
Can't decide on a box? Kitty Poo Club delivers disposable, recyclable boxes to your door every month. The cardboard has a thin plastic coating inside, so it shouldn't leak, as long as you're actually replacing them.
★ You should also use a litter mat underneath the box to minimize the litter tracked through your house. Just vacuum and shake it out regularly.
$85 at Amazon (Plant Litter Box) $199 at Tuft and Paw (Cove Box with Shelter) Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Smarty Pear If You Want an Automatic Box Self-Cleaning Litter Boxes We Like I (Medea) was unsure about robotic litter boxes—they're big and expensive, and experts warn that not cleaning out a box every day could mean missing potential signs of sickness. But then I tried two that changed my mind: Leo's Loo Too and Whisker's Litter-Robot 4.
Both are still large and expensive, but they connect to apps that keep track of your cat's bathroom habits, alerting you when they use the box and what their weight is. You'll know something is off if their bathroom trips suddenly change, and you can scoop a little less too. Both have sensors and other safety features so it won't spin if a cat is inside. Leo's Loo is the most sensitive, so if you have a particularly curious cat, this might be the one to get. Bigger cats will probably prefer the larger drum of the Litter-Robot.
$650 at Smarty Pear (Leo's Loo Too) $699 at Whisker (Litter Robot 4) Photograph: Purina A Cheaper Way to Monitor Bathroom Habits Petivity Smart Litterbox Monitor System You don't have to spend $700 to know exactly what's happening when Fluffy visits the commode. Purina's Petivity ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ) sits underneath a standard litter box and, once connected to the app, tells you which cat visited the box at what time, how much they weigh, and if they went one or two.
This has made my life much less stressful, because now I know exactly how much Huxley, who has lower urinary tract disease, is urinating. If something is off, I know immediately and can get him to the vet.
$200 at Petivity Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Amazon Keep Litter Odor Undercover Litter Genie For years, I didn't understand the allure of the Litter Genie. Then I moved into an apartment complex where taking out the garbage meant a trip across the parking lot, and I started making excuses to not clean out the box—it was raining or dark, or I had my hair up in a towel and didn’t want to go outside. Finally, I bought one.
As with a Diaper Genie, you scoop clumps into the top compartment and open a hatch that drops it to a bottom compartment, where it holds in the odors for up to two weeks. You can clean every day without daily trips to the trash and without wasting a ton of plastic bags. When you’re ready to empty it, there’s a handy attachment that safely cuts the bag to tie it off and start a new one. You'll have to commit to buying refills , though. There's also an XL version if you have multiple cats.
$20 at Target $21 at Chewy Photograph: Wayfair … Or Out of Sight Entirely Archie & Oscar Rena Litter Box Enclosure Litter box placement is hard. You need a low-foot-traffic area, away from your cat's food and water, and preferably a space where a stray odor won't ruin the mood. Most people don't want to relinquish closet space or a bedroom to a litter box. I (Louryn) tested and loved this litter box enclosure. It conceals my cat's litter boxes from both eyes and noses, and it gives my kitties privacy. The neutral colors work well in most rooms, and you can also paint it. My cats took to it right away and seem to be as relieved as I am that we can't see one another while they do their business.
The enclosure looks like a small credenza or freestanding cupboard. I don't think you could guess it housed litter if you didn't know. I sprinkle this deodorizer on the litter, but the enclosure does a good job at trapping odors on its own. This is my favorite piece of cat gear I've ever tried, and it's often on sale.
$110 at Wayfair Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Cat Person Get Better Bowls … Glass and Stainless Steel Food and Water Bowls When it comes to materials, most vets and cat experts will tell you to use stainless steel or glass bowls for your pet's food and water. Plastic can get dingy and dirty fast, and it holds onto bacteria. This can result in what's called cat acne.
Cat Person's Mesa Bowl gives a modern take to perfect-posture eating. It's made of polycarbonate, and every part is dishwasher safe (and Cat Person packaging turns into cardboard cat houses).
Owala's stainless steel pet bowl is cute and doesn't slide around, but basic stainless steel bowls are simple and inexpensive.
Elevated feeders are a good option, as they can help your cat's neck.
WIRED editor Adrienne So likes the (expensive!) Yeti Boomer Dog Bowl for her pooch. It's great if you have an animal that likes tipping bowls over.
$10 at Amazon (Stainless) $40 at Cat Person (Mesa Bowl) Photograph: Amazon … Or Slow Their Rolls Caflower Slow Feeder Lick Mat My neighborhood has an affectionate real-life squishmallow of an outdoor cat named Stokely. We call him a walking black hole due to his gravitational force (he weighs over 20 pounds). He’s the sweetest, biggest gravy boat imaginable, but it's tough not to feel like an enabler when he comes around asking for dinner. This slow feeder has helped curb his habits—maybe not his appetite, which is a runaway train with no conductor—but the mat definitely slows him down. The included spatula means you don’t have to get mystery gravy on your human utensils, and the suction cups keep it stuck firmly to the floor. The mats are easy to clean. The suction cups might stick to your kitchen counter if you load the mat there, so I find it best to place the mat in the cats’ feeding area before mashing the food in. I fully believe that if this worked for Stokely, it'll work for any cat.
Some reviews mention that particularly toothsome cats might chew on the mats to the point of degrading them. While I have not experienced this, it's always smart to supervise your pet while they're eating.
$15 at Amazon Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Catit Try a Water Fountain Catit Water Fountain Cats don't feel the need to drink water the way humans do. So if they're unhappy with their water situation, it could lead to dehydration and other serious issues like bladder stones and urethral blockages—some cats don't like their water right next to their food, which is why it's recommended to keep them separate. Male cats are especially prone to these issues. Feeding them wet food helps with their water intake, but we wanted a more enticing way for our cats to drink water. Some cats prefer drinking from fountains (or, as many cat owners have experienced, from the bathroom faucet ).
If you get a fountain, you'll need to have an outlet nearby, and you'll need to change the filter about every month, but it's worth it if your cat uses it. We tried Catit's plastic flower fountain and its stainless-steel-topped fountain.
 While stainless steel bowls are preferred, the plastic should be OK as long as you keep it clean. See below for a smart option.
$37 at Amazon (Steel Top) $28 at Amazon (Flower top) Photograph: Catit Or a Smart Fountain and Feeder Catit Pixi Smart Fountain and Feeder Catit’s Pixi series offers a smart fountain and feeder controlled via the Pixi app (available on iOS and Android ). The fountain's pump has a small LED that shines through the clear cat nose on the front, turning red when the water is low and blue if UV-C sterilization is on. It blinks blue when the filter needs to be changed, and the app will also alert you.
You can use the app to either pour food remotely or on a daily schedule. You can also press the cat nose to pour, or disable it if your pets figure it out. The app will tell you when the reservoir is ready for a refill. Plus, it includes a spot for backup batteries in case the power goes out while you're away.
★ Another Smart Water Bowl: Sure Petcare Felaqua Connect ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ) is another great water bowl that tells you when, and how much, each cat drinks that's to its microchip sensor.
$135 at Catit (Feeder) $130 at Amazon (Fountain) $135 at Catit (Fountain) Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Chewy Let Them Scratch Scratching Posts Cats need to scratch, and if you want to prevent them from ripping up furniture, you must provide them with ample scratching posts. Declawing is not the answer—it's like removing your fingers at the last knuckles and can lead to a ton of problems.
There's a wide spectrum to choose from, and these are some of our favorites: A simple cardboard slat costs just a few bucks or level up to the Boots and Barkley tunnel.
My cats really like the Wave Scratcher from the same brand, made of sisal and carpet.
PetFusion lounges are a long-lasting, but pricey favorite. They're sturdy, look nice, and once the top has been thoroughly destroyed, you turn it over for a brand-new surface.
Target's adorable house cat scratchers are loved by both of our cats—you can get one for every season, holiday, or theme.
This cat scratcher (also from Target) has refills available online and in-store, and works as a toy too with its attached ping pong ball. There’s nothing cuter than a cat playing soccer with a ball they’ll never be able to free.
★ Don't forget to trim their nails: You should also regularly trim your cat's nails.
(It's easier than it sounds, but it might be a two-person job.) Ask your vet to show you where to trim to so you don't cut their quick (the part of the nail that holds the nerves and blood vessels). There are also helpful guides online.
$51 at Amazon (Lounge) $15 at Target (Wave) $20 at Target (Tunnel) Photograph: Catit Give Them a Place to Climb Cat Trees Cats like to jump and climb whatever they can, so a nice cat tree should help keep them occupied and off your mantle or breakable glassware. Cat trees are made from materials that can be scratched up, and some include separate scratching posts. If you aren't worried about aesthetics, you'll find plenty of good cat trees at pet stores, as well as places like Home Goods or the like.
Catit's Vesper line has a nice modern feel that's hard to find in moderately priced cat furniture. The Small Vesper Box doesn't take up too much space, but it's the perfect height to get my cats right at window level. They can nap in the covered bottom level, scratch and play on the second level, and sit on the soft fluffy pillow on top for bird watching. It was really easy to put together, and the cloth pillows and pads are machine washable.
The Vesper High Base is a taller option, great for multi-cat homes or for pets that don't necessarily like to lounge together.
 The Vesper line includes many other sizes and colors.
$70 at Catit $170 at Catit Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Whisker And a Stylish Place to Rest More Modern Cat Furniture When you live in a small apartment, everything you decorate with matters because it's all on display—nothing really gets hidden when you only have one to three rooms. So some of us want our cat's furniture to match too.
We have a full guide on the fanciest cat furniture we've tried , but be prepared to shell out some serious cash. These are two of our favorites: Whisker's Cat Silo (this is the brand that makes the Litter-Robot) looks nice enough to be an end table, but it has sisal mats for them to stick their claws into and a thick pad so they can relax inside. The gold legs are a nice touch too.
Tuft and Paw's Happy Camper Cat Bed is extremely cute, and I get happy every time I see my cat peacefully asleep on its furry interior bed. You can put it together with the felt on the outside or inside, whatever your decor and cats prefer. This brand is more expensive, but everything we've seen so far is nicely crafted.
$199 at Whisker (Cat Silo) $249 at Tuft and Paw (Happy Camper Bed) Photograph: Amazon Keep an Eye on Them Petcube Play 2 Camera The ability to sneak a peek at your cat when you're out offers nervous pet owners (most of us) some peace of mind. We have a whole pet camera guide , but Petcube's Play 2 Camera is designed specifically for cats, with an app-controlled laser. The wide-angle camera records in 1080p and has two-way audio. It's also compatible with Alexa, so you could ask Amazon's voice assistant to play with your pet if you're busy.
★ Another pet camera we like: We've been using Eufy's dog camera.
 Despite the name, it works just as well for cats. It doesn't have a laser, but it does launch treats, and it can pan around the room.
★ Standard cameras work too: A simple security camera works just as well and they're usually cheaper.
Cync's indoor camera is a favorite and you can slide it up to cover the lens when you don't want it watching, and Nooie's Cam 360 can pan to follow your cats throughout the room.
$199 at Amazon $199 at Chewy $199 at Petcube Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Enabot Give Them a Robot Bestie Ebo Pro I (Medea) tried two robot cat pals, the Ebo Pro and Rocki.
 My cat Huxley loved them both, while Eely-Rue couldn't be bothered with either. The Ebo Pro was expensive but took the win. If I even bump Ebo and it makes a noise, Huxley will come running from wherever he is in the house. (The brand has newer models too, the Ebo Air and SE.
) Both are equipped with cameras and microphones and are designed to be controlled by you from home or away. That way you can play with your cats if you can't be home cuddling. The Rocki is larger and has a treat dispenser, but it can't run on its own and had a bit more glitches in its app.
$299 at Enabot Photograph: Basepaws Get Their DNA and Health Info Basepaws Breed + Health Cat DNA Test Basepaws is thorough.
 After swabbing our cats' cheeks and sending the samples back in the included envelope, we received PDFs of nearly 70 pages detailing their breed percentages—as well as several pages about all the cat breeds, and how our babies stacked up against around 115 feline health markers.
The test tells you if your cat is clear, a carrier, at risk, or at high risk of numerous metabolic, cardiovascular, eye, blood, endocrine, renal, autoimmune, skin, musculoskeletal, and connective tissue disorders, as well as blood type, transfusion risk, and other traits. Then there's also all the dental info—I found out my cat Eely was at risk of periodontal disease and the vet confirmed her gums were inflamed, so we scheduled a cleaning.
Any cat can develop a sickness or dental problems, but having a baseline can alleviate anxieties and also empower you to work with your vet to make the best life choices for your cat.
$159 at Basepaws $159 at Amazon Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Amazon Keep Calm and Kitty On Scientia Pet Bserene Pheromone + Catnip Calming Solution Cat anxiety can manifest as fighting, obsessive grooming, overeating, or our least favorite: peeing in places they shouldn't. When cats are happy and calm, they rub their cheeks on things, depositing pheromones that mark something as safe and familiar. Pheromone sprays imitate those cheeky chemicals, convincing your cat that an area or situation is A-OK.
I (Louryn) have tried other pheromone diffusers and sprays; sometimes they work, but they often reek.
I don't recommend Feliway nor Scientia Pet's smelly diffuser, but this spray smells better and works faster than others that I've tried. It's infused with catnip, making it smell more herbal and vegetal than the artificial hairspray vibes I got from similar products. You spritz the problem area, like a pet carrier before a vet visit, and wait 15 minutes before reintroducing your animals to that location. I could tell it was working almost immediately. Instead of terrorizing both one another and myself, my cats sniffed around and took a nap. Calmer days are possible! $35 at Amazon $35 at Scientia Pet Photograph: Medea Giordano A Perch for Window Gazing K&H Kitty Sill Cat Window Perch These window seats are a great way for cats to bask in the sun and keep a watchful eye on the neighborhood while safely indoors. They're easy to install too, with sticky strips that attach to your window sill and can hold up to 40 pounds. You can also nail the base into the window frame, and there are even heated seats for super-spoiled kitties. The covers are removable and can be machine washed.
You'll need a window sill at least 2 inches deep to properly support it. If you don't have that, see the next blurb on suction-cup seats.
$30 at Chewy $30 at Amazon Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Amazon A Suction-Cup Seat Kitty Cot Cat Perch With Suction Cups I (Medea) was scared to try perches that attach with suction cups, out of fear they may just suddenly fall, but after some searching, I found the Kitty Cot perches. They stick extremely well—Huxley's 13-pound belly didn't budge it.
The seat part is made of tough nylon that should outlast even the sharpest claws. Kitty Cots come in a few sizes, as well as a deluxe version that can be maneuvered to sit flush against the window. That way, you can close your blinds without removing the bed. The company also has mats for the perches, but they've been unavailable lately, and your cat may prefer a blanket or bed that they already like on top anyway.
$45 at Chewy $45 at Amazon Photograph: Meowbox Consider a Subscription Box for Toys Meowbox Cats need toys to keep them stimulated and entertained. Unfortunately, there isn't one toy that every cat will love. Some will play with any toy you bring home, others will prefer strings that fall off your clothes and the box that the expensive toy came in. You can go to a pet store and pick up a bunch of things to see what they like—most will probably find some enjoyment out of ball they can push around or crinkly catnip toys—or you can try a subscription box. I've used a few, and Meowbox is my favorite.
You can choose to get deliveries every one or two months, and they'll include incredibly cute toys following an equally cute theme, plus treats. Getting a few different toys will show you which your cat prefers, and then you can continue getting boxes or cancel without hassle once you're sufficiently stocked up.
Plus, for every box sold, the company gives food to a shelter. You can see exactly where on its website.
$24 at Meowbox Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Cat Amazing A Toy to Hone Their Hunting Skills Cat Amazing Sliders Puzzle Feeder If you have a cat, you know they typically want whatever piece of trash they find rather than a nice toy you've actually spent money on. I have to say, though, these Cat Amazing puzzle toys have been well received by my cats, and the toys keep them sharp by activating their hunting skills and making them use their brains.
The brand has a few sizes, but they're all made of cardboard and easy to put together. Just add their favorite treats.
$26 at Amazon $26 at Chewy Photograph: Amazon Extra Window Protection Extra Window Screens Because my cats like to be up at the window sleeping or chirping at birds, I always use extra screens as a reinforcement. If they roll over and lean all their weight against the open window, or jump at a squirrel, they won't push the screen out of its track and go flying out the window. Check your local Home Depot or Lowe's, as they tend to be quite cheap there.
$12 at Amazon $5 at Home Depot Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Amazon Keep Your Carpets Clean Bissell Pet Stain Eraser PowerBrush Cats puke and cough up hairballs, usually on whatever carpeted surface they can find. They'll also occasionally get a little piece of poop stuck to their fluffy butt hair and drag it across the room in a desperate attempt to flee its grips (or maybe that's just my cat). A good carpet cleaner will be a lifesaver. We have a guide with several options , but I particularly like the Bissell Pet Stain Erase PowerBrush.
I used to use a Hoover cleaner , but this specific Bissell is so much easier to use and clean when you're done. It's small and light but powerful, cleaning even day-old stains, and there are no long hoses or tiny little parts for debris to get stuck in—any part that's going to get grimy from what you're cleaning can be rinsed out easily. It's portable too, so as long as it's charged you can walk around cleaning every surface imaginable without being tethered to an outlet. I don't audibly groan when I spot a pile of puke anymore, and that's a big deal.
We also like Bissell's Little Green Cleaner.
$134 at Amazon $134 at Target Photograph: Amazon And Clean Your Hardwood Floors Ecovacs Deebot Ozmo T5 Despite my best efforts, my kitties track litter everywhere their toe beans travel. Like magic, they also dust up fluffy fur tumbleweeds that drift across my hardwood floors. I have to sweep or vacuum at least once a day. This robot vacuum/mop combo has been a time saver. It's easy to use, and when the dust bin gets full, it's easy to empty and clean as well. I lovingly named it Bonk, and my cats have accepted it as their new sibling. Bonk is smart enough to use more suction over the litter mat, use his weird little arms to get into every corner, and alert me in an almost uncanny human voice when his brush is tangled. The companion app is pretty user-friendly and allows me to schedule cleanings or check on Bonk's whereabouts with just a tap or two.
The T5 is expensive, and it isn't on our list of the best robovacs (though we like a few products from Ecovacs). However, what makes it cool aren't really its individual features. Any good robot vacuum will offer users a similar sense of satisfaction. Having a helper corral random whiskers, litter dust, and fluffs has made a big difference in my daily to-do list.
$179 at Amazon Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Roverlund Hit the Road Roverlund Pet Carrier [INT: LOURYN'S LIVING ROOM, PRE-ROVERLUND CARRIER] LOURYN: Come on, kitty. You sit in every other container. Why won't you get in this one? HER CAT, PROBABLY: Your motives are suspicious. You want me to do the thing, therefore I cannot possibly do the thing.
LOURYN: It's got your blanket! And treats! And pheromone spray! And toys! And my love! HER CAT, PROBABLY: I hate blankets. I hate treats. I hate your love. Please understand that this is a personal attack. Call the vet and inform them we will be running 12 to 24 years late.
[END SCENE] Roverlund's carrier is the only one I've used that my cats will (sort of) tolerate. I feel better not cramming them against hard plastic or squinting through tiny holes in order to see them. They feel better with all-encompassing ventilation and a fully unzipping top instead of a claustrophobic cage opening. It's a win-win situation that has drastically shortened the standoffs between me, my cats, and a looming vet appointment. (We also recommend this carrier in our dog gear buying guide ; it's a WIRED Gear team fave.) ★ Another Carrier We Like: Medea just started using the Diggs Passenger Carrier and is impressed by its craftsmanship and safety features, including seat belt clips and a buckle strap. There's also a million pockets and the interior bed easily fits a pee pad over it if your pal is prone to accidents (it comes with one pad for you to try).
$159 at Amazon $159 at Roverlund Photograph: Lucky Pet (Safely!) LuckyPet Break-Away Cat Collar Unfortunately, I (Louryn) can speak firsthand to the devastation that comes with having a pet go missing. There are a few things you can do to prevent it.
Step one is to get your pets microchipped.
 Step two is to make sure they’re wearing a collar with identification. ID tags are widely available, but ideally the one you go with will be reflective and legible. Whether to list your cat’s name is a personal choice, but the ID should definitely include your phone number.
I ordered this collar for my cat after her brother went on an extended vacation without my permission. The clasp breaks away so the collar won’t cause injury if it gets snagged. It has held up well over time, and it doesn't bother my easily ruffled fur baby. If it bothers yours, there are plenty of others, some of them high-tech (which I've yet to try). No matter which option you choose, make sure that it's from a trusted brand. The collar should be durable, highly visible, and lightweight, with a breakaway clasp.
$9 at LuckyPet Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Chewy You May Want to Try Chewy Chewy Chewy is a big retailer now, but we're still fans. The company offers nearly any pet brand you're used to, with easy-to-manage auto-ship orders (usually at a slight discount), so you don't have to worry about running out of food and litter. Plus, it's nice to have that heavy stuff delivered right to your door.
Shipping is fast, and the customer service is good, in our experience. They answer questions quickly and efficiently and will replace any damaged items, no questions asked. I (Medea) received a busted litter package once, and Chewy sent a new box the next day. Every order since then has been more sufficiently packaged to avoid spills. Plus, if you include information on your pets in your account you'll get birthday cards and potentially even hand-painted portraits.
 Chewy has also rolled out a televet service.
Buy at Chewy Photograph: Sabina Torres/Getty Images More Cat Supplies We Like More Cat Products Steps for $35 : These cardboard steps were easy to put together and are surprisingly sturdy. Plus, there's a little opening on the sides so they can play underneath.
Air Purifier for $152 : Air purifiers help tremendously if you're dealing with a stuffed-up nose from cat dander and fur, especially if you have carpets. We have a full air purifier guide , too, with many more options.
Chom Chom Hair Remover for $30 : My cats are arguably too fluffy. This tool makes it easy to de-fur my sofa, ottoman, shoes, and any other surface that gets covered in their hair. I use it every single day. It doesn't fill up too quickly, and emptying it out takes all of three seconds. It works efficiently and doesn't take too many passes to de-fur my entire couch.
Litter Attractant for $12 : If your kitties are having litterbox issues, sprinkle a bit of this after cleaning out the cat box. It'll help them do their business in the designated spot. It's also helpful for after a move.
Find a good brush: We use the Pet Neat Grooming Brush that is no longer available. It's a good duper for the pricier Furminator.
 But there are plenty of brush options anywhere they sell pet items.
Catnip Spray for $10 : Most cats love catnip. Ours have responded well to Pet Craft Supply Co's ($12) and Yeowww ($6) , but I really like this spray for days when I don't want to get flakes all over.
Cat Person toys: In addition to the Mesa Bowl we mention earlier, Cat Person makes other good products, like these cute catnip toys ($7).
 Louryn's cats loved the wet food ($10) , and even though they're not wholly necessary, we're fana of these tiny spoons for scooping out gravy ($12).
 Bonus: The packaging turns into cardboard cat houses.
Sprinkle & Sweep Messy Pet Accident Cleanup Aid ($25) : This powder makes cleanups slightly less disgusting (as long as they're puking on hard surfaces). You need a bit more than the package suggests, but once the mess is covered, you can sweep it up. The fragrance can be a little overwhelming, but it doesn't last, and it's certainly better than the smell of feline bodily fluids.
Fur Zapper ($12) : Unless your pet is hairless, their fur is likely everywhere all the time. The silicone Fur Zapper is naturally sticky, so hair clings to it in the laundry. Throw these in the washer and dryer, then just rinse 'em off and use them again.
Writer and Reviewer X Writer and Reviewer X Topics Shopping cats pets buying guides Adrienne So Adrienne So Brenda Stolyar Simon Hill Julian Chokkattu Eric Ravenscraft Jaina Grey Julian Chokkattu WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
