Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Simon Hill Medea Giordano Gear The Best Carpet Cleaners to Resurrect Your Rugs Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Best Overall $279 at Amazon An Expensive Upgrade $499 at Amazon Best for Stubborn Stains $492 at Amazon Best Spot Cleaner $134 at Amazon Over time, tramping feet, molting pets, and spilled drinks can take a heavy toll on our hard-working carpets. That pristine pile loses its shine and bounce, fibers get tangled with hair, and stains settle in for the long haul. Surface crumbs and dust might get sucked up regularly by your vacuum, but there’s only so much it can do. For a deep clean that will wet-wash your rugs to lift ingrained dirt and lingering odors, you need a carpet cleaner.
We tested a range of carpet cleaners in busy households with aging carpets that have seen some serious action. These are our picks of the best carpet cleaners in different categories. You'll also find recommended mops and vacs for hard floors. And there's advice on what to consider when buying a carpet cleaner, and how to get the most out of it. For more cleaning recommendations, check out our other guides, like the Best Robot Vacuums , Best Cordless Vacuums , Best Handheld Vacuums , Best Dyson Vacuums , and Best Eco-Friendly Cleaning Products.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get a 1-year subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Updated August 2023: We added the Tineco Carpet One Pro, the Bissell Little Green Cleaner, and the Bissell Revolution HydroSteam. We also updated prices and links throughout.
Photograph: Bissell Best Overall Bissell ProHeat 2X Revolution Pet Pro This Bissell looks like a normal upright vacuum cleaner, but it packs plenty of carpet cleaning power. I was pleased with the results; my whole house felt renewed. It removed plenty of cat hair and eliminated lingering odors. It's easy to use, with the two removable tanks—fill the top tank to the marked lines with warm water and detergent, pull a trigger on the handle to wet wash, and then run over the area slowly and watch the bottom tank fill with dirty water. A special spray jet, triggered by a pedal, can target stains. There are three modes (Max, Deep, and Express) and lots of attachments. The upholstery attachment was very effective on an old armchair, and the stair-cleaning tool works well too. There’s even a handy tool for cleaning the cleaner when you’re done, though this is a fiddly job.
On the downside, the ProHeat 2X Revolution Pet Pro is very loud (like a jet taking off). Some older stains remained, even after multiple runs. A toothpaste stain on the upstairs landing initially disappeared but gradually returned, and an old red wine stain in the living room refused to budge. Also, it's maneuverable for a carpet cleaner, but it's still heavy to lift, and don't expect it to slide under low furniture. It needs storage space similar to an upright vacuum, and you only get a drawstring bag to store all the attachments.
A Steam Cleaner From Bissell: I never used a steam cleaner before, but was impressed by how well the Bissell Revolution HydroSteam Pet cleaned up forgotten stains on my rugs. It's big, about the size of the ProHeat, so you need somewhere to store it. It's priced at $400, but is often much cheaper.
$279 at Amazon $259 at Walmart Photograph: Tineco An Expensive Upgrade Tineco Carpet One Pro If a carpet cleaner can be said to be fun , the Tineco Carpet One Pro is. It's almost 30 pounds, but the clever design leaves the dirty water tank on the ground while the handle hinges back, so I (a small woman) found it fairly lightweight and easy to maneuver. Both the clean and dirty water tanks are easy to pop in and out and have carrying handles, so they're easy to rinse out.
A big LED screen (and voice) tells you whether you're toggling in between Auto, Max, or Drying modes. A few passes with Max lifted several years' worth of grime out of a white carpet that I had left criminally unattended. Drying mode blows 167-degree hot air at the carpet and shows you the percentage of dryness. It's not perfect, but I was able to clean my carpets before I left to pick my children up from camp, and the carpets were fluffy and fully playable when we came back three hours later. It also comes with a cleaning accessory for upholstery, extra cleaning solution, and tools to clean the tools. It also takes up the same amount of space as our Dyson Animal Ball vacuum. Overall it did an amazing job for the weight, but my husband did point out a stubborn small stain or two that it left behind. If you need a heavier-duty washer, read on.
—Adrienne So $499 at Amazon Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Photograph: Rug Doctor Best for Stubborn Stains Rug Doctor Mighty Pro X3 When you absolutely, positively must clean every carpet in the house, accept no substitutes: The Rug Doctor Mighty Pro X3 is as good a clean as you’ll get without hiring professionals. I've rented this beast a few times, and it has never failed to impress, leaving carpets clean, fluffed up, and relatively dry. It has a huge water tank, so there’s less emptying and filling required. It’s also straightforward to use—you roll it forward and then pull back very slowly, pressing the red button to wet-wash and then going over the same line to suck up the dirty water. If you take your time and do overlapping lines, the results are the best we’ve seen, and the suction is strong enough to pick up clumps and leave the carpet relatively dry.
Spending $600 on a carpet cleaner won’t make sense for most people, but Rug Doctor offers rentals starting at $35 for 24 hours with this machine. The cons are similar to our top pick and true of most carpet cleaners. First, this heavy machine can be awkward to maneuver and tough to lift. It is very loud, so protect your ears. It has a relatively narrow cleaning line and is only effective if you go very slowly, so it can take a while to clean a whole room. This model doesn’t offer quick-clean modes or have any attachments in the box, though you can buy a Hand Tool ($100) separately. You will also need considerable storage space if you're not renting it.
$492 at Amazon $597 at Walmart Buy at Rug Doctor (Rent) Buy at Rug Doctor (Hire) Photograph: Amazon Best Spot Cleaner Bissell Pet Stain Eraser PowerBrush I don't always want to lug around a big carpet cleaner when my cats inevitably puke on the rug. Bissell's compact Pet Stain Eraser PowerBrush has been a lifesaver for this. It takes stains out of the carpet without much effort on your part, even ones that have been marinating for a day or two. It's cordless, so you can clean every spot in the house without being tethered to an outlet. (I've only had to charge it twice in four months.) I also really like that it's easy to clean; many of the pieces can be taken off and rinsed under a faucet. There's no pukey grime clogging up hoses like with other spot cleaners I've tried. It comes with two brushes—the Rotating DirtLifter is the standout for carpets, while the Stationary Pet Tool may work better on furniture.
$134 at Amazon $134 at Target Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Photograph: Hoover A Budget Cleaner Hoover PowerDash Pet Compact Carpet Cleaner This Hoover PowerDash reminded me of a toy vacuum in the best way. It's light and easily maneuverable, which is a relief compared to a lot of bulky cleaners out there. You can usually find it for around $90 too. (Even at its full price of $120, it's cheaper than others we tried.) Like the others on this list, this one has a dirty-water tank at the bottom and a clean-water and solution tank at the top. Both are easy to remove and clean. The handle has a solution trigger, which was oddly satisfying to use, for accurately spraying stains first. You probably don't want to deep-clean an old, neglected house with this one, but for bedrooms, area rugs, or cleaning up pet messes or food spills, this should get stains out quickly. One thing I don't love about Hoovers is that the actual nozzle openings tend to be quite thin—I found this to be the case with the larger vacuum-style models and the spot cleaners I've tried. With any cleaner, you shouldn't expect it to pick up large chunks of … blown chunks (sorry), but I find even little pieces of hair or food got clogged in there.
$120 at Target $120 at Amazon Photograph: Bissell A Viral Favorite Bissell Little Green Portable Carpet Cleaner If you've landed on the cleaning side of TikTok , you've probably seen people cleaning their carpets and furniture with this Little Green machine.
This and the Pet Stain Eraser (also from Bissell) that we like opens up the world of upholstery cleaning too, not just carpets. It worked well and it's easier to store and tote around your house than our top pick. But use the included hose-cleaning tool frequently. These hoses can get nasty.
$123 at Amazon $99 at Walmart Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Photograph: Shark Best for Hard Floors Shark S5003D Genius Steam Mop Some carpet cleaners, such as our top pick, can be used on certain hard floors, but I recommend going for a steam mop like this one instead. This Shark Steam Mop is great for cleaning hardwood, tiles, or laminate flooring (not carpets). Simply fill the water tank, plug it in, and attach one of the mop pads. It has three heat levels, and you press down to release a jet of steam for stubborn stains. There’s no need for any detergent, it’s light and maneuverable, and it doesn’t require much space. The clever pad design enables you to flip it over when one side is soiled, and the mechanism makes it easy to attach, with a button to detach the dirty pad, which is machine washable. (You get two pads in the box.) I regularly use this mop to clean laminate, composite, and tile floors, but you must be careful using steam, especially on wood or vinyl flooring. Test it on the lowest heat setting before going over the whole floor. There are no special attachments or extras here, and it’s only suitable for use on hard floors. You also need to empty any remaining water if you don’t plan on using it for a while, or the tank can go nasty.
★ An alternative : The Shark is great because it's affordable, but if your budget can stretch, the Karcher SC 3 ($230) is better if you want attachments and the option to steam-clean harder-to-reach surfaces and your hard floors. It’s good for complete kitchen or bathroom cleaning without the need for any detergent or other products. It's effective for cleaning glass and mirrors too. It only comes with one microfiber cover, and it’s not recommended for use on fabrics or carpets.
$130 at Home Depot $100 at Kohls Photograph: Proscenic Upgrade for Hard Floors Proscenic WashVac F20 If you don’t mind spending big to bring the gleam back to your hard floors, this cordless wet vacuum and mop makes light work of the job. Fill the rear container with water and Proscenic’s cleaning solution (you get a bottle that’s enough for 50 washes), and go to work on laminate, wood, tiles, or any other hard floor surface. (It does not do rugs.) The Proscenic F20 is light, easy to maneuver, and kinda pulls you along as the roller spins. A full charge proved enough to do all my hard floors twice over, and the result was shiny.
What I love about this vac is that it effectively cleans up dry or wet spills, so whether you are cleaning cat litter or a dropped bowl of cereal, it performs. It’s best for cleaning recent spills, but it can also shift stubborn stains with the Max mode and repeated passes. Even better, when you finish, you can stick it on the charging cradle and trigger the self-cleaning program, which sterilizes the soft roller and dries it (though it takes a long time). No one really wants to install an app or create an account just to use a vacuum, but it does make it easier to choose modes, and it displays a wealth of useless cleaning stats.
$399 at Proscenic Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Photograph: Hoover Another Cleaner We Like Hoover SmartWash Automatic Carpet Cleaner Hoover's SmartWash Pet Carpet Cleaner is a bit more capable than the PowerDash for bigger messes. It's bulkier, but it has automatic cleaning and drying cycles—pushing it forward releases the solution and pulling it back starts the drying process. After you've gone over the whole area, you can turn just the drying mode on for an extra pass if the carpet needs it.
It also has some extras. The handle comes out with the click of a button, and you can use its separate tank with a cleaning solution to spot-treat before vacuuming. A hose and separate antimicrobial pet tool can clean stairs or any other hard-to-reach areas that need extra elbow grease. Some customer reviews say it worked well for a few months but then shorted out. We'll keep trying it to see if we run into that issue.
$250 at Amazon $199 at Walmart Photograph: BanksPhotos/Getty Images Things to Consider How to Choose and Use a Carpet Cleaner There is a lot to think about when shopping for or using a carpet cleaner, such as how much space you'll need for storage and whether you should rent or buy. Here are some tips to keep in mind.
Carpet cleaners are heavy and bulky , especially when filled with water. They can be harder to maneuver than regular upright vacuums. They will also need quite a bit of storage space.
Tackle stain-causing spills immediately.
 Most households only need to wash carpets once every six months to a year, but spot cleaners are ideal for treating immediate spills, plus they're easier to store and use.
You likely won't use a carpet cleaner often , so it's OK to consider hiring professionals to do your whole home, especially if you have limited storage space. (It also can depend on how dirty and stained your carpets are.) Look at options for renting a machine from local businesses or retail stores like Home Depot. You'll be able to get the benefits of a commercial-grade cleaner without paying a fortune.
Clean your carpet before you use a carpet cleaner.
 This may seem counterintuitive, but you don’t want dirt and hair to form wet clumps that block the cleaner. And if you haven’t washed your carpets in a while (or ever), be prepared for an embarrassing amount of hairy clogs to fill the dirty water tank.
The carpet shampoo or detergent you use is important.
 Manufacturers often insist you use their brand, and while other types may work fine, you might void your warranty (although I have no idea how they'd know). Most carpet cleaners come with some detergent, but I had a good experience with Rug Doctor's Commercial Carpet Cleaner ($20).
 It works well and does not have a strong scent, and you can buy a large jug for cheap.
Try, try, and try again.
It can be disappointing to fire up a carpet cleaner and find that it’s incapable of removing that old red wine stain or ground-in toothpaste. Don’t lose heart. Multiple cleaning sessions can sometimes chip away at established stains, and at least reduce, if not remove, them.
Drying your carpets can take a long time.
 Most carpet cleaners have different settings, and they will suck up some of the water, but they all leave carpets a bit damp. The deeper cleans tend to leave carpets wet, so think about how you might speed drying time. Use fans, fire up the heating, or do your carpet cleaning in the spring and summer months when you can leave windows open.
Protect your hearing.
Of all the ways you can damage your hearing, a carpet cleaner is perhaps the least fun, so protect your ears. Some of these get very loud, so wear earplugs while you work.
Contributor X Writer and Reviewer X Topics Shopping buying guides cleaning How We Clean Scott Gilbertson Scott Gilbertson Boone Ashworth Carlton Reid Reece Rogers Virginia Heffernan Boone Ashworth Boone Ashworth WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
