Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Matt Jancer Gear How to Design the Perfect Yoga Space at Home Photograph: Nancy Honey/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save So you're not a human Tetris piece and can't seem to wedge yourself anywhere in your tiny home for a badly needed session of yoga. Good news: You can make it work, even if you're separated from your regular yoga studio. It doesn't take much to get started. I spoke with Jessamyn Stanley , founder of The Underbelly and author of Every Body Yoga , for advice on how to begin turning your home into a one-person yoga studio.
Updated March 2021: We added a section on lighting sources and expanded our clothing options.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get a 1-year subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.
com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
Lululemon Reversible Mat.
Photograph: Lululemon If you're just starting out with yoga, get a cheap mat, literally from anywhere. It'll force you to be more aware of your body positioning to keep from sliding around, instead of relying on an ultra-grippy mat to compensate for bad form.
"It's not a good idea to spend a lot of money right out the gate," Stanley says. "Sometimes if you start with a really good mat, you don’t learn all the really important foundational, tactical body things that are really necessary to have a more advanced physical practice." Once you start to grasp yoga principles, Stanley says it's time to step up to a better mat. She likes the Lululemon Reversible Mat ($88) , which is what she considers a starting point for “good mats.” Want the perfect mat? Shell out for the Jade Yoga Fusion Mat ($135).
Regardless of the mat, you're going to get it sweaty, so throw a towel over it. Stanley doesn't think yoga towels are worth it, so use a regular bathing towel, preferably one that's been washed a few times, because a brand-new one will be more slippery.
Muji oil diffuser.
Photograph: Muji Aside from making enough room around your mat so you won't bang elbows on any furniture, a yoga space needs to be inviting, even if it's just a temporary clearing on the living room floor with the coffee table pushed back. Try to make one spot your regular yoga area. Having a certain part of the home become familiar as your yoga space can help ease you into the mindset that you're exiting the workday and ignoring other flashy living room distractions—now it's time for yoga.
Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So All the personalization is optional. This is the easiest step, because as long as it doesn't get in your way or distract you, it's fair game. Scents might help put you in the right headspace, too. You can set up candles , burn incense, or use an oil diffuser.
 Lavender and sage are especially prized for potentially relaxing effects. Adding indoor greenery with houseplants is one of Stanley's favorite ways to decorate a yoga space.
Anything that speaks to you and makes you relax into a state of mind that lets you begin to focus on yoga will do. You can even meditate before you switch to yoga. Your home meditation space can double as your yoga space.
Photograph: Bobby Quillard Locate your space near a window or skylight. Natural light boosts the release of serotonin, one of the chemicals that makes us feel happy and relaxed. If windows aren't an option, you can use smart bulbs and tweak brightness and hues when you're ready for yoga.
Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So A light-therapy lamp , a medically proven way to trigger the release of melatonin and serotonin to help wake you up, can also help before a yoga session if you're feeling drowsy or dreary. Or try a sunrise alarm , which mimics natural sunrises and sunsets to put you at ease.
If loud neighbors, roommates, or street noise keep you from focusing, buy a sound machine to drown them out. The LectroFan Classic is our favorite, because it has 10 fan sounds and 10 varieties of white, pink, and brown noise. Even silence can be deafening sometimes, so it can come in handy if you need some background noise to focus on your yoga.
Gaiam Yoga Essentials Block.
Photograph: Gaiam Get at least two yoga blocks.
 There are going to be times that, no matter how good your form and strength are, you're going to wish your arms were a bit longer to pull off a pose. That's where a block comes in handy. When you need to plant a hand on the floor but aren't flexible enough to reach, the block will allow you to brace yourself.
Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So You can also use blocks in other ways, such as raising the pelvis or resting your head in other positions. It's the most useful and ubiquitous prop. "It's not about assisting the practice," Stanley says. "It's about deepening the practice." Other options are bolsters , which are large cushions used for support in various positions where you wouldn't want to use a hard block, and straps , which can help you reach your feet in poses where you need extra flexibility.
Like with the mat and towel, you can use stuff lying around the house as alternatives if you want to save money while you're still new to yoga. Tape cardboard boxes together to make blocks. Use books or a couch cushion. Stanley has even used a trash can as a block and her dog's leash as a yoga strap. You really don't need to buy stuff to practice yoga, she says, although once you start improvising equipment you'll start to realize the virtue in buying gear made for yoga.
Photograph: Lululemon "You should practice as close to naked as possible," Stanley says. If you're comfortable practicing naked, do that. If you can't because you're sharing your home or just aren't down with the idea of it, then practice in your underwear. I use these ExOfficio boxer briefs for hiking, but the synthetic, stretchy fabric is tight-fitting but flexible: perfect for yoga. The women's version is similarly made.
Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Still too much skin? Go for tighter yoga clothes instead of loose, baggy clothing. Tighter yoga pants let you be more aware of your body positioning and less concerned about extra fabric getting in your way. There are fewer yoga pant options for men than for women.
 A lot of what's marketed toward men is loose-fitting, which hangs and gets caught up while positioning yourself.
It's easier to find a T-shirt in your wardrobe that'll work for yoga, but it could still help to buy one with some stretch in the material to prevent it from restricting your movements. Yoga clothes are expensive, but you don't need to spend big. Uniqlo has affordable, tight-fitting pants marketed as leggings for women and tights for men that will work just fine for yoga.
📩 The latest on tech, science, and more: Get our newsletters ! A boy, his brain, and a decades-long medical controversy My treadmill desk made working from home a cakewalk Why covering canals with solar panels is a power move How to export your passwords from LastPass OOO: Help! What if my new job sucks too ? 👁️ Explore AI like never before with our new database 🎮 WIRED Games: Get the latest tips, reviews, and more 🏃🏽‍♀️ Want the best tools to get healthy? Check out our Gear team’s picks for the best fitness trackers , running gear (including shoes and socks ), and best headphones Writer and Reviewer Topics buying guides how-to Yoga Shopping Louryn Strampe Louryn Strampe Eric Ravenscraft Matt Jancer Simon Hill Brenda Stolyar Eric Ravenscraft Adrienne So WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
