Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Adam Speight Gear Team Gear Our 30 Favorite Gadgets and Gear for Under $30 Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Low-Cost Buds $25 at Amazon Portable Sound Machine $30 at Amazon Top-Up Dock $30 at Target For Loose-Leaf Lovers $12 at Amazon Saving cash is never a bad thing, and when words and phrases like “inflation” and “cost-of-living crisis” are all over the news, finding value for money has become even more important to many. WIRED's Gear team has tested a broad range of products across many categories—many of which, handily, cost under $30. This guide brings together those top value-for-money picks into one list.
The choices here are useful for any time of year, but if you’re looking to spend thriftily this holiday, check out our 25 Amazing Gifts Under $25 guide for ideas. Don't forget to dive into our buying guides for more recommendations.
Updated December 2022: We’ve added an entirely new selection of our favorite budget finds.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get a 1-year subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Photograph: JLab Low-Cost Buds JLab Audio Go Air Pop The Go Air Pop are a great pair of cheap earbuds that fit well, come in cool colors, and have an AirPod-beating 8 hours of battery life. They don't sound quite as good as Apple's finest, but they perform more than well enough for listening to music and podcasts, especially as a pair you don't have to worry too much about. The included charging case also has a built-in USB cable, which means you'll never hunt through a drawer for one.
$25 at Amazon $25 at Walmart Photograph: Amazon Portable Sound Machine Dreamegg D11 The Dreamegg D11 is our favorite sound machine for portability. While it's aimed at the parents of babies, there's nothing stopping adults in need of some soothing sounds from using this too. Its small size makes it easy to take with you on the go, and there's 11 sounds for you to try, from a fan to lullaby music and more.
$30 at Amazon $40 at Dreamegg Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Sony Top-Up Dock Sony DualSense Charging Station This PS5 accessory is an absolute must-have. Using the included cable is such a hassle, especially if you have more than one controller. With the dock, I simply pick my controller up to use it and place back down after every gaming session. Simple. There's really not much else to it. It's an essential gadget for those who like the easy life.
$30 at Target Photograph: Amazon For Loose-Leaf Lovers Oxo Brew Twisting Tea Ball Infuser This clever gizmo from Oxo is a swift way to deliver your loose-leaf tea fix. You simply open the infuser basket by twisting the handle, then you can scoop up your leaves, close again, and proceed to dunk in your cup of choice. The closed basket makes it easy to transport and ditch the leaves once you're done too.
$12 at Amazon Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Amazon Iced Tea Tool Hario Cold Brew Tea Pot Of course, tea isn't just for warming up the cold among us. There's iced tea too. This tea pot from Hario is our cold brew choice in our best tea accessories guide. Get your loose leaf in there, whack in some water, then pop in the fridge the day before you need it. In the morning you'll have your cherished iced tea fix.
$20 at Amazon Photograph: Logitech Portable Keyboard Logitech K380 Apple and Logitech itself sell more elaborate keyboard cases that comprise of, well, a case and a keyboard. But if you're not a regular user of a tablet and keyboard combo, you might not want to have your case always bound to a keyboard 24/7. Enter this portable keyboard from Logitech. One of our top iPad accessories , the K380 is a compact and quiet, yet tactile, keyboard that's easy to sling in a bag or stow away at a desk. There are a few colorful shade options too.
$27 at Amazon $40 at Logitech Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Harbor Freight Tough Tool Transport Harbor Freight Hercules Tool Tote This small tool bag is a great option for the home, to whip out when a household DIY situation hits. It may just be fabric but it's built to resist bumps and the like. There's also 22 pockets to accommodate all the home tools you need, with pockets on both the inside and out for easy access.
$27 at Harbor Freight Photograph: Belkin Upgrade Your Webcam Belkin iPhone Mount With MagSafe for MacBooks If it's possible to solve a problem in both an elegant and inelegant way, then this is it. The idea of attaching a phone to your laptop as a way to improve your webcam experience feels like overkill, but Apple has softened the blow as best it can. The Belkin iPhone Mount with MagSafe for MacBooks (the name is also inelegant) is one of our favorite MagSafe accessories and achieves what it says on the tin. The mount will let your iPhone be used as a webcam using Apple's Continuity Camera feature, improving picture quality to no end.
$26 at Amazon (For MacBooks) $30 at Apple (For MacBooks) $40 at Amazon (for Mac Displays) $40 at Apple (for Mac Displays) Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Anker Powerful Plug Anker Nano Pro This Anker charger is one of the best iPad accessories , but it's great for phones and Android tablets alike too. It can achieve up to 20W output, meaning it's able to fast charge an iPad Pro. The big benefits here are its diminutive size and value-for-money proposition—coming in slightly cheaper than Apple's own plugs. There's no cable included, but that's another thing Anker can help you out with.
$14 at Amazon Photograph: Amazon An Outdoor Dog Bed Coolaroo The Original Cooling Elevated Pet Bed A cheap and cheerful place for your dog to just chill out, Coolaroo has it covered. The Original Cooling Elevated Pet Bed is one of our recommendations for a top dog bed.
 The bed's raised form factor allows air to circulate around your doggo while they sit comfortably. There's plenty of choice here too, with a bunch of sizes and colors available.
$30 at Amazon $33 at Chewy Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Cat Person Feline Fun Cat Person Toys Filling up our best cat furniture guide with some entertainment for your pet is Cat Person's range of toys. WIRED's feline fanatic Medea Giordano was a big fan of Georgia the Chicken (pictured). Cat Person offers a variety of cat-friendly products but these particular toys come attached to a string and stuffed full of catnip.
$7 at Cat Person Photograph: Roku A Simple Streaming Stick Roku Express HD We think the Streaming Stick 4K Plus is the best Roku for most people, but if you want to spend the least amount of money and still enjoy Roku’s simple interface, get the Express HD. It’s for those with a standard HDTV. Roku works with all the major streaming services, and even the least techy among us can figure it out. But at this price, the remote can’t control your TV’s volume or power. — Medea Giordano $28 at Amazon $29 at Walmart Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: B&H A Camera Strap Hex Ranger Camera Wrist Strap The strap of choice for WIRED reviews editor Julian Chokkattu, this camera accessory from Hex offers a neat trick. Once attached to your wrist correctly, if you drop the camera, the strap will tighten, then loosen again once you grab a hold of it for your next snap. No need for extra fastenings to mess around with. It's also comfortable and doesn't feel too restrictive.
$29.95 at B&H $29.95 at Hex Photograph: Lamicall Adaptable Arm Mount Lamicall Gooseneck iPad Holder Ever been lying in bed, back flat to the mattress, looking up at your phone, and had it smash you right in the face? Now, imagine it's an iPad… ouch. This bendable arm is one of our favorite iPad accessories and is here to avoid unnecessary bumps and bruises, as well as save the odd sore neck. It can attach to a desk or nightstand and lets you position it perfectly for reading, watching, game-playing, and more. As a budget pick, the arm isn't the most stable we've tested, so it's best for passive viewing rather than tapping the screen regularly, but the Lamicall is extremely useful nonetheless.
$26 at Amazon Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Nintendo Cardboard Creativity Nintendo Labo Cardboard Kits Nintendo wowed the gaming world when it launched Labo, with a cornucopia of creative ideas to merge seamlessly with your Switch. Some of the kits represented a bit of a high bar to entry, but options like this Vehicle Drive Kit are pleasingly cheap. This model comes with a steering wheel and pilot joystick to build, alongside an accompanying game for hours of fun.
$45 at Amazon Photograph: Anker Pint-Sized Power Anker PowerPort Cube WIRED reviewer Eric Ravenscraft absolutely loves the Anker PowerPort Cube and it's easy to see why. The cubed charger offers extension cable–like benefits in a package that's far less space-consuming, allowing you to smartly place it under your couch or in similar locale.
$22 at Amazon $22 at Walmart Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: PopSockets Getting A Grip PopSockets PopGrip for MagSafe One for PopSocket fans, and another one of our top picks for MagSafe accessories to consider, this PopGrip uses Apple's magnetic tech to snap to the back of your iPhone. Admittedly, solely leaving the fate of your phone grip down to MagSafe is slightly less reassuring than an embedded case or accessory that uses an adhesive, but this is a convenient option nonetheless. If you get bored of this look, you can even switch out the top portion for something else.
$30 at Amazon $30 at PopSockets Photograph: Case-Mate A Blocky iPhone Case Case-Mate Blox MagSafe Case There's a wide variety of cases you can buy for your iPhone, but it hasn’t felt like there's been something truly different for a long while … until now. One of our best iPhone 14 cases , the Case-Mate Blox MagSafe Case is something out of the box. This case turns your iPhone into an angular slab. And the interesting shape is accompanied by some eye-catching colors, in case the build wasn't enough to grab some attention. It isn't the very best for protecting your screen, but it does have MagSafe support.
$25 at Amazon (Pro Max) $40 at Case-Mate Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Miir Top Travel Mug Miir Flip Traveler (16 Ounce) No ifs, no buts, no leaky cups, this travel mug from Miir is the best around. WIRED reviewer Matt Jancer has put it through its paces for years and highly rates its leak-proofing. Plus, its slender size means it will fit snuggly in backpacks and cup-holders alike.
$35 at Miir $39 at Amazon Photograph: Amazon A Cheap Knife Kiwi Stainless Steel 8-inch Chef's Knife A good knife shouldn't cost a fortune. These Kiwis are our top cheap pick among the best knives around. The steel isn't the best, but if you sharpen regularly they'll keep an edge just as well as a $100 knife. Just take some of the money you save on these and invest in a good sharpening system. We like this Gatco rod-guided sharpening system , which eliminates much of the guesswork of sharpening.
$10 at Amazon Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Logitech Cheap Gaming Mouse Logitech G203 This low-price gaming mouse is our favorite under $50. The Logitech G203 offers a decent 8,000 DPI along with six customizable buttons and RGB lighting. Sure, you'll find better mice at higher price points, but this is a top value pick.
$40 at Amazon $40 at Walmart Photograph: Chronicle Books A Colorful Read The Brilliant Deep This book from Kate Messner and Matthew Forsythe is an entertaining and informative look at environmental preservation and the work of scientist Ken Nedimyer, founder of the Coral Restoration Foundation.
The Brilliant Deep delves into coral reefs and scuba diving alongside tales of Nedimyer's life.
$12 at Amazon Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Anker A Wireless Charger Anker PowerWave Pad and Stand Wireless charging has become standard in smartphones over the past few years, and it’s lovely not having to fumble with cables. Anker’s reliable and affordable chargers come in various shapes and sizes, but we think the PowerWave Stand makes a great gift for your loved one’s desk or bedside table. With your phone propped up and charging, it’s easy to see incoming notifications and tap that touchscreen when you need to.
$16 at Amazon (Pad) $24 at Amazon (Stand) Photograph: Philips No-Fuss Cleaning Philips One by Sonicare The cheap Philips One electric toothbrush is for the in-betweeners. You don’t want the most powerful vibrations or app support while you brush your teeth, but you want a little more help than a manual toothbrush. It vibrates enough to aide in your cleaning, though you still have to do most of the work. This version takes one AAA battery, or you can spend $40 for the rechargeable one.
$25 at Amazon (Battery) $40 at Amazon (Rechargeable) Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Prostorm Budget 'Brella ProStorm Vented Travel Umbrella Keeping out of the rain shouldn't cost the earth, and Prostorm has us covered, literally. This vented travel umbrella has a fiberglass and steel frame for batting back wind and rain. It offers plenty of space for one person, though, annoyingly, the handle itself is a tad on the small side.
$20 at Amazon Photograph: Nimble A Cable For The Eco-Conscious Nimble PowerKnit USB-C to USB-C Want a cable that's eco-friendly but doesn't compromise on quality? This one from Nimble has been the go-to for WIRED reviews editor Julian Chokkattu for several years now with nary an issue, and it sits pride of place in our best USB-C cables guide. This cable dodges feeling cheap and plasticky, with its mix of certified recycled plastic and aluminum feeling nice and textured. There are three lengths to choose from, plus there's a two-year warranty for your peace of mind.
$22 at Nimble Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Verbatim In A Flash Verbatim Pinstripe (256 GB) It may not be the most glamorous gift, but this USB flash drive is a virtual filing cabinet for your pocket. Whether your recipient wants to take their saved games with them, backup and transfer photos, or share the first draft of their novel, this practical thumb drive will come in handy. It slides shut, so there’s no cap to lose, and there is a handy loop for sliding onto a keychain. Plus, you can never have too many thumb drives.
$23 at Amazon Photograph: Sandisk Need Some Space SanDisk 128 GB High-Speed MicroSD Card The best thing I did with my Nintendo Switch, beyond playing The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild , was beefing up the storage. This 128-GB microSD card let me go all-digital and ditch the requirement to lug around cartridges, and it's pretty cheap. That's why it's in our best Switch accessories roundup.
$14 at Amazon (128 GB) $24 at Amazon (256 GB) Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Photograph: Monoprice 360 Extender Monoprice 8 Outlet Rotating Surge Strip Ever thought of using a surge stripe with rotating outlets? You may never go back. Sitting in our Work From Home guide, this Monoprice extender more easily accommodates your different plugs by allowing you to rotate the sockets to your needs. Who would’ve thunk.
$27 at Amazon Photograph: JBL Wired For Sound JBL Tune 205 The JBL Tune 205 are a solid pair of wired earbuds with ergonomic tips and an included mic for calls. They come in a nondescript black and with a convenient carrying pouch, so they won't tangle up around all your other belongings in your bag or pockets.
$20 at Amazon Writer and reviewer X Topics Shopping buying guides gear Scott Gilbertson Scott Gilbertson Boone Ashworth Reece Rogers Carlton Reid Virginia Heffernan Boone Ashworth Boone Ashworth WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
