Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons David Nield Security How to Use Passkeys in Google Chrome and Android Illustration: Andriy Onufriyenko/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Google recently announced that passkey support is coming to both the Android operating system and the Google Chrome web browser—and if you're wondering exactly what that means, you're in the right place. Passkeys are essentially a replacement for passwords that are designed to be more secure. You use them instead of traditional passwords to get into your various digital accounts, whether that's Google, Twitter, Dropbox, or anything else.
You don't get an actual key. Instead, some kind of unlocking mechanism—typically facial recognition or fingerprint recognition, or just a PIN code—is used to prove you are who you say you are for the purposes of logging in.
However, it's not just a case of pressing a button and switching over. Developers need to also code passkey support into their apps and websites, which is why Google made the announcement on its Android Developers Blog.
The move is part of a broader industry push toward a passwordless future—you might have noticed that Microsoft is doing something similar.
 Users don't have to remember passwords, and there aren't any passwords for hackers to steal.
You'll soon be able to create passkeys on your Android devices.
Google via David Nield As Google puts it , a passkey “identifies a particular user account on some online service.” At its center is a cryptographic private key that gets stored on the devices you use. This is then matched against a public key held by the digital services you're signing into to confirm your identity.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg To make sure it's really you, you'll need to unlock your phone or computer, which on a phone usually means entering a PIN code or letting your face or fingerprint get scanned. On computers, passwords may still be used to verify your identity, but the industry is moving toward biometric authentication all the time.
You don't actually see the passkey itself or need to know what it is—you just have to be you. Your face or fingerprint replaces that long list of passwords on a Post-it note that you might have, so it's much simpler and more convenient.
These passkeys use public-key cryptography, so if they're involved in a data breach, they're useless to bad actors without your face or your fingerprint. Similarly, if your laptop or phone gets stolen, your accounts can't be accessed because you're not going to be around to provide the necessary authentication.
This isn't just a Google initiative. Organizations such as the FIDO Alliance and the W3C Web Authentication group are busy working toward a passwordless future as well, so you'll be able to use these systems across any device, whether made by Google, Apple, Microsoft, or any other hardware maker.
Biometric authentication can be used in place of a password.
Google via David Nield The good news is that using passkeys is as easy as unlocking your phone—it's intended to be as straightforward as possible. You'll be able to choose to move to a passkey system for your accounts, but only when the app you're logging in to and the device you're using have been upgraded with passkey support.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg Let's say Google has finished rolling out passkey support to Android, you're logging in to an app that has been updated to use passkeys, and you've said yes when prompted to make the switch from a standard password. You'll then be asked to create a passkey, which will involve you having to do the same action you do to unlock your phone—show your face, press down your fingerprint, or enter a PIN. That creates the passkey and authenticates the link between the app in question and the device in your hand. Whenever you need to log in to that app in future, you'll need to go through the same unlock process. As with passwords, how long that authentication lasts will vary: With your banking app, you'll usually have to log in every time, whereas with a social media account one login per device is often enough.
You'll also be able to log in to sites on your computer through your phone via the magic of a QR code. The site will display a QR code that you scan with your phone—once you've gone through the unlock process on your mobile device, your identity will be confirmed and you'll be logged in to the site.
Encrypted synchronization across devices will also be handled—Google Password Manager is adding support for passkeys, for example, so should you lose access to one device, you can still get at your accounts from another one or from the cloud, assuming you're able to provide the necessary authentication (and you haven't changed your fingerprints or face in the meantime).
You Might Also Like … 📨 Make the most of chatbots with our AI Unlocked newsletter Taylor Swift, Star Wars, Stranger Things , and Deadpool have one man in common Generative AI is playing a surprising role in Israel-Hamas disinformation The new era of social media looks as bad for privacy as the last one Johnny Cash’s Taylor Swift cover predicts the boring future of AI music Your internet browser does not belong to you 🔌 Charge right into summer with the best travel adapters , power banks , and USB hubs Contributor X Topics Passwords identity encryption Chrome Android Lily Hay Newman Kate O'Flaherty Andrew Couts Justin Ling David Gilbert Dell Cameron Andy Greenberg Lily Hay Newman Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
