Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Emily Mullin Science Everything We Know About Neuralink’s Brain Implant Trial Photograph: Nathan Laine/Bloomberg/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Elon Musk’s brain implant company Neuralink has announced it is one step closer to putting brain implants in people.
Today, the company stated that it will begin recruiting patients with paralysis to test its experimental brain implant and that it has received approval from a hospital institutional review board. Such boards are independent committees assembled to monitor biomedical research involving human subjects and flag any concerns to investigators. Neuralink is dubbing this “the Prime Study,” for Precise Robotically Implanted Brain-Computer Interface.
Neuralink did not specify where the trial will take place, and company representatives did not immediately respond to WIRED’s emailed request for an interview.
Neuralink is one of a handful of companies developing a brain-computer interface, or BCI, a system that collects brain signals, analyzes them, and translates them into commands to control an external device. In May, the company said on X, formerly Twitter, that it had received approval from the US Food and Drug Administration to conduct its first in-human clinical study , but it didn’t provide further details at the time.
In a post on its website today, Neuralink states that the initial goal of its BCI will be to “grant people the ability to control a computer cursor or keyboard using their thoughts alone.” The clinical trial will test the safety of the company’s implant and surgical robot and assess the BCI’s functionality.
Neuralink has created a patient registry for people who are interested in learning whether they may qualify for the study. In a brochure on its website, Neuralink says it is looking for participants who have quadriplegia, or paralysis in all four limbs, due to cervical spinal cord injury or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) , and are at least 22 years old. For those chosen to participate, the study will involve a combination of nine at-home and in-person clinic visits over 18 months. Neuralink anticipates the study will take six years to complete.
Neuralink’s coin-sized implant is not visible when implanted, according to the company. It records neural activity using 1,024 electrodes, distributed across 64 threads, each thinner than a human hair.
During the study, the robot will surgically place the implant into a part of the brain that controls movement intention. Once in place, the implant is designed to record and transmit brain signals wirelessly to an app that decodes movement intention.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg The company has not revealed the exact region of the brain its device will be embedded in, which hospital has given the institutional review board approval, nor how many participants it will ultimately enroll in the study.
At a Neuralink “show and tell” last November , Musk spoke about two possible use cases for the implant: to help people with paralysis control tech devices and to restore vision. But there was no mention of a vision prosthetic in today’s release.
Neuralink is one of a handful of companies racing to bring a BCI to market. Although such devices have been used experimentally since the 1960s, none is available commercially. Other research efforts have allowed paralyzed people to control computers and prosthetic limbs with their thoughts, or to use a computer to speak, mostly in lab settings.
Synchron, one of Neuralink’s competitors , has shown that its implant can be used at home to allow paralyzed patients to do online banking, shopping, and emailing. The company’s implant resembles a flexible mesh stent and is threaded up through the jugular vein to sit against the brain, rather than inserted into the brain directly.
Two former Neuralink employees have started their own BCI ventures. Past Neuralink president Max Hodax established Science Corp.
in 2021 to develop a prosthesis to provide artificial vision to blind people. And Benjamin Rapoport, an original member of Musk’s team, founded Precision Neuroscience in 2020. Earlier this year, the company temporarily placed its implant on the brains of three patients to test the device’s ability to read and record electrical activity.
Jacob Robinson, a professor of electrical and computer engineering at Rice University, says 18 months is longer than some previous clinical trials of brain implants. (The devices are typically taken out once a study ends.) “I think this is good news for people who will be looking to benefit from this procedure,” says Robinson, who is also CEO and co-founder of Motif Neurotech , which is developing a brain implant for treating depression. “Ideally these technologies will be functional for several years, but this is a great step in the right direction.” Update 9-19-2023 6:25 pm ET: This story was updated to add comments from Jacob Robinson.
You Might Also Like … 📩 Get the long view on tech with Steven Levy's Plaintext newsletter Watch this guy work, and you’ll finally understand the TikTok era How Telegram became a terrifying weapon in the Israel-Hamas War Inside Elon Musk’s first election crisis —a day after he “freed” the bird The ultra-efficient farm of the future is in the sky The best pickleball paddles for beginners and pros 🌲 Our Gear team has branched out with a new guide to the best sleeping pads and fresh picks for the best coolers and binoculars Staff Writer X Topics biotech brain brains Brains and Behavior Neuroscience medicine health Elon Musk Emily Mullin Matt Simon Matt Simon Rhett Allain Ramin Skibba Rhett Allain Emily Mullin Emily Mullin Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
