Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Robert McMillan Business Google Hires Brains that Helped Supercharge Machine Learning Geoffrey Hinton (right), one of the machine learning scientists hard at work on The Google Brain. Photo: University of Toronto U of T Save this story Save Save this story Save Google has hired the man who showed how to make computers learn much like the human brain.
His name is Geoffrey Hinton, and on Tuesday, Google said that it had hired him along with two of his University of Toronto graduate students – Alex Krizhevsky and Ilya Sutskever. Their job: to help Google make sense of the growing mountains of data it is indexing and to improve products that already use machine learning – products such as Android voice search.
Google paid an undisclosed sum to buy Hinton's company, DNNresearch. It's a bit of a best-of-both-worlds deal for the researcher.
 He gets to stay in Toronto, splitting his time between Google and his teaching duties at the University of Toronto, while Krizhevsky and Sutskever fly south to work at Google's Mountain View, California campus.
Back in the 1980s, Hinton kicked off research into neural networks, a field of machine learning where programmers can build machine learning models that help them to sift through vast quantities of data and put together patterns, much like the human brain.
Once a hot research topic, neural networks had apparently failed to live up to their initial promises until around 2006, when Hinton and his researchers – spurred on by some new kick-ass microprocessors – developed new "deep learning" techniques that fine-tuned the tricky and time consuming process of building neural network models for computer analysis.
"Deep learning, pioneered by Hinton, has revolutionized language understanding and language translation," said Ed Lazowska, a computer science professor at the University of Washington. In an email interview, he said that a pretty spectacular December 2012 live demonstration of instant English-to-Chinese voice recognition and translation by Microsoft Research chief Rick Rashid was "one of many things made possible by Hinton's work." "Hinton has been working on neural networks for decades, and is one of the most brilliant minds of the field," said Andrew Ng, the Stanford University professor who set up Google's neural network team in 2011. Ng invited Hinton to Google last summer, where the Toronto academic spent a few months as a visiting professor. "I'm thrilled that he'll be continuing this work there, and am sure he'll help drive forward deep learning research at Google," Ng said via email.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg Google didn't want to comment, or let Hinton talk to us about his new job, but clearly, it's going to be important to Google's future. Neural network techniques helped reduce the error rate with Google's latest release of its voice recognition technology by 25 percent. And last month Google Fellow Jeff Dean told us that neural networks are becoming widely used in many areas of computer science.
"We're not quite as far along in deploying these to other products, but there are obvious tie-ins for image search. You'd like to be able to use the pixels of the image and then identify what object that is," he said. "There are a bunch of other more specialized domains like optical character recognition." "I am betting on Google’s team to be the epicenter of future breakthroughs," Hinton wrote in a Google+ post announcing his move.
You can watch Rick Rashid's cool demo here: Senior Writer X Topics analytics Enterprise Google machine learning neural networks research Search software Will Knight Amit Katwala Kari McMahon Andy Greenberg Khari Johnson David Gilbert David Gilbert Joel Khalili Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
