Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Powerful computer vision algorithms are now small enough to run on your phone By Karen Hao archive page An image of hand gestures being recognized on a mobile phone Hand illustrations: Noun Project / Ms. Tech Researchers have shrunk state-of-the-art computer vision models to run on low-power devices.
Growing pains: Visual recognition is deep learning’s strongest skill. Computer vision algorithms are analyzing medical images, enabling self-driving cars, and powering face recognition. But training models to recognize actions in videos has grown increasingly expensive. This has fueled concerns about the technology’s carbon footprint and its increasing inaccessibility in low-resource environments.
The research: Researchers at the MIT-IBM Watson AI Lab have now developed a new technique for training video recognition models on a phone or other device with very limited processing capacity. Typically, an algorithm will process video by splitting it up into image frames and running recognition algorithms on each of them. It then pieces together the actions shown in the video by seeing how the objects change over subsequent frames. The method requires the algorithm to “remember” what it has seen in each frame and the order in which it has seen it. This is unnecessarily inefficient.
In the new approach, the algorithm instead extracts basic sketches of the objects in each frame, and overlays them on top of one another. Rather than remember what happened when, the algorithm can get an impression of the passing of time by looking at how the objects shift through space in the sketches. In testing, the researchers found that the new approach trained video recognition models three times faster than the state of the art. It was also able to quickly classify hand gestures with a small computer and camera running only on enough energy to power a bike light.
Why it matters: The new technique could help reduce lag and computation costs in existing commercial applications of computer vision. It could, for example, make self-driving cars safer by speeding up their reaction to incoming visual information. The technique could also unlock new applications that previously weren’t possible, such as by enabling phones to help diagnose patients or analyze medical images.
Distributed AI: As more and more AI research gets translated into applications, the need for tinier models will increase. The MIT-IBM paper is part of a growing trend to shrink state-of-the-art models to a more manageable size.
To have more stories like this delivered directly to your inbox, sign up for our Webby-nominated AI newsletter The Algorithm. It's free.
hide by Karen Hao Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 Zeyi Yang How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Deep Dive Artificial intelligence This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI The tool, called Nightshade, messes up training data in ways that could cause serious damage to image-generating AI models.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 With just a few minutes of sample video and $1,000, brands never have to stop selling their products.
By Zeyi Yang archive page Driving companywide efficiencies with AI Advanced AI and ML capabilities revolutionize how administrative and operations tasks are done.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page Rogue superintelligence and merging with machines: Inside the mind of OpenAI’s chief scientist An exclusive conversation with Ilya Sutskever on his fears for the future of AI and why they’ve made him change the focus of his life’s work.
By Will Douglas Heaven archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
