Indaba Posters Programme Speakers Sponsors Venue Women in Machine Learning IndabaX Awards Maathai Impact Award Kambule Doctoral Award Blog About Our Mission The Indaba Abantu Resources Reports Community Code of Conduct Videos and Slides Press and News Contact Us Other Editions 2017 2019 2020 2021 Indaba Posters Programme Speakers Sponsors Venue Women in Machine Learning IndabaX Awards Maathai Impact Award Kambule Doctoral Award Blog About Our Mission The Indaba Abantu Resources Reports Community Code of Conduct Videos and Slides Press and News Contact Us Other Editions 2017 2019 2020 2021 Speakers The 2018 edition of Deep Learning Indaba welcomed 33 brilliant speakers who took time from their busy lives to attend the conference.
Plenary Speakers "new">Asja Fischer Assistant Professor, Ruhr-University Bochum "new">Katja Hofmann Researcher, Microsoft Research Cambridge "new">Kyunghyun Cho Assistant Professor, New York University, and Research scientist at Facebook AI Research "new">Jeff Dean Senior Fellow, Google AI. Google Brain lead and co-founder. Co-designer and implementor of Tensorflow, MapReduce, BigTable, Spanner.
"new">Moustapha Cisse Team Lead, Google AI Ghana; Lead, African Masters in Machine Intelligence, AIMS "new">Naila Murray Senior scientist, Naver Labs Europe "new">Nando De Freitas Principal Scientist and Team Lead, DeepMind; and Deep Learning Indaba advisory board member "new">Yabebal Fantaye Junior Research Chair, African Institute for Mathematical Sciences, South Africa Speakers for Mathematics for Machine Learning Learn the key concepts of probability and differential calculus necessary to gain the most from the rest of the week’s programme. This session will be split into 5 smaller classes run in parallel (each covering the same material).
"new">Cynthia Mulenga Product Manager, Mwabu Zambia; Trainer, Asikana Network; Co-lead Facebook Developer Circle Lusaka "new">Daniela Massiceti PhD Candidate, University of Oxford "new">Kathleen Siminyu Data Scientist Africa's Talking; Co-organiser, Nairobi Machine Learning and Data Science "new">Kendi Muchungi Programme Leader, Africa Nazarene University "new">Avishkar Bhoopchand Research Engineer, DeepMind AI and Africa In this session we wish to highlight the ongoing as well as new directions of AI/ML work happening in Africa. This session will have two sections, first we will have short presentations 5-10 minutes from senior representatives from AI/ML/Policy companies and organisation (both NGO and governmental). These presentations are meant to provide an overview of what each organisation offers, highlight their successes, learn from challenges encountered and understand opportunities discovered. Following the presentations, we will have a Q&A session to open up the conversation to the audience.
"new">Sumir Panji​ Network Manager, H3-Africa "new">David Sengeh Chief Innovation Officer at Government of Sierra-Leone "new">Jon Lenchner Chief Scientist, IBM Research Africa Generative Models and Healthcare This sessions builds on the understanding of generative models, with a focus on applications in healthcare. For the first half, Konstantina will discuss the role of probabilistic thinking, uncertainty and causality, and then look at how these tools can be used to build personalised healthcare tools. In the second part, Shakir will recap the area of generative models, specifically the algorithms for LDA, VAEs and GANs, and then look at how these can be applied in healthcare settings ranging from analysis of electronic health records, medical notes, in drug discovery, and in medical imaging.
"new">Konstantina Palla Researcher in the Healthcare ML Division at Microsoft Research Cambridge "new">Shakir Mohamed Research Scientist, DeepMind, London Special Session on Reinforcement Learning "new">David Silver Principal Scientist, DeepMind Natural Language Processing Learn about the recent history of NLP and discuss the biggest open problems in NLP with a panel of experts.
"new">Herman Kamper Lecturer, Stellenbosch University "new">Sebastian Ruder PhD Candidate, Insight Research Centre for Data Analytics; Research scientist, AYLIEN, Dublin AI Ethics and Policy This session will tackle the intersections of AI/ML, Ethics and Policy on the continent. Session will be a blend of a practical interactive Ethics session, a talk on fairness and robust discussion via an expert panel made up of researchers, practitioners, policy makers. At the end of the day, we would like to answer: How do we work to inject our own values into AI/ML development in Africa, allow a progressive environment for development and protect our communities? "new">Timnit Gebru Research Scientist, Google AI; Black in AI "new">Osonde Osoba Engineer, Rand Corporation; Professor, Pardee RAND Graduate School "new">Mmaki Jantjies Senior Lecturer, University Western Cape "new">Linet Kwamboka Founder and CEO DataScience Ltd "new">Vukosi Marivate Chair of Data Science, University of Pretoria; CSIR; ​and Deep Learning Indaba Machine Learning in Production Learn the tricks of the trade for deploying and scaling ML models in a production environment from experienced practitioners.
"new">Omoju Miller Senior Data Scientist, GitHub "new">Stuart Reid Chief Scientist and partner, NMRQL Research "new">Amine Kerkerni AI Product Development Lead, InstaDeep Frontiers of Computer Vision Learned the basics of Convolutional Neural Networks? Want to know go beyond? Join to extend your understanding of CNNs and how they extract image features for higher-level computer vision tasks like object detection, localisation and semantic segmentation. Following this, we invite a panel of computer vision experts to give their personal insights, advice and expert views on the frontiers of the field: what are the biggest unsolved problems in computer vision, how are they relevant to Africa, and where should African researchers be directing their energy to solve these problems. Also join to hear short spotlight talks given by fellow Indaba attendees – a great opportunity to learn more about current state-of-the-art methods being used in computer vision! "new">Sara Hooker Google AI Ghana Life of a Machine Learning Startup "new">Andrea Böhmert Co-Managing Partner Knife Capital "new">Karim Beguir Co-founder and CEO of InstaDeep, Google Developer Machine Learning Expert Reinforcement Learning II "new">Benjamin Rosman Researcher, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research Contact us Deep Learning Indaba Strengthening African Machine Learning info@deeplearningindaba.com Indaba 2021 IndabaX Awards Mentorship Blog About Copyright © Deep Learning Indaba 2017 - 2023. All Rights Reserved.
