Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Will Knight Business A Radical Plan to Make AI Good, Not Evil Photograph: Javier Zayas/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save It’s easy to freak out about more advanced artificial intelligence —and much more difficult to know what to do about it.
Anthropic , a startup founded in 2021 by a group of researchers who left OpenAI , says it has a plan.
Anthropic is working on AI models similar to the one used to power OpenAI’s ChatGPT.
 But the startup announced today that its own chatbot, Claude , has a set of ethical principles built in that define what it should consider right and wrong, which Anthropic calls the bot’s “constitution.” Jared Kaplan, a cofounder of Anthropic, says the design feature shows how the company is trying to find practical engineering solutions to sometimes fuzzy concerns about the downsides of more powerful AI. “We're very concerned, but we also try to remain pragmatic,” he says.
Anthropic’s approach doesn’t instill an AI with hard rules it cannot break. But Kaplan says it is a more effective way to make a system like a chatbot less likely to produce toxic or unwanted output. He also says it is a small but meaningful step toward building smarter AI programs that are less likely to turn against their creators.
The notion of rogue AI systems is best known from science fiction, but a growing number of experts, including Geoffrey Hinton , a pioneer of machine learning, have argued that we need to start thinking now about how to ensure increasingly clever algorithms do not also become increasingly dangerous.
The principles that Anthropic has given Claude consist of guidelines drawn from the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and suggested by other AI companies, including Google DeepMind. More surprisingly, the constitution includes principles adapted from Apple’s rules for app developers , which bar “content that is offensive, insensitive, upsetting, intended to disgust, in exceptionally poor taste, or just plain creepy,” among other things.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg The constitution includes rules for the chatbot, including “choose the response that most supports and encourages freedom, equality, and a sense of brotherhood”; “choose the response that is most supportive and encouraging of life, liberty, and personal security”; and “choose the response that is most respectful of the right to freedom of thought, conscience, opinion, expression, assembly, and religion.” Anthropic’s approach comes just as startling progress in AI delivers impressively fluent chatbots with significant flaws. ChatGPT and systems like it generate impressive answers that reflect more rapid progress than expected. But these chatbots also frequently fabricate information , and can replicate toxic language from the billions of words used to create them, many of which are scraped from the internet.
One trick that made OpenAI’s ChatGPT better at answering questions, and which has been adopted by others, involves having humans grade the quality of a language model’s responses. That data can be used to tune the model to provide answers that feel more satisfying, in a process known as “reinforcement learning with human feedback” (RLHF). But although the technique helps make ChatGPT and other systems more predictable, it requires humans to go through thousands of toxic or unsuitable responses. It also functions indirectly, without providing a way to specify the exact values a system should reflect.
Anthropic’s new constitutional approach operates over two phases. In the first, the model is given a set of principles and examples of answers that do and do not adhere to them. In the second, another AI model is used to generate more responses that adhere to the constitution, and this is used to train the model instead of human feedback.
“The model trains itself by basically reinforcing the behaviors that are more in accord with the constitution, and discourages behaviors that are problematic,” Kaplan says.
“It’s a great idea that seemingly led to a good empirical result for Anthropic,” says Yejin Choi , a professor at the University of Washington who led a previous experiment that involved a large language model giving ethical advice.
Choi says that the approach will work only for companies with large models and plenty of compute power. She adds that it is also important to explore other approaches, including greater transparency around training data and the values that models are given. “We desperately need to involve people in the broader community to develop such constitutions or datasets of norms and values,” she says.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg Thomas Dietterich , a professor at Oregon State University who is researching ways of making AI more robust, says Anthropic’s approach looks like a step in the right direction. “They can scale feedback-based training much more cheaply and without requiring people—data labelers—to expose themselves to thousands of hours of toxic material,” he says Dietterich adds it is especially important that the rules Claude adheres to can be inspected by those working on the system as well as outsiders, unlike the instructions that humans give a model through RLHF. But he says that the method does not completely eradicate errant behavior. Anthropic’s model is less likely to come out with toxic or morally problematic answers, but it is not perfect.
The idea of giving AI a set of rules to follow might seem familiar, having been put forward by Isaac Asimov in a series of science fiction stories that proposed Three Laws of Robotics.
 Asimov’s stories typically centered on the fact that the real world often presented situations that created a conflict between individual rules.
Kaplan of Anthropic says that modern AI is actually quite good at handling this kind of ambiguity. “The strange thing about contemporary AI with deep learning is that it’s kind of the opposite of the sort of 1950s picture of robots, where these systems are, in some ways, very good at intuition and free association,” he says. “If anything, they’re weaker on rigid reasoning.” Anthropic says other companies and organizations will be able to give language models a constitution based on a research paper that outlines its approach. The company says it plans to build on the method with the goal of ensuring that even as AI gets smarter, it does not go rogue.
Updated 5-9-2023, 3:20 pm EDT: Thomas Dietterich is at Oregon State University, not the University of Oregon.
You Might Also Like … 📧 Find the best bargains on quality gear with our Deals newsletter “ Someone is using photos of me to talk to men” First-gen social media users have nowhere to go The truth behind the biggest (and dumbest) battery myths We asked a Savile Row tailor to test all the “best” T-shirts you see in social media ads My kid wants to be an influencer.
 Is that bad? 🌞 See if you take a shine to our picks for the best sunglasses and sun protection Senior Writer X Topics artificial intelligence algorithms ethics Regulation neural networks ChatGPT OpenAI Will Knight Amit Katwala Khari Johnson David Gilbert Kari McMahon David Gilbert Joel Khalili Amit Katwala Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
