Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Will Knight Business OpenAI’s Dall-E 3 Is an Art Generator Powered by ChatGPT AI Art Courtesy of OpenAI Save this story Save Save this story Save OpenAI has announced Dall-E 3, its latest AI art tool. It uses OpenAI’s smash-hit chatbot, ChatGPT, to help create more complex and carefully composed works of art by automatically expanding on a prompt in a way that gives the generator more detailed and coherent instruction.
What’s new with Dall-E 3 is how it removes some of the complexity required with refining the text that is fed to the program—what’s known as “prompt engineering”—and how it allows users to make refinements through ChatGPT’s conversational interface. The new tool could help lower the bar for generating sophisticated AI artwork, and it could help OpenAI stay ahead of the competition thanks to the superior abilities of its chatbot.
AI Art Courtesy of OpenAI Take this image of the potato king, for example.
This kind of quirky AI-generated art has become commonplace on social media thanks to a number of tools that turn a text prompt into a visual composition. But this one was created with a significant amount of artistic assistance from ChatGPT , which took a short prompt and turned it into a more detailed one, including instructions about how to compose it correctly.
That’s a big step forward not just for Dall-E, but for generative AI art as a whole. Dall-E, a portmanteau of the Pixar character Wall-E and the artist Salvador Dalí that was announced in 2021 and launched in 2022 , consists of an algorithm that’s fed huge quantities of labeled images scraped from the web and other sources. It uses what’s known as a diffusion model to predict how to render an image for a given prompt. With sufficiently huge quantities of data this can produce complex, coherent, and aesthetically pleasing imagery. What’s different with Dall-E 3 is in the way humans and machines interact.
AI Art Courtesy of OpenAI Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg This image, rendered by Dall-E 3, shows how using ChatGPT to fill in a prompt produces a more coherent and sophisticated image. It might normally require a huge amount of prompt engineering, whereby a user tries increasingly complex prompts to create something sophisticated. But with Dall-E 3, ChatGPT takes on the work of crafting that more sophisticated prompt.
AI Art Courtesy of OpenAI Dall-E 3 produced this image in response to the following prompt: “An illustration of a human heart made of translucent glass, standing on a pedestal amid a stormy sea. Rays of sunlight pierce the clouds, illuminating the heart, revealing a tiny universe within. The quote 'Find the universe within you' is etched in bold letters across the horizon.” Dall-E 3 will also let users refine a creation through ChatGPT, as if they were asking a real artist to make changes. “You won't really have to worry about fussing around with really long prompts,” says Aditya Ramesh, lead researcher and head of the Dall-E team. “Instead, you can just interact with ChatGPT as if you were talking to a coworker.” Gabriel Goh, lead researcher on the Dall-E team, demonstrated the trick to WIRED by asking Dall-E 3 to create several promotional posters for an imaginary noodle restaurant. After being presented with a few options, Goh asked Dall-E 3, through ChatGPT, to take one of them and turn it into an illustration of a sign hanging outside a restaurant.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg Dall-E 3 is available now through ChatGPT Plus, a paid version of the chatbot.
In 2022, the emergence of numerous AI art generators heralded the start of a broader generative AI boom. Many of the early generators were crude and unable to refine or modify images. Besides OpenAI, startups including Midjourney , Stable Diffusion , and Ideogram have attracted significant funding and public interest. But the use of these AI art systems has also prompted concern that professional human artists could be displaced , and about how AI companies use copyrighted material to train their algorithms.
Reacting to this controversy, OpenAI also announced today that it will launch a way for artists to have their works removed from future training runs. Dall-E 3 will also prevent users from trying to generate a piece of art in the style of a well-known artist by detecting when that is included in a prompt.
OpenAI also has safeguards in place to block users from generating pornographic or graphically violent art, or images featuring public figures. Sandhini Agarwal, a policy researcher at OpenAI, says the new version of Dall-E has gone through even more “red teaming,” which involves researchers trying to break its guardrails. “A very explicit request for racy content, that's something that will have to go through a classifier and will be rejected,” Agarwal says. Some programmers have, of course, created open source image-generators without any restrictions.
One of the most notable results of the boom in AI-generated art is the surreal imagery that has flooded social media. The following image was generated using Dall-E 3 with help from ChatGPT, using this prompt: “A vast landscape made entirely of various meats spreads out before the viewer. Tender, succulent hills of roast beef, chicken drumstick trees, bacon rivers, and ham boulders create a surreal, yet appetizing scene. The sky is adorned with a pepperoni sun and salami clouds.” AI Art Courtesy of OpenAI You Might Also Like … 📨 Make the most of chatbots with our AI Unlocked newsletter Taylor Swift, Star Wars, Stranger Things , and Deadpool have one man in common Generative AI is playing a surprising role in Israel-Hamas disinformation The new era of social media looks as bad for privacy as the last one Johnny Cash’s Taylor Swift cover predicts the boring future of AI music Your internet browser does not belong to you 🔌 Charge right into summer with the best travel adapters , power banks , and USB hubs Senior Writer X Topics OpenAI machine learning artificial intelligence Will Knight Reece Rogers Will Knight Steven Levy Will Knight Khari Johnson Reece Rogers Khari Johnson Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
