Indaba Posters Programme Speakers Sponsors Venue Women in Machine Learning IndabaX Awards Maathai Impact Award Kambule Doctoral Award Blog About Our Mission The Indaba Abantu Resources Reports Community Code of Conduct Videos and Slides Press and News Contact Us Other Editions 2017 2019 2020 2021 Indaba Posters Programme Speakers Sponsors Venue Women in Machine Learning IndabaX Awards Maathai Impact Award Kambule Doctoral Award Blog About Our Mission The Indaba Abantu Resources Reports Community Code of Conduct Videos and Slides Press and News Contact Us Other Editions 2017 2019 2020 2021 Awards Key Dates 30 April 2018 – Nominations close 30 April 2018 – Support letters due July 2018 – Awardees notified September 2018 – Awards given The Deep Learning Indaba is proud to establish two annual awards, the Kambule Award and the Maathai award, to recognise excellence in African research and applications. These awards celebrate those who show the strength of African machine learning, and we encourage as many applications as possible.
Thamsanqa Kambule Doctoral Dissertation Award The Kambule dissertation award recognises and encourages excellence in research and writing by doctoral candidates at African universities, in any area of computational and statistical sciences. The Kambule award celebrates African research excellence: its recipients are those that uphold Thamsanqa Kambule’s legacy as a defender of learning, a seeker of knowledge, and activist for equality. The award will be presented at the annual Deep Learning Indaba in September 2018. We welcome nominations from both students themselves, and their supervisors and mentors. The winner will be awarded a trophy and a cash prize of at least ZAR 10,000.
See the Kambule Award page for more details of eligibility and submission.
Wangari Maathai Impact Award The Maathai award encourages and recognises work by African innovators that shows impactful application of machine learning and artificial intelligence. This award reinforces the legacy of Wangari Maathai in acknowledging the capacity of individuals to be a positive force for change: by recognising ideas and initiatives that demonstrate that each of us, no matter how small, can make a difference. The award will be presented at the annual Deep Learning Indaba in September 2018. We welcome nominations from both individuals, teams and organisations. The winner will be awarded a trophy and a cash prize.
See the Kambule Award page for more details of eligibility and submission.
English French KiSwahili Arabic Contact us Deep Learning Indaba Strengthening African Machine Learning info@deeplearningindaba.com Indaba 2021 IndabaX Awards Mentorship Blog About Copyright © Deep Learning Indaba 2017 - 2023. All Rights Reserved.
