Search @mouseenter="selectedIndex = index + '-' + key"> Search Result Tech Science Life Social Good Entertainment SHOP THE BEST Travel Product Reviews DEALS Newsletters VIDEOS > 3 tips for using Google's Bard AI chatbot more effectively, according to Google itself Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Flipboard Google has tips for using Bard better.
Credit: Lorenzo Di Cola/NurPhoto via Getty Images An AI chatbot can be neat — a fun thing to play with — but perhaps you're not using it to its full potential. Google, however, recently published a blog post sharing tips for how to use its AI chatbot, Bard , more effectively.
The blog post is helpful in its entirety, but we've picked out three of the tips that might be the most helpful for users looking to get the most out their AI chatbot.
1. Analyze and create images Google suggested that users can upload a picture then use Bard to analyze or provide more info about that image. For instance, you can get Bard to create content like that image or parse through an image of handwritten notes and create a summary email.
2. Create code For this tip it might help to know some coding, but Bard can definitely be useful for coders. Google has a whole page devoted to Bard's coding abilities.
 But Google also noted that Bard is particularly useful for explaining code snippets or "if you’re learning about programming for the first time, or you need more support to understand what a block of code might output." 3. Get help planning a trip Google says that Bard can help create an itinerary for a vacation based around your interests. The more detail you import that better job it should do a creating the trip that serve you best.
Google is looking into doling out AI-generated life advice Google Chrome will use generative AI to summarize articles School uses ChatGPT to determine which books are banned 3 tips for using Google Maps more effectively, according to Google Apple GPT: Tech giant reportedly working on a ChatGPT, generative AI competitor Tech in 2023 has pretty much been defined by the proliferation of AI chatbots, including Google's Bard, OpenAI's ChatGPT, and Microsoft Bing's chatbot. Mashable has broken down the pros and cons of each — but it's also important to remember that you don't want to share too much with an AI chatbot. They can be vulnerable to hackers and Google itself has warned its employees about sharing too much with AI chatbots.
Topics Artificial Intelligence Tim Marcin is a culture reporter at Mashable, where he writes about food, fitness, weird stuff on the internet, and, well, just about anything else. You can find him posting endlessly about Buffalo wings on Twitter at @ timmarcin.
Loading...
Subscribe TECH SCIENCE LIFE SOCIAL GOOD ENTERTAINMENT BEST PRODUCTS DEALS About Mashable Contact Us We're Hiring Newsletters Sitemap About Ziff Davis Privacy Policy Terms of Use Advertise Accessibility Do Not Sell My Personal Information AdChoices
