Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VentureBeat Special Issue — The future of the data center: Handling greater and greater demands July 20, 2023 The future of the data center: Handling greater and greater demands Presented with In this issue… Unlocking the power of data centers: High-performance computing for everyone Maximizing data center performance by getting cloud migration right How high-performance computing at the edge fuels AI, AR/VR, cybersecurity and more Why — and how — high-performance computing technology is coming to your data center (sponsored) Designing for safety: 10 cybersecurity priorities for a zero-trust data center Case study: Cybersecurity, hybrid cloud spur St. Joseph’s Health data center upgrade Reimagining the data center for the age of generative AI The retail data center: From autonomous checkout to data-driven insights, HPC is key Companies, regardless of size, are facing an unprecedented influx of data, compelling them to seek innovative solutions to handle and leverage it effectively. Consequently, high-performance computing (HPC) has proven indispensable for various essential functions, such as ensuring smooth app logins, running algorithms to bolster system security and utilizing computer vision to track retail floor spaces.
In this special issue, we delve into the surging adoption of HPC and explore the emergent forces propelling high-performance capabilities. Notably, we shed light on the growing significance of data-hungry large language models (LLMs) in the realm of AI development, as they become increasingly omnipresent.
Our focus goes beyond the present to envision the future of the data center. As companies strive to meet the expectations of their partners and end-users, the evolving landscape demands innovative approaches to deliver seamless and robust services. This issue presents insights into how companies are adapting their data centers to thrive in this dynamic environment.
— Aliyah Mohammed Associate Managing Editor Unlocking the power of data centers: High-performance computing for everyone Shubham Sharma To handle the calculations demanded by next-gen workloads quickly and effectively, enterprises need massively parallel computing (MPP) in their data centers. MPP is a technique used in high-performance computing (HPC) that takes a complex task (like querying a complex database) and breaks it down into many smaller tasks, which then run on separate nodes working simultaneously. The results are combined to get the final output.
While GPU-based acceleration meets workload demands across various sectors, it can’t be fully effective unless certain limitations are addressed.
READ MORE Maximizing data center performance by getting cloud migration right Louis Columbus How high-performance computing at the edge fuels AI, AR/VR, cybersecurity and more Victor Dey Why — and how — high-performance computing technology is coming to your data center Ravi Kuppuswamy, AMD No longer the domain of a few select fields, industries from financial trading to the advertising ecosystem rely on large-scale mathematically intensive computations.
READ MORE Sponsored Handling Greater Demands in the Data Center with Kamran Ziaee, Verizon Designing for safety: 10 cybersecurity priorities for a zero-trust data center Louis Columbus Case study: Cybersecurity, hybrid cloud spur St. Joseph’s Health data center upgrade Taryn Plumb Reimagining the data center for the age of generative AI Shubham Sharma Handling Greater Demands in the Data Center with Ken Spangler, FedEx The retail data center: From autonomous checkout to data-driven insights, HPC is key Taryn Plumb “Piecing together the alphabet soup of proliferating regulations and translating it into clear and consistent requirements is a top priority and challenge for organizations.” READ MORE Join the VentureBeat Community NEWSLETTERS NEWSLETTERS Connect with VentureBeat Transform Technology Summits GamesBeat Insider Series VB Live Webinars VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
