Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VentureBeat Special Issue — The CIO agenda: The 2023 roadmap for IT leaders January 26, 2023 The CIO agenda: The 2023 roadmap for IT leaders Presented with In this issue… The CIO agenda in 2023: Driving growth and transformation How robotic process automation (RPA) can drive enterprise productivity Demystifying the metaverse: How CIOs can keep it real Accelerating AI for growth: The key role of infrastructure ( sponsored ) Making security invisible with adaptive access management How automation, low code/no code can fight the talent shortage Buy or build? How to make the best decision in an economic downturn How CIOs can drive identity-based security awareness Securing a dynamic future for APIs and enterprise integration If running an enterprise is a road race, the CIO is the one in charge of keeping the car running, the racetrack clear and in good racing condition, and ensuring everyone — the drivers, the crews and the crowd — stay safe.
As we’ll find in this issue, CIOs have a dotted line to every business leader — including the CEO, CFO, CMO and others — each of whom is being asked to do more with less in this recessionary environment.
The roads have been wet and bumpy so far in 2023. Between fears of a recession, hybrid work, quiet quitting, ongoing digital transformation to replace legacy tech, cybercrime-as-a-service and all the hype around artificial intelligence, there are plenty of potential roadblocks and pit stops ahead.
Is your crew in top condition to handle whatever 2023 kicks up on the road ahead? This special issue starts the new year with a road map to help CIOs impress the board and stakeholders by getting the most value from data analytics, cloud platforms and even the metaverse. It also looks at how AI and automation can help achieve sustainability, overcome biases, address supply chain challenges, enforce security through the tech stack and more.
Buckle up. We have a race to win.
— Matt Marshall CEO and Editor-in-Chief The CIO agenda in 2023: Driving growth and transformation Sharon Goldman The pressure is on for CIOs in 2023. Amid fears of inflation and economic recession, they are being called upon to drive growth and transformation, not just keep the data center humming and enterprise software running.
“It’s about ‘show me the money,’” Janelle Hill, chief of research for Gartner’s CIO practice, told VentureBeat. After a decade of investing in digital, she explained, organizations want to know the value of their investments. At the same time, they want to accelerate digital initiatives such as artificial intelligence and hyperautomation — and ensure security and privacy across an expanding attack surface.
READ MORE “ The most successful CIOs are going to be able to balance and collaborate with other members of the C-suite to drive meaningful outcomes for the entire organization.
“ — Jane Zhu, CIO of Veritas Technologies How robotic process automation (RPA) can drive enterprise productivity Victor Dey Demystifying the metaverse: How CIOs can keep it real Victor Dey Making security invisible with adaptive access management Louis Columbus Accelerating AI for growth: The key role of infrastructure Nidhi Chappell, Microsoft, and Manuvir Das, Nvidia In 2023, many CIOs will focus on finding the best way to grow AI production at scale to create value and business growth. An end-to-end, “AI first” environment provides the standardization, cost management and governance required for fast and orderly expansion.
READ MORE Sponsored “Most CIOs today know the “why” of AI. It’s time to make “how” a strategic priority.” How automation, low code/no code can fight the talent shortage Louis Columbus Facing a severe ongoing labor shortage, CIOs are looking to low-code and no-code platforms to ease the workloads in their departments.
READ MORE Buy or build? How to make the best decision in an economic downturn Shubham Sharma The economic downturn is here. With much of the attention on reducing cash burn, questions about technology investments have become ripe. Some think IT spending will take a hit (just like everything else), while others predict it will be recession-proof.
READ MORE How CIOs can drive identity-based security awareness Louis Columbus Securing a dynamic future for APIs and enterprise integration Louis Columbus Join the VentureBeat Community NEWSLETTERS NEWSLETTERS Connect with VentureBeat Transform Technology Summits GamesBeat Insider Series VB Live Webinars VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
