Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VentureBeat Special Issue: How data privacy is transforming marketing October 18, 2022 How data privacy is transforming marketing Presented with Treasure Data In this issue… Marketing in the era of data growth and privacy What the end of third-party cookies means for personalization Navigating marketing with a focus on data privacy and compliance Putting privacy first: A global approach to data governance (sponsored) The new meaning of PII — can you ever be anonymous? Is privacy only for the elite? Why Apple’s approach is a marketing advantage How privacy-enhancing technology is securing first-party data How AI taps data to make ecommerce more dynamic Data privacy is expensive — here’s how to manage costs Data privacy isn’t the domain of just IT departments, CISOs or the compliance officers. Volumes of customer data are collected and analyzed by marketing teams every day. New technology — often driven by artificial intelligence and automation — offer new ways to target potential customers, personalize messaging, set pricing, recommend products and predict behavior.
Data is, as it’s often quoted, the new oil, and the highly valued commodity needs to be protected as do the individuals who provide it. And because data is flowing much faster oil, it also brings new levels of privacy concerns — concerns that marketing teams need to address. Data privacy regulations also loom large and global companies are faced with increasing data challenges.
Data-driven marketing is hardly new, but it’s changing as fast as the volume of data is growing.
We hope you find the articles by VentureBeat’s staff writers as valuable as the data you’re collecting, analyzing, storing and putting into action as the oil that drives your marketing plans.
— Dan Muse Managing Editor and Content Director Marketing in the era of data growth and privacy Sharon Goldman In an era of data privacy, what’s a marketer to do? Experts recommend new technologies that maximize conversion while keeping data private.
READ MORE “ I think for the first time in 10 years, we see marketers second-guessing whether or not one-to-one communication and personalization is actually what they should strive for any longer.
” — Samrat Sharma, PwC What the end of third-party cookies means for personalization Taryn Plumb How to navigate marketing with a focus on data privacy and compliance Shubham Sharma Putting privacy first: A global approach to data governance Treasure Data Sponsored The new meaning of PII — can you ever be anonymous? Tim Keary While managing PII in a way that’s compliant with international and domestic data protection regulations can be challenging, enterprises can mitigate the risks by periodically testing whether their users’ personal data can be re-identified.
READ MORE “Privacy should be integrated into the design of new products and services while trying to balance legitimate business interests.” — Criss Bradbury, Deloitte Is privacy only for the elite? Why Apple’s approach is a marketing advantage Ashleigh Hollowell While a burgeoning divide shows it is more difficult for the everyday person to take advantage of their data privacy, companies are also struggling with how to approach it as regulations change. Some companies like Apple are using privacy as a marketing point.
READ MORE Why privacy-enhancing technologies may be the future of adtech Sharon Goldman Privacy-enhancing technologies (PETs) allow different parties to share and collaborate on sensitive information while preserving privacy and ensuring compliance.
READ MORE How AI taps data to make ecommerce more dynamic Victor Dey Data privacy is expensive — here’s how to manage costs Sri Krishna Join the VentureBeat Community NEWSLETTERS NEWSLETTERS Connect with VentureBeat Transform Technology Summits GamesBeat Insider Series VB Live Webinars VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
