Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VentureBeat Special Issue: Intelligent Security March 3, 2022 Intelligent Security Presented with Darktrace In this issue… AI-powered intelligent security makes the hybrid enterprise possible How AI-powered XDR can secure the hybrid workforce AI brings greater resilience to self-healing endpoints Why zero-trust security tops VPN for remote work — using AI 10 ways analytics improves endpoint security and asset management Why analytics are core to any endpoint security business case Predicting the future of AI and analytics in endpoint security Tipping the scales: Hardening your cyber defenses by thinking like your attacker (sponsored) Security and IT teams have been battling threats to their infrastructure and data for as long as there have been security and IT teams. But just as technology has evolved to not only support business but drive business, the bad actors have evolved, too. They seem to be in lock-step — or maybe even a step ahead at times — with even the most advanced security pros. COVID-19 forced enterprises to move to a hybrid model and a distributed workforce has only made the CISO’s job of securing endpoints more challenging.
In this report on Intelligent Security, we dive into how and why enterprises must use artificial intelligence and machine learning to thwart increasingly sophisticated attacks.
— Dan Muse, content director and managing editor AI-powered intelligent security makes the hybrid enterprise possible Kyle Alspach For countless companies around the world, being able to keep business going with a remote or hybrid workforce during the pandemic has been essential. While the cybersecurity challenges of having workers in the home have been massive, the use of advanced AI, machine learning and deep learning technologies in many security tools has been among the key factors in making this all possible.
READ MORE Intelligent security has played an essential part in making the past two years possible for businesses.
How AI-powered XDR can secure the hybrid workforce Kyle Alspach AI brings greater resilience to self-healing endpoint Louis Columbus Why zero-trust security tops VPN for remote work — using AI Kyle Alspach 10 ways analytics improves endpoint security and asset management Louis Columbus Achieving greater visibility and control over endpoints is table stakes for any organization pursuing zero-trust security. Human and machine identities are the new security perimeter in any network, and protecting those identities with data-driven insights and intelligence is one of the highest priorities for CISOs today.
READ MORE Analytics is defining the future of endpoint protection platforms and is the differentiator all vendors are looking to strengthen today.
Why analytics are core to any endpoint security business case Louis Columbus While the initial goal of creating a business case for investing in endpoint security is to gain funding, the rigor of quantifying the costs and benefits often identifies large gaps in endpoint security coverage and security. It’s also invaluable for capturing the figure of lost endpoints, which is something few companies have a 100% visibility into today.
READ MORE How AI protects machine identities in a zero-trust world Louis Columbus Machine identities’ complexity makes them a challenge to secure at scale and over their lifecycles, further complicating CISOs’ efforts to secure them as part of their zero-trust security strategies. It’s the most urgent problem many enterprises need to address, however, as just one compromised machine identity can bring an entire enterprise network down.
READ MORE Relying on AI, ML, and analytics to improve endpoint visibility and control isn’t optional anymore. Bad actors and cybercriminals automating their attacks using AI and machine learning can generate thousands of attempts a second — far more than the best cybersecurity analyst teams can keep up with.
Predicting the future of AI and analytics in endpoint security Louis Columbus Tipping the scales: Hardening your cyber defenses by thinking like your attacker Darktrace Sponsored Join the VentureBeat Community NEWSLETTERS NEWSLETTERS Connect with VentureBeat Transform Technology Summits GamesBeat Insider Series VB Live Webinars VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
