Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Special Issue: AI and Security Note from the Editor Both AI and cybersecurity are nearly omnipresent in our daily lives, and the intersection of the two is of increasing importance as our world becomes more connected, more “intelligent,” and more reliant on online or automated systems. AI technology can impact existing problems in cybersecurity, national security, physical safety, and even media consumption.
The threats are sometimes more sophisticated than ever — but often not. As attack and defense systems evolve, the need for human expertise becomes more imperative — not less. And some of the seemingly most onerous threats, like deepfakes and the increasing presence of AI-powered cameras, have practical and political solutions.
The technology is evolving, and so are the threats.
–Dan Muse, managing editor and content director In this issue Is AI cybersecurity’s salvation or its greatest threat? AI in cybersecurity is helping defend against a rising tide of attacks. But some fear unintended consequences when bad actors seize the same tools.
Chris O’Brien AI, automation, and the cybersecurity skills gap Key players from the cybersecurity industry discuss how they’re addressing the talent shortage and what role AI is playing in it.
Paul Sawers Deepfakes and deep media: A new security battleground As deepfakes become more sophisticated, it’ll take equally sophisticated detectors to spot and remove them. Here’s the work on the cutting edge.
Kyle Wiggers The persistent humanity in AI and cybersecurity Even as AI technology transforms some aspects of cybersecurity, the intersection of the two remains profoundly human — attacker, target, and defender.
Seth Colaner When car and home AI cameras see everything, are we truly more secure? The potential safety and security benefits of home and automotive cameras are clearer today than ever before, but the risks have never been greater.
Jeremy Horwitz How AI is fighting — and could enable — ransomware attacks on cities Ransomware is increasingly targeting cities, public utilities, and institutions. AI can improve defenses — or sharpen attacks.
Khari Johnson Podcast: Can AI fix broken IoT and smart security? Host John Koetsier sits down with Cujo AI’s Marcio Avillez to discuss how AI can fight new threats emerging in the smart home.
John Koetsier Sponsored To protect people, we need a different type of machine learning Cybersecurity needs to focus on people, given that the majority of data breaches are now caused by human error, but traditional ML isn’t equipped to account for the complexities of human relationships and behaviors across organizations over time.
Ed Bishop, Tessian Guest Real-world AI threats in cybersecurity aren’t science fiction People are often worried about the kinds of AI threats you see in science fiction, but the real threats from AI are plenty frightening.
Adam Kujawa, Malwarebytes Guest AI can be an ally in cybersecurity Although there are clear reasons for concern around AI and cybersecurity, AI is presently more of a help to defenders than a threat.
Mikko Hypponen, F-Secure McAfee CTO: How AI is changing both cybersecurity and cyberattacks McAfee CTO Steve Grobman is using AI to detect all kinds of cyberattacks. But so are the hackers orchestrating the attacks.
Dean Takahashi For more, visit our AI Channel Check out our previous Special Issue: Power in AI document.addEventListener(‘click’, function (event) {if (!event.target.matches(‘.article__author’)) return;event.preventDefault();window.location.href = event.target.dataset.authorLink}, false); VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
