Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages OpenAI adds ‘huge set’ of ChatGPT updates, including suggested prompts, multiple file uploads Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Credit: VentureBeat made with Midjourney Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Even while users and researchers continue to debate how the performance of ChatGPT has changed over time , OpenAI is not letting up on adding new features to its signature generative AI chatbot product.
This week, Logan Kilpatrick, OpenAI’s first developer advocate and developer relations expert, posted on X (formerly Twitter) that a “huge set of ChatGPT updates are rolling out over the next week.” Among the new features Kilpatrick highlighted are example prompts (already visible for the author, see screenshot below), suggested replies and follow-up questions (which Kilpatrick wrote is “very useful to reduce fatigue”), a default GPT-4 setting so that paying ChatGPT Plus subscribers don’t have to toggle on the latest/most advanced publicly available OpenAI large language model (LLM) every time they start a new chat, support for multiple file uploads when using the OpenAI Code Interpreter plugin , and more.
Huge set of ChatGPT updates are rolling out over the next week ?? 1. Example prompts: No more staring at a blank page! 2. Suggested replies: ChatGPT automatically synthesizes follow up questions. I’ve been using this the last month and it is very useful to reduce fatigue.… The initial reaction from users was mixed. While some praised the new features, including GPT-4 by default and one that allows users to “stay logged in” beyond the previous two-week period, others on the OpenAI and ChatGPT subreddit communities on Reddit asked , “Is it going to stop apologizing too? I sure hope so.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Some even went so far as to criticize the addition of example prompts as being “terrible for someone with ADHD,” because they are distracting.
Still, it is early on in the addition of the new features, and it remains to be seen which of them users will ultimately adopt and use most in their workflows, and which fail to see uptake or are rejected in the long run.
The new features also come amid reports that OpenAI has filed a trademark application with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) for GPT-5, the next LLM in its ongoing series, and that the application includes possible features such as “the artificial production of human speech and text,” and “translation text or speech from one language to another.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
