Toggle Navigation News Events TNW Conference 2024 June 20 & 21, 2024 TNW Vision: 2024 All events Spaces Programs Newsletters Partner with us Jobs Contact News news news news Latest Deep tech Sustainability Ecosystems Data and security Fintech and ecommerce Future of work More Startups and technology Investors and funding Government and policy Corporates and innovation Gadgets & apps Early bird Business passes are 90% SOLD OUT 🎟️ Buy now before they are gone → This article was published on May 22, 2023 Data and security EU fines Meta record €1.2B as feud over data transfers to the US escalates Meta said it sets 'a dangerous precedent' In a seminal moment for international data flows, the EU has fined Meta a record-breaking €1.2bn for privacy violations.
The penalty is the largest ever for a violation of GDPR, which was introduced to protect personal information. According to EU regulators, Meta broke the rules by transferring user data from the bloc to the US for processing.
The Facebook owner made these transfers on the basis of standard contractual clauses (SCCs), which govern the flow of personal data. But an EU investigation determined that SCCs don’t provide enough protection from US surveillance.
Andrea Jelinek, chair of the European Data Protection Board, called the infringement “very serious” because the transfers were systematic, repetitive, and continuous.
The <3 of EU tech The latest rumblings from the EU tech scene, a story from our wise ol' founder Boris, and some questionable AI art. It's free, every week, in your inbox. Sign up now! “Facebook has millions of users in Europe, so the volume of personal data transferred is massive,” she said. “The unprecedented fine is a strong signal to organisations that serious infringements have far-reaching consequences.” Meta called the fine “unjustified and unnecessary” and said it would appeal the ruling.
Data borders The intervention could prove pivotal for data transfers more broadly. Lawmakers in the EU and US are currently developing a new transatlantic Data Privacy Framework that would clarify the requirements for moving information across borders.
Nick Clegg, Meta’s head of global affairs, said the new ruling had disregarded the progress being made on this issue. He called it “a dangerous precedent” for data transfers that imperils the foundations of an open internet.
“Without the ability to transfer data across borders, the internet risks being carved up into national and regional silos, restricting the global economy and leaving citizens in different countries unable to access many of the shared services we have come to rely on,” said Clegg.
Naturally, Clegg has a vested interest in easing data flows to the US, but he’s not alone in wanting the removal of digital borders. According to Janine Regan, Legal Director for Data Protection at law firm Charles Russell Speechlys , there’s political agreement on both sides of the Atlantic to resolve the issue.
“ It’s likely that an alternative transfer mechanism will be ready over the summer so that Meta does not have to completely suspend transatlantic transfers, but this will be little consolation for a company facing such a record-breaking fine,” she said.
Dangerous times for data violations The new ruling also serves as a warning to other companies that transfer data. Chris Linnell, Principal Data Protection Consultant at cyber security firm Bridewell called it “a stark reminder” that SSCs alone don’t adequately protect personal data.
He advised all organisations to undertake transfer risk assessments when processing personal data outside of the EU. In addition, he recommends regular ongoing reviews of compliance and potential risks to data subjects.
“Ultimately, contracts in place between parties will not act as a safeguard when recipient organisations have their own legal obligations to fulfil when it comes to national surveillance laws, such as FISA in the United States,” said Linnel.
Story by Thomas Macaulay Senior reporter Thomas is a senior reporter at TNW. He covers European tech, with a focus on deeptech, startups, and government policy.
Thomas is a senior reporter at TNW. He covers European tech, with a focus on deeptech, startups, and government policy.
Get the TNW newsletter Get the most important tech news in your inbox each week.
Also tagged with Privacy Data Facebook Story by Thomas Macaulay Popular articles 1 Musk mulls removing X, formerly Twitter, from EU to dodge disinformation laws 2 TikTok complies with EU demands against Israel-Hamas disinformation 3 German anti-racism agency quits X amid Israel-Hamas disinformation wave 4 EU online piracy on the rise as consumers feel the pinch 5 Ukraine’s fight against disinformation is creating a new startup sector Related Articles data security UK plan to police internet may be unlawful, force Wikipedia shutdown data security UK’s promise to protect encrypted messaging is ‘delusional,’ say critics Join TNW All Access Watch videos of our inspiring talks for free → deep tech This smart ring claims to be the lightest ever — and the first with haptic navigation data security New deal on EU-US data flows sparks privacy fears and business uncertainty The heart of tech More TNW Media Events Programs Spaces Newsletters Jobs in tech About TNW Partner with us Jobs Terms & Conditions Cookie Statement Privacy Statement Editorial Policy Masthead Copyright © 2006—2023, The Next Web B.V. Made with <3 in Amsterdam.
