Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Q&A site Quora releases its highly anticipated Android app Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The question of when Quora will finally release its Android app has finally been answered. It's today. Quora for Android landed in Google's Play store and the Amazon appstore.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
The question of when Quora will finally release its Android app has finally been answered. It’s today.
Quora for Android landed in Google’s Play store and the Amazon appstore.
The new Android app allows you to do almost everything you can on the site (such as answer questions, comment, or rate answers), but it’s tailored for the reading experience on mobile. On the new app, you’ll see the top answers pop-up on your home screen, and you can flip into landscape mode to browse content in the way that’s comfortable for you — a particularly cool feature for Android tablet users.
It’s is a major step for the company, which sees about a quarter of its traffic coming through mobile devices. As you can see from this Quora post , users have been asking for the app for quite some time. As product designer Anne K. Halsall explained in this thread, “Ramping up development takes time,” adding, “We would like to iterate and learn from the iPhone app first.” The app is the handiwork of the startup’s new mobile team, which has been plugging away for the better part of the summer.
Quora, a Silicon Valley-based knowledge-sharing site, is the brainchild of two high-ranking Facebookers: the social network’s first chief technology officer, Adam D’Angelo, and Charlie Cheever, who oversaw the creation of Facebook Connect. In May, it raised $50 million in a round led by Facebook board member Peter Thiel.
Photo credit: milos milosevic /Flickr VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
