Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Creatio: Low-code/no-code can boost digital transformation efforts Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Businesses face many challenges with digital transformation, but 43% of digital and IT leaders said the core barrier to digital transformation is a lack of skilled resources, according to the State of Low-Code/No-Code 2021 Report from Creatio , a provider of low-code platform for customer relationship management and process management.
Creatio said low-code/no-code technology can bridge the talent gap.
Above: Highlights from the report show that only up to 10% of business processes are fully automated.
Coming out of the COVID pandemic, digital transformation/acceleration is something that has risen to the top of the priority list for companies of all sizes and across all industries. Yet, for all the talk about digital transformation, companies are finding it a challenge to execute as so much of it depends on traditional IT and software/application development (IT resources, developers, data scientists — talent in high demand and low supply).
Underpinned by a survey of 1,000+ IT, digital, and business leaders within Creatio’s global network, Creatio’s State of Low-Code/No-Code 2021 Report uncovers the challenges of digital transformation facing businesses and the role low-code/no-code technology can play to accelerate automation and bridge the ever-widening IT talent gap.
Above: Another finding from the report: 95% of digital and IT leaders said low-code/no-code development is faster than traditional development.
The report shows that 43% of respondents say that lack of skilled resources is the core barrier to digital transformation. With 95% of respondents saying they plan to continue their digital transformation initiatives in progress in 2021, the lack of skilled resources is a growing problem. Of these digital and IT leaders, there is support for the adoption of low-code/no-code technology to bridge this gap and empower business users without coding skills to automate processes and build/customize applications.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! While momentum for low-code/no-code is growing, the solution finds itself faced with challenges of its own. Surprisingly, currently, only 6% of low-code development is done by business users without any IT involvement and 60% claim a lack of experience with low-code platforms is the biggest obstacle in low-code adoption. This signals significant room for better training and opportunity to further flatten the traditional IT hierarchy where IT plays a role in governance, but users of low-code platforms are empowered to make/implement business process decisions on their own without layers of management approvals and requests getting bottlenecked in IT backlogs for months.
Read Creatio’s full report The State of Low-Code/No-Code.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
