Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Webinar Breaking into tech: How coding bootcamps lead to today’s most coveted jobs (webinar) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Join us for this live webinar on Thursday, October 15 at 10 a.m. Pacific, 1 p.m. Eastern.
Register here for free.
With consumers constantly searching to satisfy their technological hunger, the pace of the tech boom is unrelenting.
 So it’s no surprise there’s an incredibly high demand for qualified programmers. However, despite the potential for meteoric tech career paths, not everyone knows how to get their foot in the door.
That’s starting to change thanks to the emergence of specialized bootcamps dedicated to teaching aspirants how to become a competent programmer in as little time as six months.
Jordan Collier , who switched jobs from a Chick-fil-A employee to a programmer for Allstate, owes his annual $90,000 income to enrolling in these coding bootcamps. Collier isn’t the only one experiencing success, as a study conducted by Course Report showed 75 percent of graduates found full-time employment with an average salary increase of 44 percent — encouraging results for anyone afraid their hard word and dedication will be for not in the end.
Enrolling in a coding bootcamp doesn’t just raise your chances of being hired in the tech industry by a significant margin, it also prepares you for the long road ahead as a developer. Whether you develop for web or mobile, you’ll need the necessary hands-on experience and guidance in order to grow as a computer programmer — which is something that’s not easy to grasp if you head down the self-taught route. For an industry that can turn on a dime, there’s no skill more valuable than knowing how to roll with the latest technological advancement.
Join Dave Paola , Cofounder and CTO of Bloc , and Prasid Pathak , Bloc’s Director of Marketing, in this insightful webinar hosted by VentureBeat’s Wendy Schuchart.
 This webinar will dive into the benefits of enrolling in a coding bootcamp and why it may be your best chance for entering the tech business, elaborate on online and one-on-one mentor led programs — and the career support that’s provided — as well as show you how to present your ideas to tech companies so they’ll be embraced and implemented. Soon, the alluring fantasy of becoming a computer programer will transform from pipe dream to reality.
Don’t miss out! Register here for free.
In this webinar, you’ll: Gain insight into what skills you’ll need to get ahead in the tech field Learn how to leverage your great idea into the next billion dollar project Research the next step for your future in coding, whether you want to build apps, games or mobile-driven on-demand services.
Speakers: Dave Paola, Cofounder & CTO, Bloc Prasid Pathak, Director of Marketing, Bloc Moderator: Wendy Schuchart, Analyst, VentureBeat This webinar is sponsored by Bloc.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
