Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Jobs How to ask for more money as a software developer Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn As tech redundancies continue to hit the headlines, it’s not exactly a straightforward time to ask for a salary increase. Throughout 2023, organizations of all sizes have streamlined products and services, cutting developer roles that were previously thought as untouchable.
If 2022 was defined by cuts in customer success, HR, product and talent acquisition, much of 2023 has been hugely focused on engineering teams.
Despite this, software developer roles continue to be in high demand, particularly for those with expertise in data science, AI, machine learning and blockchain technology. The value good software developers can bring is still unarguable.
Whether you’ve taken on more responsibility in a leaner team or you’re in an organization that is fully thriving, it could very well be the right time to ask for more compensation.
Here’s what to ask yourself before scheduling that meeting.
1. Does the organization have a standardized review policy? Some companies like to conduct reviews in a particular month of the year, while for others it’s centered around the time each individual employee started with the organization.
Ask HR if you’re uncertain, and be prepared in time for the designated month or your work anniversary. Asking for an early review will add to your manager’s workload and may not help your case.
2. Why do you deserve a salary increase? You don’t need a snappy 30-second pitch prepared, but do have a list of achievements and positive feedback ready to support your case.
Be able to talk about them conversationally, and if your manager is happy to recommend a salary raise for you, follow up with a thank-you email, and include these bullet points to make their job that bit easier.
3. What are your manager’s pain points? Speaking of making your manager’s job easier, if you meet hesitation or resistance in your review meeting, take this as an opportunity to probe further. You may discover the amazing achievements you’ve focused on are not a current business priority, and there may be an area where you can add more value.
Let’s say you could automate a process that normally takes your manager a few hours a month, this could really help further your case and bolster goodwill overall.
4. Are you open to other perks and benefits in lieu of a cash increase? Depending on how your organization is doing, there may be a freeze on salary increases. Think of what perks and benefits you might settle for in lieu of cold hard cash. In start-ups and scale-ups, equity may cost your employer little to give now, but may pay dividends to you in the future.
Or perhaps unlimited PTO, a condensed work week, Summer Fridays or prepaid gift or credit cards may appeal.
5. Have you researched a benchmark? On the VentureBeat Job Board , you can search by job title, keywords and region. Use this to get a sense of what similar jobs are being offered elsewhere, and go in with a realistic and well-deserved figure.
If your efforts to land a salary increase are not rewarded, and you think it’s time to move on, visit the VentureBeat Job Board, bookmark it and check in weekly to see what’s being offered in your area of expertise.
Here are a few! Accounting Data, Reporting & Automation Manager Circle, Chicago, IL/remote Global financial technology firm Circle is seeing an exceptional Accounting Data, Reporting & Automation Manager to be a manager-level individual contributor. Experience in both data automation and accounting operations is required, and the successful candidate will partner with accounting and cross-functional team members to implement automated solutions as the business scales. Identifying data and and reporting solutions to automate accounting reconciliation supporting month-end close, stable coin activity reconciliation and key financial reports are the key responsibilities of this role. Seven-plus years’ of accounting experience in data analytics within an accounting department is outlined as important, as is experience with database design, an understanding of complex data schema and data extraction. This role is open to remote applicants.
Find out more here.
Software Architect, Rosen Group, Columbus, OH Founded in Switzerland in 1981, Rosen now has bases in Germany and Columbus. A research and product development company that’s privately family-owned, the group is now hiring a Software Architect.
 Advertised as “hybrid remote”, there is an expectation to live in Columbus, Ohio, as the successful applicant will be leading the Columbus Creation team with interaction across all North American locations. Creating a vision and solution architect for the product is key to this role, as is designing for extensibility, and solving targeted use cases with optimal technical approaches. Proven experience as a Software Solutions Architect is required, as is a Bachelor’s degree in computer science, software engineering or a related field.
See more about this position here.
Solutions Engineer — AI GRC, Holistic AI, Remote Holistic AI helps organizations monitor and manage Governance Risk and Compliance (GRC) for AI, ensuring use of AI is ethical, responsible, and compliant with regulations. Currently experiencing huge growth, this innovative company is seeking a dynamic and talented Solutions Engineer.
 This new role is crucial in the sales process, and the successful candidate will combine technical expertise with exceptional communication skills. Working side-by-side with sales, the successful candidate will deliver engaging demonstrations, engineer cutting-edge solutions, and serve as a technical advisor to clients.
Apply for this remote role here.
New jobs are added to the VentureBeat Job Board every week, browse opportunities here.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
