Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Transform Innovation Showcase winner: Unstructured.io Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Enterprises today have vast amounts of unstructured data scattered across numerous environments.
The “dirty secret,” according to Unstructred.io founder and CEO Bryan Raymond, is that data scientists are often still processing all that data exactly as they were doing 20 years ago, typically by manually building pre-processing guidelines.
“Data scientists hate pre-processing,” he told the audience at VentureBeat Transform 2023. “It’s like going to the dentist.” Unstructured.io, which uses natural language to transform data from its raw form to learning-ready, was selected as Most Likely to Succeed at the Innovation Showcase at VentureBeat Transform 2023.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Connecting data to LLMs Raymond described his company’s platform as an ETL — extract, transform and load — for large language models (LLMs).
“We like to think of ourselves as top of tunnel,” he said.
Unstructured.io connects data to LLMs and uses a variety of technologies — including computer vision , natural language processing (NLP) and Python scripts — to extract complexity.
The unstructured data is curated, cleaned of artifacts and made LLM-ready, Raymond explained. This is a simpler and faster strategy and data scientists don’t have to write hundreds of lines of parsing code.
Clean, structured data can be elusive The tool’s enterprise API enables browser workflows for all types of developers, and supports pre-processing of more than 25 file types and thousands of formats in more than 100 languages, said Raymond. It is available as a free API, as a Google Colab notebook and on GitHub, where its library provides open-source components for pre-processing text documents such as PDFs, HTML and Word documents.
Raymond said he came up with the idea for the company after being “stuck in data engineering hell” at a previous employer. Just getting clean, structured data took years, he said.
Unstructured.io was founded in 2022 and the company is now “hard at work” on enterprise-grade data connectors that are resistant to interruptions and can detect new file versions and easily parallelize, said Raymond. The company currently has 15 data connectors, and plans to increase to more than 30.
The Innovation Showcase at this year’s VentureBeat Transform highlighted 10 unique companies in the generative AI , machine learning (ML) and analytics spaces. The three winners were Unstructured.io, Arize AI (Best Technology) and Skyflow (Best Presentation Style) , along with seven Honorable Mentions.
>> Follow all our VentureBeat Transform 2023 coverage << VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
