Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Transform Innovation Showcase winner: Arize AI Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
There are many companies innovating in the generative AI , machine learning (ML) and analytics spaces. Ten were nominated at the Innovation Showcase at this year’s VentureBeat Transform. Ultimately, three winners were selected in three categories: Best Presentation Style, Best Technology and Most Likely to Succeed.
For Best Technology, judges chose Arize AI , an ML observability platform that uses AI to troubleshoot AI. Cofounder and CEO Jason Lopatecki described the company’s Observe Copilot as an observability assistant for AI and ML scientists that allows them to monitor, troubleshoot and fine-tune large language models (LLMs) and generative, recommender, machine learning (ML), computer vision and natural language processing (NLP) models.
>> Follow all our VentureBeat Transform 2023 coverage << Lopatecki explained that the typical data troubleshooting process has been manual and tedious. But Arize AI’s platform, which integrates with OpenAI, features a centralized model health hub that automatically surfaces potential issues around performance and data.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Immediate remediation capabilities Native altering integrations and tracing workflows help users take immediate action and remedy problems, said Lopatecki. “At-a-glance” dashboards visually track and analyze key model performance metrics to ensure the health of models in production.
Furthermore, performance tracing identifies problems and maps them back to the data causing them via deep root cause analysis , and explainability functions indicate how models arrived at particular outcomes. These capabilities can help optimize performance over time and mitigate the potential impacts of model bias, Lopatecki explained.
“To troubleshoot AI, I promise you, is where the future is going,” he told the audience at Transform.
Berkeley-based Arize AI was founded in 2020 and announced a $38 million series B funding round in September 2022. The company’s Observe Copilot rollout follows its recent announcement of Phoenix , an open-source library to monitor LLMs for hallucinations.
The Innovation Showcase at this year’s VentureBeat Transform highlighted 10 unique companies in the generative AI , machine learning (ML) and analytics spaces. The three winners were Arize AI, Skyflow (Best Presentation Style) , and Unstructured.io (Most Like to Succeed) , along with seven Honorable Mentions.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
