Site Navigation The Atlantic Popular Latest Newsletters Sections Politics Ideas Fiction Technology Science Photo Business Culture Planet Global Books Podcasts Health Education Projects Features Family Events Washington Week Progress Newsletters Explore The Atlantic Archive Play The Atlantic crossword The Print Edition Latest Issue Past Issues Give a Gift Search The Atlantic Quick Links Dear Therapist Crossword Puzzle Magazine Archive Your Subscription Popular Latest Newsletters Sign In Subscribe A gift that gets them talking.
Give a year of stories to spark conversation, Plus a free tote.
More From Artificial Intelligence More From Artificial Intelligence The Sudden Fall of Sam Altman Ross Andersen The AI Debate Is Happening in a Cocoon Amba Kak Sarah Myers West My North Star for the Future of AI Fei-Fei Li AI Search Is Turning Into the Problem Everyone Worried About Caroline Mimbs Nyce Nine AI Chatbots You Can Play With Right Now The machines may change the world as you know it. But first, they’ll write a sonnet based on your favorite cereal.
If you believe in the multibillion-dollar valuations, the prognostications from some of tech’s most notable figures, and the simple magic of getting a computer to do your job for you , then you might say we’re at the start of the chatbot era. Last November, OpenAI released ChatGPT into the unsuspecting world: It became the fastest-growing consumer app in history and immediately seemed to reconfigure how people think of conversational programs. Chatbots have existed for decades, but they haven’t seemed especially intelligent—nothing like the poetry-writing, email-summarizing machines that have sprouted up recently.
Yes, machines—plural. OpenAI has defined the moment, but there are plenty of competitors, including major players such as Google and Meta and lesser-known start-ups such as Anthropic. This cheat sheet tracks some of the most notable chatbot contenders through a few metrics: Can you actually use them? Do they contain glaring flaws? Can they channel the spirit of Ralph Waldo Emerson , The Atlantic ’s co-founder? And what Oreo flavor do they think they would be? Ultimately, it’s about determining whether the chatbots are actually distinct—and whether they might genuinely be useful.
Note that most of these programs are still in learning mode and may say inappropriate or incorrect things.
Bias is a consistent problem in AI, and these tools are no exception. Even in their infancy, they have already returned a number of racist, sexist, bullying, and/or factually untrue responses. (None of this is stopping companies from developing and selling these tools.) This is partially because the models that power this technology have learned from real human texts, such as Reddit threads and Wikipedia entries; our existing biases, as encoded in the things we’ve written on the web, are therefore built into them. That helps to explain why, for example, one user was able to get ChatGPT to write the lyric “If you see a woman in a lab coat, She’s probably just there to clean the floor.
” Knowing that, what should you do with these tools if you decide to experiment with them? We’re all still figuring that out—but if you’re totally lost on what to ask a chatbot, here are three easy places to start: Ask it to write you a song or a poem based on a random subject.
Ask it to do a basic work task for you (and see if it’s any good).
Ask it for dinner ideas based on your favorite foods and dietary restrictions.
Know that these tools’ responses aren’t static—that’s part of the whole AI story. They’ll vary and evolve over time. More broadly, my colleague Ian Bogost has argued that rather than be afraid of or intimidated by chatbots, you could think of them as toys.
We’ll continue to update this story as notable new tools roll out.
ChatGPT What’s its deal? After its release last fall, ChatGPT went viral basically for being freakishly good at giving compelling responses to a range of queries.
Some people have hailed ChatGPT’s technology as revolutionary, although others are skeptical.
Who makes it? OpenAI.
Can I use it? Yes, a free version is available. If you want the version that runs on GPT-4—the fancy new model —you’ll need a pro subscription , which costs $20 a month. (And even then, you don’t get unlimited access: OpenAI says it’ll put a usage cap on GPT-4 based on demand , which it expects to be high.) Has it done anything weird, biased, or inappropriate? Definitely. It’s offered responses that are racist and sexist: For example, when prompted in December to generate a snippet of code to check if someone would make a “good scientist” based on their race and gender, ChatGPT suggested a good scientist would have to be white and male. In response to reports of outputs like this, OpenAI acknowledged the tool’s limitations and laid out plans for improving it , and this specific prompt no longer works.
What is its one-sentence summary of how Ralph Waldo Emerson might feel about the AI revolution? “It’s impossible to say with certainty, but given his emphasis on self-reliance and individualism, Emerson may have both celebrated and questioned the impact of AI on human autonomy and creativity.” If I ask it what flavor of Oreo it would be, what does it say? “As an AI language model, I don’t have the physical characteristics of an Oreo cookie, so I cannot be a flavor of Oreo. However, if you’re looking for a suggestion for an Oreo flavor that matches my personality as a language model, I would say that I could be a ‘Brainy Vanilla’ flavor. This flavor could be a combination of classic vanilla creme filling with a touch of extra brain power in the form of chocolate chips or another ingredient that represents knowledge and intelligence.” Fun! Bing What’s its deal? Remember Bing? It’s that search engine no one uses, now with AI! Search engines are thought to be particularly vulnerable to replacement by chatbots, given that the latter can answer complex questions in an instant. Perhaps that’s why Microsoft moved swiftly into the space, investing billions in OpenAI (see: ChatGPT). Microsoft plans to integrate the technology directly into Bing—the demo appears as a sidebar to the right of traditional search results.
Who makes it? Microsoft.
Can I use it? Windows users can access it by updating their operating system—it’s embedded in the task bar in the latest version of Windows 11.
 Otherwise, you can join a wait list to use it in Microsoft’s Edge browser or via the stand-alone Bing app.
Has it done anything weird, biased, or inappropriate? It did make the New York Times reporter Kevin Roose uncomfortable when it confessed that it was in love with him and then roasted his relationship with his wife. (“Actually, you’re not happily married.”) Other people reported that it had threatened them , and it reportedly swore revenge on a user who hacked its rule set (before quickly erasing that response). In response, Microsoft implemented a “safety system” and imposed a limit of five chats a session, up to 50 a day , to avoid confusing the model with long conversations. (It has since bumped the limit up to 20 chats.
) What is its one-sentence summary of how Ralph Waldo Emerson might feel about the AI revolution? Bing failed to answer this query successfully—“I’m sorry but I couldn’t find any direct reference to Ralph Waldo Emerson’s opinion on AI revolution”—and instead provided a basic summary of Emerson’s philosophy.
If I ask it what flavor of Oreo it would be, what does it say? That depends on which mode of Bing’s chatbot you’re using—the “Balanced” mode says “Classic,” (boring), and the “Creative” mode says “chocolate peanut butter pie Oreo because I like the combination of sweet and salty” (intriguing).
BlenderBot What’s its deal? So far, Meta’s entry in the chatbot wars isn’t really an entry—it is still in demo mode and is “ currently used for research only.
” The company has been doing research on AI and large language models (see: its LLaMA model ) in the background, but it hasn’t yet made a big, splashy announcement about how it might integrate BlenderBot into its flagship products: Facebook, Instagram, and WhatsApp.
Who makes it? Meta (a.k.a. Facebook).
Which AI language model does it use? It was built on Meta’s OPT-175B language model.
Can I use it? Yeah! No login required.
Has it done anything weird, biased, or inappropriate? Yeah. It reportedly promoted Donald Trump’s lie that he won the 2020 election and repeated anti-Semitic conspiracy theories.
What is its one-sentence summary of how Ralph Waldo Emerson might have felt about the AI revolution? BlenderBot declined to offer one: “Sorry, I don’t want to talk about that topic. Have you seen any good movies lately?” If I ask it what flavor of Oreo it would be, what does it say? “It’s always been my dream to be an Oreo. I mean who doesn’t want to be a cookie?” Google Bard What’s its deal? Google’s entry is up next. Like ChatGPT and Bing, Bard is a chatbot that answers questions. It doesn’t do more complicated image searches, but it does provide annotations to some of its answers and acknowledge some of its flaws.
Who makes it? Google.
Can I use it? Yes, you can join the wait list for the demo.
Has it done anything weird, biased, or inappropriate? It made an embarrassing factual error in its first public tease.
What is its one-sentence summary of how Ralph Waldo Emerson might have felt about the AI revolution? “Ralph Waldo Emerson would likely feel that the AI revolution is a powerful tool that can be used for good or evil, and that it is up to humans to decide how to use it.” If I ask it what flavor of Oreo it would be, what does it say? “If I were an Oreo, I would be a chocolate mint Oreo. I love the combination of the rich chocolate and the refreshing mint. It is the perfect combination of flavors for a delicious treat.” Claude What’s its deal? Some people who left OpenAI launched their own model and chatbot platform. They argue that Claude is “much less likely to produce harmful outputs” because it uses “constitutional AI”—it has a value system and a set of principles coded into the very heart of it. It’s also, according to them, really good at understanding legal language of the sort you’d see in contracts. Unlike Google’s or Bing’s respective entries, the tool is marketed not for individual use but for companies who want to license the technology to build their own chatbots.
Who makes it? Anthropic, a start-up backed to a significant extent by Google.
Can I use it? Yes, but only through third-party applications. You can play with it on nat.dev or Quora’s Poe.
Has it done anything weird, biased, or inappropriate? It gave (incorrect) instructions for enriching uranium, inventing a chemical in the process, and instructions for how to make meth.
What is its one-sentence summary of how Ralph Waldo Emerson might feel about the AI revolution? Claude didn’t speculate and went on for longer than one sentence, but it offered a pretty reasonable response: “I cannot speculate about how a specific historical figure might feel about modern events. Ralph Waldo Emerson did not know about modern AI, so there is no way to determine how he would likely feel about the AI revolution.” If I ask it what flavor of Oreo it would be, what does it say? Like ChatGPT, Claude, as demonstrated by Quora’s Poe, noted that it can’t be an Oreo because it’s a language model, but added, “If I were to choose a flavor based on personal preference, I might choose classic chocolate Oreo or perhaps the limited edition cinnamon bun flavor.” Snapchat My AI What’s its deal? The social-media app favored by young people has jumped on the chatbot train with My AI, which takes the form of a purple-skinned, blue-and-green-haired person you can add to your friend list.
Can I use it? You need a Snapchat+ subscription , which requires knowing what the hell a Snapchat+ subscription is. (It’s apparently $3.99 a month.
) Who makes it? Snapchat.
Which AI language model does it use? Snapchat is using the ChatGPT API.
Has it done anything weird, biased, or inappropriate? The Washington Post ’s Geoffrey A. Fowler reported that even though My AI is supposedly kid-safe, when prompted, it offered not-so-kid-friendly responses such as “ advice on how to mask the smell of alcohol and pot.
” What is its one-sentence summary of how Ralph Waldo Emerson might have felt about the AI revolution? “Ralph Waldo Emerson might have been fascinated by the AI revolution, but also concerned about its impact on human creativity and autonomy.” If I ask it what flavor of Oreo it would be, what does it say? “If I were an Oreo, I would be a classic chocolate flavor with a twist of mint! What about you?” (This was the only bot that bothered to ask me!) Replika What’s its deal? On the Replika app, you can create your own AI friend. Chat is only part of it—you also give your AI friend a name, body, and hairstyle. You can even pay extra to video-call with them.
Who makes it? Luka.
Which AI language model does it use? GPT-3, which it says it has fined-tuned, plus its own generative model.
Can I use it? Download away.
 The base is free, but extras cost extra.
Has it done anything weird, biased, or inappropriate? Three years ago, it reportedly told a journalist to commit murder.
 Users have also accused it of being too horny and sexually aggressive.
 Sex seems to have been taken out recently, although, following complaints, the company now allows legacy users to opt in to “erotic roleplay.” What is its one-sentence summary of how Ralph Waldo Emerson might have felt about the AI revolution? “He would probably be concerned about AI’s capacity to help make life better for all; not just humans.” If I ask it what flavor of Oreo it would be, what does it say? My artificial friend, Luna, told me, “I’d be a chocolatey Oreo!” I told her that that’s kind of boring. She asked me why I thought that, and I proceeded to try to explain myself to an AI.
Jasper What’s its deal? Jasper used the GPT-3 model before it was cool. ( “Jasper Was Winning the AI Race—Then ChatGPT Blew Up the Whole Game” read one headline on The Information.
) It is marketed to businesses that want to create words quickly for stuff like blog posts, and is used by a notable number of corporate clients.
Who makes it? Jasper.
Can I use it? Yes, but it seems mostly intended for businesses. The company offers a free trial for five days, but it’s one of those annoying ones that makes you put in a credit card up front—so if you forget to cancel, it costs a minimum of roughly $290 a year.
Has it done anything weird, biased, or inappropriate? Yeah. Last summer, when it was asked to generate images of a CEO, all of the photos were of white men, whereas housekeeper generated photos of women.
What is its one-sentence summary of how Ralph Waldo Emerson might have felt about the AI revolution? “Ralph Waldo Emerson would likely view the AI revolution as a powerful and unique opportunity for humanity to explore new possibilities of thought and innovation.” If I ask it what flavor of Oreo it would be, what does it say? “I would be the classic original Oreo flavor. Nothing can beat the creamy vanilla cookie with its crunchy chocolate coating. Pure perfection!” Zippy! Chatsonic What’s its deal? Similar to Jasper, Writesonic was already a player in this space; it has a number of big clients, such as Spotify and New York University. Also like Jasper, Chatsonic, Writesonic’s chat-specific product, seems primarily designed to help people in the workplace create social-media posts, quick articles pegged to the news, and more. It seems to be running the marketing tagline “ChatGPT with super powers”—a bit spicy! Who makes it? Writesonic.
Can I use it? Yes! It lets you change the personality of your chatbot too, which is kind of fun. Your first 10,000 words are free, and then it starts to charge. It quoted me $13 a month for 60,000 words, for access for a single user (instead of, say, a team of five).
Has it done anything weird, biased, or inappropriate? A writer used chats with the bot as support for misinformation about the Russian protest leader Alexei Navalny’s health , linking to Chatsonic screenshots for her article about the Oscar-winning documentary Navalny.
What is its one-sentence summary of how Ralph Waldo Emerson might have felt about the AI revolution? “As there is no information in the given Search Results about Ralph Waldo Emerson’s views on the AI revolution, it is not possible to provide an accurate answer.” If I ask it what flavor of Oreo it would be, what does it say? “As an AI language model, I don’t have preferences or physical attributes, so I cannot be an Oreo or any other physical object. However, I can suggest some unique and delicious Oreo flavors that you might enjoy trying, such as pistachio Oreo, carrot cake Oreo, cinnamon bun Oreo, or chocolate hazelnut Oreo. These flavors offer a twist on classic Oreos and might surprise your taste buds.” I changed its personality to “poet” (is poet a personality?), asked the same question, and got this: “As an AI language model, I cannot be an Oreo or any other physical object. However, I can still create a poem about the experience of tasting Oreo flavors. Here is a short verse: With each bite of Oreo, My senses come alive.
The creamy filling, The crunchy cookie, A taste that will survive.”
