Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages IBM, which invested in Hugging Face, launches $500M enterprise AI venture fund Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
IBM, which in August took part in a $235 million series D funding round for open source AI platform Hugging Face , announced today that it is planning to invest more in enterprise AI-focused startups — much more. It is launching a $500 million venture fund that will invest “in a range of AI companies – from early-stage to hyper-growth startups – focused on accelerating generative AI technology and research for the enterprise.” Commitment to ‘responsible AI innovation’ In a press release, Rob Thomas, senior vice president, software and chief commercial officer, IBM.
 “This fund is yet another way we’re doubling down on our commitment to responsible AI innovation through Watsonx and helping organizations put this transformational technology to work.” And Hugging Face co-founder and CEO Clem Delangue praised IBM for its collaborations to boost the open-source ecosystem with hundreds of open models on the Hugging Face hub. “This is the reason why we wanted to have them join our series D round,” he said. “I am convinced that they’ll be able to accelerate their impact on AI with the IBM Enterprise AI Venture Fund.” IBM is ‘riding the AI startup wave’ IBM has also already invested in a $50 million series A round for Hidden Layer, a security provider for AI models and assets.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Axios reported that the IBM fund is the latest example of corporate VCs “riding the AI startup wave,” following other companies with significant venture funds including Salesforce, Workday, OpenAI and Amazon.
The investments come as some have reported that IBM CEO Arvind Krishna has been working on some “ damage control ” after his controversial comments about AI-related job losses last May. At an event last week , he said that while ‘the first thing you can automate is a repetitive, white-collar job,’ he is not cutting workers — and in fact will “get more.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
