Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Mosyle launches AI-driven zero trust platform for securing macOS against cyber threats Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Credit: VentureBeat made with Midjourney Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Apple’s macOS has long had a reputation of being more secure than its rival Microsoft Windows, but that doesn’t mean that hackers aren’t going after macOS computers.
Among the many ways that organizations aim to secure systems today is with a zero trust approach, which is now coming in a limited way to Apple macOS users, thanks to Mosyle.
 With zero trust, the basic idea is that there is no implicit trust for operations or applications and everything that runs needs to be validated in some way.
Over the last several years Mosyle has been building out a mobile device management (MDM) platform known as the Apple Unified Platform.
 In 2023, the company expanded its capabilities with generative AI to help improve MDM operations. The new Mosyle Automated Zero Trust solution announced today extends the company’s capabilities to help secure macOS devices and is powered by the company’s proprietary LeeryAI artificial intelligence (AI) engine.
“The concept with zero trust is really trying to flip the game in terms of endpoint security, by not just looking for bad guys, but to just work with who we know is the good guy,” Alcyr Araujo, founder and CEO at Mosyle told VentureBeat in an exclusive interview.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! How the Mosyle zero trust approach uses AI to secure macOS Araujo explained that the new zero trust technology has taken his company over three years to develop.
The technology takes all the information from Mosyle’s MDM as a foundation. With MDM, organizations have information about device configuration, usage and management. On top of that, Mosyle has developed its own AI engine that it calls LeeryAI, that has been trained on and learns from the MDM data.
Araujo explained that Mosyle monitors every single event on a device and combines that with information it has about the devices in the same organization. LeeryAI makes use of a number of different predictive AI techniques to build an AI model for each specific device of what should be running or what should not be running and what’s the context around all code binaries to better understand what should be trusted.
Zero trust is more than just Apple Gatekeeper The idea of only allowing trusted code to run is not a new one for Apple. In fact, for the last decade Apple has incorporated a technology known as Gatekeeper into macOS.
The basic idea with Gatekeeper is that it will only allow code to run that has been cryptographically signed. While Gatekeeper can be helpful, according to Araujo, it’s not nearly enough to deal with the modern threat landscape.
“Our lives would be way better if we could assume that malware will never be signed,” Araujo said.
Araujo noted that malware is increasingly being signed, as threat actors obtain legitimate developer credentials through supply chain attacks or leaked passwords. This allows signed malware to bypass Gatekeeper.
He added that unsigned application code binaries can still be run on devices if Gatekeeper is not properly configured by the user. In recent years there has also been an uptick in supply chain attacks which can result in malware being inserted into legitimate apps after they have been signed.
Gatekeeper only verifies signatures, not the behavior or context of running binaries. Mosyle’s approach using LeeryAI aims to provide deeper behavioral analysis beyond just signatures.
“I believe we should look to the main concept of zero trust in terms of really working with a list of things that we know we should be running and ignore everything else, and doing that in an automated manner,” he said.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
