Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages SurveyMonkey launches ‘Build with AI’, ushers in a new era for survey creation Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Credit: VentureBeat made with Midjourney Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
SurveyMonkey is unveiling new artificial intelligence (AI) capabilities that it hopes will set its online survey tools apart in an increasingly crowded market.
The San Mateo, Calif.-based company today launched a feature called “ Build with AI ” that uses AI technology to automatically generate surveys after users describe the goals and target audience. The aim is to slash the time required for creating customized polls and questionnaires.
“The beauty of our tool is its broad applicability,” said SurveyMonkey CEO Eric Johnson in an interview with VentureBeat. “One of our best selling points is the speed to insight, that you can purchase the product and you can be up and running within minutes or hours and have surveys out and in the field really quickly.” The new tool, which SurveyMonkey developed using OpenAI’s GPT-3 large language model, marks the company’s latest move to bake more AI into its 20-year-old platform. It follows other AI-powered features that analyze survey results and provide recommendations.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Johnson highlighted the democratizing potential of AI in the realm of data analysis. “Today, advanced-level analysis requires a team of PhDs,” he said. “That could be very different in two to five years. We can offer some of these tools and services in ways that we couldn’t have thought of five years ago.” A paradigm shift in survey design and analysis With almost a quarter-century of experience in data collection, SurveyMonkey has consistently adapted and evolved to meet market trends and customer demands. The release of “Build with AI” combines their rich data legacy with cutting-edge AI technology, marking a significant step in the company’s journey.
“We have this almost 25-year-old business, which has this mass of data around a very specific use case that we can now apply against this incredible new technology, and marries seamlessly with what we’ve built and how we’re evolving our core platform,” Johnson added.
The “Build with AI” feature not only enhances the capabilities of its platform but also positions SurveyMonkey at the forefront of the industry’s digital transformation. It paves the way for a future where AI is central to survey design and data interpretation.
This move represents a larger trend in enterprise data, where AI is increasingly influencing business operations, making advanced analysis accessible to a wider audience. SurveyMonkey’s bold move is a clear testament to the expanding role of AI in business optimization and democratizing access to advanced data analysis tools.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
