Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Luma AI’s Genie lets anyone make 3D objects from text Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn image credit: luma.ai Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Luma AI , a startup that specializes in creating 3D content from video and text, has unveiled a new tool that allows anyone to generate realistic 3D models in seconds.
The tool, called Genie , is a research preview of an all-new kind of generative 3D foundation model that can create 3D things from natural language prompts.
Genie is currently available for free on Discord , where users can join a channel and type in what they want to create. Genie will then generate four different 3D models that match the description, along with a link to download them in GLB format. Users can also customize the materials and styles of the models, as well as view them in augmented reality.
The tool is powered by a deep neural network that has been trained on a large dataset of 3D shapes, textures, and scenes. The network can learn the semantic and geometric relationships between words and 3D objects, as well as synthesize novel shapes that are consistent with the input. Genie can handle a wide range of domains, from furniture and animals to vehicles and buildings.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The vision and impact of Luma AI Genie is a potential game-changer for the art world. According to Luma AI’s co-founder and CEO Amit Jain, Genie is part of the company’s vision to democratize 3D content creation and enable anyone to make videos, scenes, and worlds that look plausible and are useful.
“[Our] core belief at Luma is that all visual generative models need to reason and work in 3D to produce videos, scenes, and worlds that look plausible and are useful,” Jain told VentureBeat.
“We are really proud of the speed and quality of Genie,” said Barkley Dai, Growth Lead at Luma AI. “In mere seconds, what was once a vision becomes a tangible 3D object.” The core belief at Luma is that all visual generative models need to reason and work in 3d to make videos, scenes, and worlds that look plausible and are useful. Today we are sharing Genie, a tiny peek into our foundation model research to show what's possible. It's really fast… https://t.co/qrj3ZSgWfD Feedback and reaction from the community Genie has already attracted a lot of attention and praise from the online community. Many users have shared their creations on Twitter using the hashtag #MadeWithGenie.
 Some users have also imported their models into other software such as Blender or Unity to further edit or animate them.
“Pretty compelling Text-to-3D. Prompt was ‘modern purple sofa’. Generated in 14 secs (with 3 others) and the GLB imports into Blender in another 5 seconds,” tweeted Andrew Price, a popular Blender artist and instructor.
“I’m blown away by the new @LumaLabsAI tool. ‘Genie’ created these crocos for me in just 20 seconds??,” tweeted Bruno Pontillo, a digital artist and game developer.
I'm blown away by the new @LumaLabsAI tool. "Genie" created these crocos for me in just 20 seconds?? Is the first 3D prop generation tool that works and i love it ? pic.twitter.com/yGFbIXbpNt Genie is still in its early stages of development and may not always produce perfect results. However, Luma AI promises to improve the tool over time with more data, features, and feedback. The company also plans to release more tools based on their 3D AI technology in the future.
To try out Genie for yourself, you can join Luma AI’s Discord server and follow their instructions. You can also learn more about Luma AI’s vision and technology on their website or their Medium blog.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
