Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Marketing VentureBeat’s Special Issues: Exclusive deep dives into Gen AI and other transformative tech Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
At the heart of VentureBeat’s editorial mission is a commitment to shed light on the most transformative technologies shaping our world for technical leaders.
One key to achieving this lies in our increasingly sought-after format, the “ Special Issue.
” This is where we delve deeper into pivotal topics within the tech industry, with an eye to equip leaders with the knowledge necessary to make informed strategic decisions.
Consider, for instance, our recent Special Issue titled “ Data Centers in 2023 – How to do More with Less “. This issue offered an in-depth examination of how enterprise leaders are navigating the ongoing economic slowdown and the rise in interest rates affecting data center investments. Through a series of ten feature articles, we discovered a prevailing trend: Companies are not abandoning investments in their data centers but are redefining their strategies, focusing on efficiency and consolidation of investments amidst the cloud sprawl of the past decade.
In this case, what set our Special Issue apart was the breadth and depth of our coverage. Alongside detailed reports, we provided detailed video interviews with industry leaders such as Joann Stonier, Chief Data Officer of Mastercard, and Promiti Dutta, head of analytics technology and innovation at Citi. Their exclusive insights into data center strategy, usually kept under wraps due to security concerns, offer our readers a perspective they can’t find anywhere else.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Over the past 18 months, our Special Issues have explored a wide array of topics critical to tech leaders, ranging from data privacy and customer data strategy to AI applications, the evolving CIO agenda and the future of AI in healthcare. The enthusiastic response from sponsors has allowed us to expand our coverage even further. For instance, our GamesBeat site recently published its first Special Issue on how gaming brands build communities amidst the rise of platforms like Discord, thanks to the sponsorship of Modulate.
Our goal is simple: provide in-depth insights you won’t find elsewhere. And the evidence shows that we’re succeeding in this mission. Our exploration into the world of data centers didn’t stop at efficiency; we dug deeper. In July’s Special Issue, we examined “ The Future of the Data Center ,” analyzing how IT leaders are prioritizing performance to meet the increasing demands of AI applications and the impending deployments of generative AI.
But we’re not stopping there. We’re pushing the boundaries of our reporting to cover the ramifications of those escalating processing needs, and the implications for powering data centers. From the electricity power race in Arizona to the increased water demands for cooling in Minnesota, our upcoming Special Issue will explore the intersection of data centers and sustainability.
It’s rare to find such comprehensive, sustained deep dives into complex topics relevant to technical decision-makers, and we appreciate that our commitment is made possible by the unwavering support of our sponsors. A notable mention goes to AMD, who sponsored our data center Special Issues, proving to be an invaluable partner.
Sponsors of other special issues include some of the most innovative companies, including Nvidia and Microsoft.
As we look ahead, we’re excited about two primary areas of focus. Our flagship VentureBeat site remains dedicated to covering LLMs and generative AI and their implications on enterprises. Meanwhile, GamesBeat will continue to lead the conversation on the impact of immersive technologies on the gaming industry.
We invite potential partners and sponsors who wish to engage with these dynamic communities to collaborate with us on upcoming Special Issues.
 Together, we can keep our millions of readers well-informed and prepared to navigate the fast-paced landscape of these transformative technologies.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
