Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Event VentureBeat’s flagship AI event, Transform, goes fully digital and extends to 3 days Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn VB Transform 2020: Hosted online 7/15 - 7/17 Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Transform 2020 , VentureBeat’s AI event of the year for enterprise decision-makers, is shifting to an online-only event to protect our community amid concerns around the coronavirus.
Transform 2020 will be held online July 15-17, expanding from two days to three. Each day is dedicated to a central theme in AI, spanning the Conversational AI Summit, Technology & Automation Summit, IoT & AI at the Edge, and Computer Vision.
During this unprecedented time, VentureBeat is providing a way for the AI business community to experience virtually the same engaging experiences offered by in-person events. To foster personal connections, we’re adding digital equivalents for networking, one-to-one meetings, matchmaking, and live Q&As with speakers.
VentureBeat is the leading publisher of AI content coverage, and we bring our AI expertise, reach, and network to bear at Transform. Our AI channel receives 20 million pageviews a year and has a social reach of 1.5 million. News coverage from Transform alone generates more than a million pageviews. Transform gathers together 750 executives at the director level and above to discuss the best practices in applied enterprise AI. The event also offers invite-only experiences for executives at the VP level and above who come every year.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Transform features keynote speakers from heavy hitters like Google, Intuit, Walmart, Pinterest, Salesforce, Adobe, AWS, Chase, Goldman Sachs, PayPal, Doordash, Visa, and Disney — and from a growing list of sponsors, including Intel, Dataiku, Capital One, Booz Allen Hamilton, and Two Hat Security. Other speakers include leading AI professors from academia, including from Stanford and University of California, Berkeley. Transform will also host its popular Women in AI Breakfast , which is sponsored by Intel and Capital One. The AI event will explore diversity and inclusion, reflect on the importance of ethics in AI practice, and feature our 2nd annual AI Innovation Awards.
VentureBeat’s virtual event will allow AI innovators and leading executives from around the world to come together despite ongoing challenges posed by the pandemic. Our digital options will enable even more people to participate this year — expanding the experience to an even wider group of businesses and executives.
As part of our digital offering, attendees will be able to view live sessions with AI leaders, join networking sessions, engage in digital roundtables, take part in our AI Expo and Tech Showcase online, and participate in 1:1 meetings with world-class AI providers.
“With Transform being the only significant digital AI event for business executives on the map for 2020, it’s important we take leadership in the community and support dialogue and networking for decision-making around AI,” said Matt Marshall, founder and CEO of VentureBeat. “We’ve created a virtual event platform for networking and 1:1 meetings to happen so that we can bring thought leaders in AI together.” Interested investors, vendors, and business executives can register here to join the event online. For companies interested in partnerships, we have innovative and high-impact custom solutions in place for all the components for our strategic sponsors.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
