Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Event MosaicML CEO Naveen Rao on how to democratize generative AI and why he sold to Databricks for $1.3B Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Generative AI and large language models (LLMs) are transforming the way businesses use data and create value. But how can enterprises leverage these technologies without losing control of their data, spending millions of dollars, or relying on third-party models? That’s the question that Naveen Rao, cofounder and CEO of MosaicML , a leading generative AI platform, will answer at the VB Transform event on July 12, 2023 in San Francisco. Rao will share his insights and best practices on how to build, own, and secure best-in-class generative AI models with your own data.
>>Follow VentureBeat’s ongoing generative AI coverage<< MosaicML is known for its state-of-the-art MPT LLMs, which are open-source and commercially licensed. With over 3.3 million downloads of MPT-7B and the recent release of MPT-30B , MosaicML has showcased how organizations can quickly build and train their own state-of-the-art models using their data in a cost-effective way. Customers such as AI2 (Allen Institute for AI), Generally Intelligent, Hippocratic AI, Replit and Scatter Labs leverage MosaicML for a wide variety of generative AI use cases.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! In June 2023, MosaicML was acquired by Databricks, a data and AI analytics provider, for $1.3 billion.
 Rao says that the acquisition was a strategic decision that will enable his company to accelerate its mission of democratizing generative AI and making the lakehouse (the term used by Databricks to refer to its data offering) the best place to build generative AI and LLMs.
In a recent interview with VentureBeat, Rao explained why he is critical of fine-tuning as a way to customize LLMs; why he prefers to train models from scratch with the right data mix; and why he thinks open-source models will eventually overtake closed models.
>> Follow all our VentureBeat Transform 2023 coverage << “Fine-tuning is a way to condition a model to behave in certain ways. It’s not a way to make something really domain-specific. The right way to do it is actually to train a model from scratch,” Rao said.
He also said that using a vector database or a prompt can work well for some cases, but not for others. “You always want to use a minimum effort to solve the problem at hand. In some cases, you can solve it with a vector DB, like pinecone. And you know, you can do that in a way that respects some privacy. You’re basically using a prompt with the vector DB to modify the behavior of the large language model. That has its place,” he said.
He also made a bold prediction that open-source models will eventually overtake closed models, just as Linux did with Solaris. “Open source is really just getting started. So in five years, I think the world will look a bit different,” he said.
If you want to learn more about generative AI and how to leverage it for your business, don’t miss Naveen Rao’s session at VB Transform on July 12, 2023 in San Francisco. Register now and get ready to join the generative AI revolution! VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
