Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Event Looking to create a LLM-based chatbot that harnesses your company’s data? — Join me at VB Transform and find out how Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn VentureBeat founder Matt Marshall at the AI Innovation Awards ceremony held July 12, 2019 in San Francisco Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Imagine a chatbot that can answer any question about your company’s data using the latest generative AI technology; a chatbot that can access your files, documents and databases, and transform them into searchable embeddings that a large language model (LLM) can understand and reference; a chatbot that empowers your executives, employees and customers with instant and accurate information.
That’s the vision that many enterprise developers are working on right now — though the path to making it a reality is anything but straightforward, and will vary greatly for each sector, enterprise and specific set of use cases.
Fortunately, there is a resource for those looking to learn directly from leaders in enterprise tech and gen AI about exactly how they are are embarking on this journey and already achieving powerful results: VB Transform , the premier event for enterprise generative AI, in San Francisco on July 11 & 12.
 I’ll be there hosting an upcoming lunch roundtable discussion about this very topic — LLM-powered chatbots for the enterprise — and you’re invited to attend.
Learn from generative AI experts at an exclusive gathering If you want to learn strategies on how to create such a chatbot, and have your questions answered by knowledgeable experts, you should join me in person at this exclusive discussion. It’s one of nine roundtables that the VentureBeat team and I have curated for next week, featuring a long list of esteemed and knowledgable figures in enterprise tech and AI.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! It’s also just one of many face-to-face networking opportunities we’re offering at VB Transform, where you can connect with like-minded execs and innovators who are shaping the future of business and technology.
>> Follow all our VentureBeat Transform 2023 coverage << VB Transform is the first independent event dedicated to gen AI for the enterprise, and it’s happening right in the global capital of tech innovation: San Francisco, where OpenAI is headquartered, and Hugging Face recently hosted the “ Woodstock of AI.
” Meet speakers from leading global enterprises and emerging gen AI power players Come to VB Transform to hear from some of the most influential business leaders and technologists, including: Gerrit Kazmaier , VP and GM, data and analytics, Google Cloud; Matt Wood , VP of product, Amazon AWS; Joanna Lepore , global foresight director, McDonald’s Corp; Nitzan Mekel-Bobrov , Chief AI officer, Ebay; Madhu Narasimhan , EVP, head of innovation, Wells Fargo; Steve Wood , SVP, product management, Slack; Abhay Parasnis , CEO Typeface; Naveen Rao , CEO MosaicML; Nick Frosst , cofounder, Cohere; JoAnn Stonier , CTO, Mastercard; Desirée Gosby , VP, emerging tech, Walmart.
Don’t miss your chance: there’s still time to register for final admission to VB Transform.
Get tickets now to this excellent networking and knowledge-sharing opportunity, where you’ll learn practical advice from top tech names about how to power your business with gen AI, unlocking more value today — and long into the future. I look forward to seeing you there.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
