Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Databricks acquires enterprise data replicator Arcion for $100M Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Credit: VentureBeat made with Midjourney Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
The white house data lakehouse provider Databricks is further boosting its portfolio, spending $100 million to acquire data replication and ingestion tech provider Arcion, the companies announced this morning. Arcion had already had good friend in Databricks, having been funded by it as a Databricks Ventures portfolio company.
The new tie-up gives Databricks control over Arcion’s suite of no-code “connectors” that allow enterprise customers to replicate and ingest data from the multitude of different sources and applications they rely upon, such as Salesforce, SAP, and Workday, as well as transactional databases such as Oracle, MySQL, and Postgres, according to a press release posted by Databricks.
This way, the original data stays preserved in the application or source, but an updated record of it is pooled with the records of other data sources in a single place for the company to access as needed, synthesize, and retrieved and transformed by AI apps such as conversational chatbots.
Ch-ch-changes… That data can they been replicated or moved into a specific company’s Databricks lakehouse, using Change Data Capture (CDC) , a process by which software monitors data for changes and updates it accordingly.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “Arcion’s highly reliable and easy-to-use solution will enable our customers to make that data available almost instantly for faster and more informed decision-making,” said Ali Ghodsi, Co-Founder and CEO at Databricks, in a statement published in the press release. “Arcion will be a great asset to Databricks, and we are excited to welcome the team and work with them to further develop solutions to help our customers accelerate their data and AI journeys.” ‘Infinite’ scalability? On its website, Arcion bills itself as “the only CDC platform architected for infinite scalability,” meaning that no matter how large a customer’s organization grows and how voluminous their data storage and manipulation needs become, Arcion believes it can help.
Last year, Arcion Gary Hagmueller further articulated this point in an interview with VentureBeat , saying the company “can always keep up with the forever increasing data volume on the source. If an enterprise wants to migrate or replicate terabyte-scale data that requires high throughput, Arcion is the answer.” On-prem and in-cloud solutions The company offers on-premises data management solutions with Arcion self-hosted, as well as virtual private clouds and its own Arcion Cloud storage solutions through AWS.
It counts multiple fortune 500 companies among its current clients, including the second largest bank in the U.S., but that number is sure to grow as it plugs into Databricks and gets access to those customers.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
