Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release Hardfin Introduces First Technology To Enable Hardware-as-a-Service (HaaS) Companies To Automate Contract-To-Cash Cycle Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn SAN FRANCISCO–(BUSINESS WIRE)–October 31, 2023– Hardfin , the leader in financial operations for modern hardware companies, announces the release of Control Center to dramatically reduce time spent in the contract-to-cash cycle. Control Center automatically notifies sales, finance, and operations stakeholders of actions needed to keep the business in sync, shortening the billing cycle by 60-70%.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231031253815/en/ Hardfin’s first-of-its-kind Control Center shortens the contract-to-cash cycle for hardware-as-a-service (HaaS) companies. Intelligent notifications help sales, finance, and operations teams understand immediately what needs to be done, shortening the billing cycle by 60-70%. (Photo: Business Wire) “Decreasing contract-to-cash time is a mission-critical priority for us,” says Manny Guerrero , Chief Financial Officer at Fox Robotics.
 “Hardfin has already provided tremendous value to Fox and we’re excited about this expanded capability to optimize our hardware financial operations.” Hardware-as-a-Service (HaaS) companies spend a lot of time tracking down information, usually cobbling together emails, spreadsheets, and data from a CRM or ERP. This means delays across the business, especially in billing operations. Hardfin analysis shows that average days to send invoices (ADS) at hardware companies is often twice as long as average days to collect (ADC).
“We hear every day about the struggle that HaaS companies have keeping information straight across teams. It negatively impacts customers, hurts revenue, slows billing, and causes accounting issues,” says Zachary Kimball , co-founder & CEO of Hardfin. “I’m proud that Control Center is already helping tackle this problem – intelligently surfacing the right actions at the right time to streamline workflow and improve performance across teams.” Cross-functional activity in the hardware industry used to rely on manual process and oversight. Now, Control Center acts automatically to remove the guesswork and deliver consistency, accuracy, and efficiency: Create a subscription for Sales when customer signs a new purchase order Send notifications for the Operations team when a contract is activated Track assets and capitalization for Accounting when assets are shipped or configured Start software billing for Accounts Receivable when assets pass system acceptance Manage accrued/deferred revenue for Finance when invoices are sent Control Center’s powerful automations are enabled by Hardfin’s dynamic linking of assets and contracts. Hardfin is the first software to manage hardware financial operations with linked assets, which makes it possible to track the full lifecycle of hardware subscriptions.
Streamlined actions ensure consistent information flow across functions, solving a major pain point for equipment-as-a-service (EaaS) companies. One major application of this new technology supports the growing robots-as-a-service (RaaS) industry.
For more information, see the Hardfin website.
 To learn more about HaaS, read the Hardfin guide to hardware financial operations.
 To stay up to date, follow Hardfin and Zachary Kimball on LinkedIn.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231031253815/en/ Madi Waggoner Email: press@hardfin.com Phone: +1 (415) 969-3100 Brand: Media kit VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
