Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Event VentureBeat launches a GenAI tour for 2024 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Credit: VentureBeat made with Midjourney Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
VentureBeat, a publication leading coverage of generative AI news, is launching an event tour of major cities in the U.S.
 – including one near you – that explores how to best put generative AI to work in your business.
VentureBeat’s editorial team will curate a series of exclusive salon events that will be taken on the road, in close partnership with leading influencers and practitioners in enterprise AI, and with support from sponsors that are leading enterprise providers in the area.
Called the AI Impact Tour, the salon series will bring together AI decision makers from key industries around the hottest enterprise topics in eight cities across the U.S.
The first salon event is set for Jan 10 in San Francisco ( request an invite ) and focuses on “Getting to an AI governance blueprint.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Governance has taken center stage again lately, in the face of powerful new capabilities of large language models (LLMs), including autonomous AI that can run without human intervention.
 At this event, we’ll debate the leading frameworks organizations can implement to oversee, regulate and guide their AI projects. We’ll moderate a conversation with a special speaker, to be announced, who will showcase how their business has successfully adopted an AI governance model.
Subsequent dates and cities will be announced soon, so stay tuned. Each event will include networking, so that you can meet influencers in your industry as well as generative AI enablers. Some events in the series will include curated talks around specific verticals, such as finance, health, pharma, cybersecurity, technology and more.
We believe generative AI is about to revolutionize almost every domain, function and workflow of the enterprise, but that targeted conversations are necessary for audiences to understand how to stay in front of this change. The pace of change has been so swift, and the conversation is so early that we’ve yet to see nuanced, credible conversations being hosted by independent parties about enterprise generative AI in even the leading hubs like SF Bay Area and New York City, not to mention the other tier one cities like Chicago, Los Angeles, and more.
Moreover, we believe it’s imperative that companies keep pushing ahead aggressively to experiment and deploy LLM technology in order to stay competitive, given its transformative power. But at the same time, companies should make a serious commitment to ensuring that it’s safely deployed. This two-pronged approach – of attention to capability, but also to safety and governance – is critical.
The events will conclude with breakout roundtables where attendees can join small group discussions on topics related to ChatGPT and generative AI. The roundtables will be moderated by VentureBeat’s editors and reporters who cover the latest trends and developments in AI.
The AI Impact Tour salons will be open to 100 attendees each, and you’ll want to reserve your spot early to gain insights into your industry and meet key decision makers and VB’s writers covering this space.
Request for an invitation to the AI Impact Tour today. Don’t miss this opportunity to be part of the future, where industry leaders shape the next wave of AI innovation.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
