Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Forrester’s 2024 Predictions Report warns of AI ‘shadow pandemic’ as employees adopt unauthorized tools Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Credit: VentureBeat made with Midjourney Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Forrester Research unveiled its highly anticipated 2024 predictions report last week, charting a course for more measured AI growth while warning business leaders to prepare for rampant “shadow usage” as employees rely on their own AI tools to be productive.
The 38-page report sees AI platform budgets tripling in 2024 as companies invest in scalable solutions to build, deploy and monitor AI models. However, Forrester cautions this won’t be enough to satisfy employee demand. The report predicts 60% of employees will use their own AI tools at work, introducing new regulatory and compliance challenges.
Forrester sees 85% of companies expanding AI capabilities with open-source models like GPT-J and BERT rather than relying solely on popular proprietary choices like ChatGPT. It also expects 40% of enterprises to proactively invest in governance for AI compliance, getting ahead of looming regulations in the E.U., U.S. and China.
Open-source models and risk management On the innovation front, Forrester predicts a major insurer will begin offering AI “hallucination insurance” in 2024, covering errors and harms specifically caused by AI mistakes as the technology proliferates.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Forrester’s 2024 Predictions Report overall caps a wild year that saw generative AI explode in popularity among consumers and employees, putting pressure on CIOs and CDOs to deliver business results.
The report strikes a pragmatic tone, warning leaders not to get distracted by AI hype and “fun and games” as they build strategies to capitalize on AI’s emerging potential.
Forrester sees 2024 as the start of the “era of intentional AI” as companies move the technology out of R&D and into productive business applications.
“Without a doubt, 2023 will go down as the year of AI as we saw the rise of consumerization of generative AI. Announcements rolled out about mergers, acquisitions, wild company valuations, and oversized VC and internal investments,” Forrester’s team of analysts say in the report.
“We predict that 2024 will galvanize enterprise teams to be proactive, develop a meaningful AI strategy, and deliver on the AI promise while keeping an eye on regulations and new risks,” they add.
Here are some of the biggest takeaways from the Forrester 2024 AI predictions report: 60% of employees will use their own AI tools at work, creating security risks.
AI platform budgets will triple as demand for AI capabilities spikes.
85% of companies will incorporate open-source AI models into their tech stack.
40% of enterprises will proactively invest in AI governance for compliance.
Insurers will begin offering “AI hallucination insurance” covering AI mistakes.
Generative AI will see 36% CAGR growth from 2023 to 2030 as adoption surges.
Enterprises will move AI from R&D into production business applications.
AI strategies must focus on managing shadow usage and driving value.
Tech leaders feel pressure from employees and executives to adopt AI.
2024 will start the “era of intentional AI” as hype gives way to pragmatism.
These predictions underscore the need for a focused AI strategy even as generative AI brings renewed excitement to the business world. Enterprise leaders must proactively address risks as they expand responsible AI adoption.
The Forrester report is a significant indicator of just how far we’ve come in the AI and data analytics landscape, and how much further we’re set to go. As we move into 2024, the predictions made in this report provide a roadmap for businesses, technologists, and policymakers to navigate the future of AI, data analytics, and automation.
The report serves as a reminder that while the AI revolution is promising, it is not without challenges. As we transition from the hype to the pragmatism of AI, it is important to approach these challenges strategically, ensuring that the promise of AI is realized while mitigating potential risks.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
