Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release Expanding Trading Opportunities Across Capital Markets, OneChronos Secures $40 Million Series B Investment Round Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Round led by Addition; New funds will help OneChronos expand its product offering and footprint across capital markets NEW YORK–(BUSINESS WIRE)–September 29, 2023– OneChronos , a technology company leveraging advances in auction theory and artificial intelligence to optimize financial markets, announced today the completion of its Series B investment round of $40 million. The financing was led by Addition.
OneChronos operates Smart Market periodic auctions at the speed, scale, and resiliency required of the most demanding electronic capital markets. Starting with U.S. equities, these auctions optimize for “best execution,” fostering competition on transaction quality rather than speed. Launched in Q3 2022, the Company has so far facilitated more than $60 billion in institutional securities transactions, with volumes growing more than 35% month over month.
Growth has been driven by strong execution performance, as evaluated by OneChronos’ network of over 45 banks, brokers, and dealers servicing thousands of asset managers for their electronic trading needs.
The funds raised will help OneChronos expand to new markets and launch new products that allow additional strategy-level constraints within auctions. Doing so will unlock mutually beneficial trading opportunities missed by legacy auction and market formats, and further enhance potential execution quality of trading algorithms and workflows.
“OneChronos has clearly demonstrated the execution quality advantage of its product in a highly competitive and established market,” said Andrew Miskiewicz, Investor at Addition. “We look forward to supporting the OneChronos team as they continue solving the unique challenges of operating high-speed Smart Markets, positioning them as the industry leader.” While Smart Markets have been used in other industries, their use in capital markets requires unprecedented speed, scale, and resiliency. A core technical challenge is running these auctions within milliseconds. The OneChronos team operates at the intersection of state-of-the-art computer engineering, AI/ML approaches, mechanism design, and operations research; all of which are applied to capital markets in order to meet these unique needs.
Kelly Littlepage, Chief Executive Officer and Founder of OneChronos, said, “We founded OneChronos as a team of institutional investors, traders, and technologists with a deep appreciation for the cost and complexity of institutional trading and the staggering investment returns lost to market friction. Markets like digital display advertising drew their inspiration from capital markets but quickly evolved beyond after seeing the compelling results modern market mechanisms delivered. Capital markets still use 200+ year-old mechanics predating modern theory and computing capabilities. We’re incredibly excited to partner with Addition in our journey to change that, and grow the global GDP by helping institutions better optimize their investment objectives.” About OneChronos OneChronos is a technology company of diverse thinkers innovating at the intersection of capital markets, mechanism design, and operations research, working to grow the global GDP by designing and operating matching markets leveraging advances in auction theory and artificial intelligence.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230929257926/en/ Media media@onechronos.com VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
