Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Zerobroker eliminates freight broker fees with AI-powered logistics platform Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Credit: VentureBeat made with Midjourney Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Logistics startup Zerobroker has raised $6.5 million in seed funding to expand its AI-powered platform that removes freight brokers from the shipping process. The round included participation from Flexport, FundersClub, Streamlined Ventures, and others.
The San Francisco-based startup’s technology aims to reduce costs and streamline logistics for shippers. Led by founder and CEO Georgy Melkonyan, the firm is on a mission to introduce clarity and efficiency into an industry often criticized for being opaque.
“We bring transparency to an industry that historically has not been transparent,” said Zerobroker founder and CEO Georgy Melkonyan in an interview with VentureBeat. “We show who a shipper is, who the trucker is. There is no hidden information.” By connecting shippers directly with carriers, Zerobroker eliminates the 20-30% commission fee traditionally charged by freight brokers on each transaction. This allows shippers to lower their transportation costs significantly.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The platform uses artificial intelligence to automate up to 90% of repetitive tasks performed by logistics teams, such as managing freight, paperwork and payments. It provides real-time visibility into shipments and ensures full compliance.
“With Zerobroker, shippers can create a shipment and the system takes care of everything else – informing customers, suppliers, automating payments and paperwork,” Melkonyan explained. “Everyone gets notified automatically.” Since launching in February 2022, Zerobroker has been adding 50% more customers every month and has not lost a single client. The company’s rapid growth shows the demand for digital innovation in the logistics industry.
The new funding will help Zerobroker expand its engineering team to build more advanced capabilities into the platform, like long-term contract pricing. The startup also plans to broaden support for additional freight modes like LTL and flatbed.
Zerobroker’s success demonstrates the power of AI and automation to transform traditional industries. By removing middlemen brokers and optimizing workflows, data-driven platforms like Zerobroker are driving down costs and making supply chains more efficient. As Melkonyan noted, “Logistics is the backbone of any economy.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
