Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Meta announces ‘universe of AI’ for Instagram, Facebook, WhatsApp Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
At a keynote speech at the annual Meta Connect conference today, Mark Zuckerberg announced that Meta is launching massive AI updates across the company’s applications and devices, including Instagram, Facebook and WhatsApp, building “state-of-the-art AI into the apps that billions of people use.” The new AI experiences and features, providing, “different AIs for different things,” include: Meta AI chatbot A beta rollout of an “advanced conversational assistant” available on WhatsApp, Messenger and Instagram, and coming to Ray-Ban Meta smart glasses and Quest 3. In the US, Meta AI will provide real-time information (thanks to a search partnership with Microsoft Bing), as well as a tool for image generation courtesy of a new image model called Emu (Expressive Media Universe). Meta AI is powered by a custom model that leverages technology from the company’s open source LLM, Llama 2.
An AI ‘cast of characters’ Meta launched 28 AIs in beta with unique interests and personalities — some are played by cultural icons and influencers, including Snoop Dogg, Tom Brady, Kendall Jenner, and Naomi Osaka. Meta’s press materials call these a ‘ new cast of characters – all with unique backstories.’ VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! AI Studio Platform Meta launched the AI Studio platform for businesses to build AI chatbots for the company’s messaging services, including Facebook, Instagram and Messenger. Meta also said in the coming year it will launch a sandbox tool to “enable anyone to experiment with creating their own AI.” Generative AI stickers across apps Soon users will be able to edit images and co-create them with friends on Instagram using new AI editing tools, restyle and backdrop. The tool uses Llama 2 and Meta’s new image generation model, Emu , and turns text prompts into stickers in just a few in seconds. This new feature roll out to select English-language users over the next month in WhatsApp, Messenger, Instagram, and Facebook Stories.
Ray-Ban Smart Glasses have Meta AI built in By saying “Hey Meta,” you can engage with Meta AI to “spark creativity, get information, and control your glasses—just by using your voice.” Starting at $299 USD, the glasses collection launches on October 17 and is available for pre-order today.
Zuckerberg cautioned that the Meta AI product launches are “early stuff,” saying they “still have lots of limitations, which is apparent when you use the — unlike Meta AI that don’t have access to real time information — there’s just a lot to improve as get more feedback.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
