Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Meet Superframe, the AI startup that wants to be your copilot for revenue operations Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Image Credit: Superframe Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Superframe , an AI-powered software company aiming to help businesses optimize their go-to-market technology stacks, announced today that it has raised $5 million in seed funding from more than 40 angel investors, including data and AI experts, Salesforce consultants and general operating experts.
The round comes on the heels of Superframe’s launch of its first official product, an AI assistant for managing complex Salesforce implementations. The startup says its technology will save companies time and money by making Salesforce configuration changes fast, safe, reliable and easy.
Derek Steer, cofounder and CEO of Superframe, said that accuracy is going to be the company’s number one differentiator in the AI market.
“We want to fight the consumer frustration with a lack of accuracy. We want to build trust with our customers by giving them something they can’t get somewhere else,” he told VentureBeat in a recent interview.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Steer is no stranger to the data and AI world, as he previously sold his last company Mode , a business intelligence platform, to Thoughtspot for $200 million.
Simplify and optimize your go-to-market tools In the long term, Superframe aims to solve the pain points that many companies face when they implement go-to-market tools, such as Salesforce, Marketo and HubSpot. These tools are often complex, rigid and hard to configure, resulting in wasted time, money and resources. Superframe uses the latest language models from OpenAI ( ChatGPT ) to provide instant and accurate answers to questions about the current state of the system, and to propose and implement configuration changes based on the users’ description of what they want to do.
Steer also said that Superframe will not replace humans, but rather enable them to rely on their expertise and clear their backlogs.
“We want to help more people build more expertise,” he said. “And that’s something that customers are still going to want to rely on.” He added that Superframe will help customers map out their business processes and configure their systems without being held back by the complexity and rigidity of the tools.
Superframe is currently in beta testing with a select group of customers, and plans to launch publicly in early 2024. The first phase of Superframe, which is answering questions about the system, will be free for users. The company plans to use the seed funding for product development and hiring more engineers. The startup currently has four employees.
Building the next generation of go-to-market tools Superframe is one of the many startups that are using AI to simplify and optimize business operations. According to a recent Gartner report, the market for AI software will reach almost $134.8 billion by 2025.
 The report also cites the increasing adoption of cloud-based services and applications as one of the key drivers for the AI market growth.
Superframe’s vision is to become the copilot for revenue operations teams, and to help them think more creatively about their go-to-market strategies.
“We believe that humans are capable of a lot,” said Steer. “And we are in a lot of cases bottlenecked by the tools that we use. We want to remove those bottlenecks in order to give people a greater ability to employ their creativity.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
