Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Databricks accelerates migration to data lakehouse with new technology partner Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Databricks, a vendor known for setting up data lakehouses for enterprises, today announced a partnership with database virtualization player Datometry to facilitate easy transitions from legacy data warehouses.
The company said the integration will give teams a simple way to migrate data warehouse workloads to Databricks’ lakehouse architecture without worrying about usually pressing aspects like cost or time.
The move marks another effort from Databricks to lure more customers to its data platform and better take on competition such as data cloud platform Snowflake.
Datometry’s 4x faster migration to data lakehouse Moving data and applications to the cloud from an on-premises setup is no easy task. Companies have to hire system integrators to rewrite the embedded SQL and configuration and make the whole thing work on the new platform. This not only takes a lot of time and capital but is also prone to error.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Founded in 2013 and backed by $34 million in venture capital, San Francisco-based Datometry bridges this gap by providing enterprises with an SaaS platform that lets data and applications written for an on-prem data warehouse run natively in the cloud. The solution continuously intercepts the workloads’ communication with the original database and translates and redirects it to the new cloud platform. It delivers everything as is, including SQL statements as well as features like stored procedures, macros and recursive queries in real time.
With this tie-in with Databricks, Datometry has joined the Ali Ghodsi-led company’s technology partner program. The move will see Datometry provide its platform as a validated integration for the Databricks lakehouse, allowing enterprises to quickly connect and pull in their data and applications from legacy on-prem platforms.
The company says it can deliver migrations four times faster and at just 20% of the cost of other approaches.
“We’re proud to be partnering with Databricks,” Mike Waas, CEO of Datometry, said. “This partnership will enable organizations to break free from the vendor lock-in of legacy databases and adopt a lakehouse architecture four times faster than with any other approach.” Partner program drives visibility With its technology partner program , Databricks provides relevant third-party solutions to its customers, allowing them to work seamlessly in their lakehouses. Meanwhile, these third-party solutions get a newer set of customers to target and work with.
However, in this case, it is not just Datometry getting new customers. The integration for migrating data and apps will accelerate potential customers’ journeys to Databricks’ lakehouse services. Additionally, when customers can quickly bring workloads into the lakehouse and put them to maximum use, Datometry’s revenue, which operates on a pay-as-you-go basis, will also grow.
A similar tactic has been adopted by Databricks’ competitor Snowflake. In January, it signed an agreement with Mobilize Net to acquire SnowConvert, a suite of tools that uses sophisticated automation techniques with built-analysis and matching to re-create functionally equivalent code for tables, views, stored procedures, macros and BTEQ files in the Snowflake data cloud.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
