Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release WaveFront Dynamics Inc. Launches WaveDȳn® Vision Analyzer Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn New dynamic aberrometer now available Video capture of the dynamic optical system enables highly accurate objective refractions.
1 Subjective confirmation of objective refraction.
Ultra-high-resolution Shack-Hartmann wavefront sensor creates high-definition wavefront images.
2 ALBUQUERQUE, N.M.–(BUSINESS WIRE)–March 30, 2023– WaveFront Dynamics Inc.
, an ophthalmic medical device company, announced today the commercial launch of its dynamic aberrometry measurement system, the WaveDyn Vision Analyzer. The WaveDyn Vision Analyzer (pronounced WaveD”eye”n) captures a video of the eye’s dynamic optical system over time (rather than just producing a single measurement). The WaveDyn Analyzer’s high resolution, dynamic measurement capabilities provide highly accurate objective refractions as well as ocular surface quality and accommodative function analysis. The system provides 9 ocular measurements to streamline workflow.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230330005171/en/ WaveFront Dynamics Inc. Launches WaveDȳn® Vision Analyzer; New dynamic aberrometer now available. (Photo: Business Wire Dynamic wavefront aberrometry Objective refraction Dynamic corneal topography Corneal surface irregularity Keratometry Dynamic iris image Pupil dynamics Subjective refraction confirmation Accommodation range measurement At the core of Wavefront Dynamics’ continued innovation is the Shack-Hartmann wavefront sensor, a technology that has long been used in astronomy to improve the image quality of telescopes. Wavefront Dynamic’s founder and CEO, Dan Neal, Ph.D., developed a wide variety of applications for wavefront sensors, including measurement of aero-optic phenomena, the large telescope mirrors used in the James Webb Space Telescope, and silicon wafer metrology. For nearly 30 years, the team has made advancements in wavefront technology to measure and correct imperfections of the human eye, to improve visual performance.
“The WaveDyn Vision Analyzer represents our continued commitment to innovation and advancement in wavefront technology,” said Dr. Neal. “The Analyzer will serve as a platform to create personalized ophthalmic treatment solutions for patients through our strategic industry partnerships.” “The WaveDyn Vison Analyzer has increased my understanding of the optics of the eye and of what is possible,” said Christine Sindt, OD, FAAO Clinical Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences at University of Iowa Health Care. “I now incorporate aberration measurement into all aspects of patient care. I start all my refractions using data from the WaveDyn System. This system has allowed me to get functional glasses for aberrated eyes.” About WaveFront Dynamics Inc.
Founded in 2019, WaveFront Dynamics is a privately held, commercial-stage medical device company with innovative wavefront diagnostic technology for use in the vision care industry. The company plans to leverage dynamic measurements to yield new insights into assessing visual performance, advancing treatment options, and improving quality of life for the visually impaired. For more information, please visit www.wavefrontdynamics.com.
Neal et al. “Dynamic aberrometer/topographer designed for clinical measurement and treatment of highly aberrated eyes,” Optical Engineering, December 2022, Vol. 61(12) Neal et al, “Restoration of normal optical quality with wavefront guided scleral lenses,” Global Specialty Lens Symposium 2023, Las Vegas, NV.
WaveDyn ® is a registered trademark of WaveFront Dynamics Inc.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230330005171/en/ Investor and Media Inquiries: Dan Neal, PhD, Founder, CEO +1 505.453.7918 Dan.Neal@wavdyn.com VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
