Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release Angeles Equity Partners Adds Randi Moran as Chief Performance Officer Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn LOS ANGELES–(BUSINESS WIRE)–February 28, 2023– Angeles Equity Partners, LLC (“Angeles”), a private investment firm focused on value creation through operational transformation, has appointed Randi Moran as chief performance officer at Angeles Operations Group, LLC. Moran brings more than 20 years of people, process, and program management experience to the role.
Angeles is a specialist lower middle-market private equity investment firm with a consistent approach to transforming underperforming industrial businesses. As chief performance officer, Moran will support Angeles in the evaluation and due diligence of new platform investments, selection and development of leadership talent, and driving organizational effectiveness across portfolio investments.
“We are thrilled to add Randi Moran as our chief performance officer. Her extensive experience in acquiring and developing talent and creating more effective organizations in the industrial and manufacturing sectors makes her an outstanding fit for this role,” said Tim Meyer co-founder and managing partner of Angeles Equity Partners. “The addition of Randi underscores our commitment to investing in ‘top talent’ and the ongoing professional development of our portfolio employees.” Prior to joining Angeles, Moran was chief human resources officer (CHRO) at American Construction Source, a national building materials platform for custom home builders and repair and remodel contractors. Before that, she held senior leadership roles at Elo Touch Solutions, GE Power, Vought Aircraft, Boeing, Hughes Space & Communications, and AlliedSignal. Moran was a Major in the U.S. Air Force and earned an aerospace engineering degree from the University of Southern California and an MBA from Pepperdine University.
“I believe strongly in the power of cultivating and optimizing a people-first culture by acquiring and developing the best talent to drive growth and create value. I am thrilled to work alongside the talented individuals at Angeles and look forward to contributing to the continued success of the firm,” Moran said.
About Angeles Equity Partners, LLC Angeles Equity Partners, LLC is a specialist lower middle-market private equity investment firm with a consistent approach to transforming underperforming industrial companies. In partnership with Angeles Operations Group, LLC, the Angeles skill set drives the firm’s investment philosophy and, in its view, can help businesses reach their full potential. Learn more online at www.angelesequity.com.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230228005680/en/ Michelle Barry Chameleon Collective for Angeles Equity Partners Michelle.barry@chameleon.co VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
