Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Guest Why modernization investment should be more strategic than discretionary Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Enterprise modernization efforts aren’t what they used to be. Once limited to the IT side of the house, modernization efforts today now rightfully top the executive agenda.
This makes sense. Modernization, when done right, drives increased reliability, resilience and revenue across organizations. The result: Happier customers and a more healthy organization.
More organizations are recognizing this. Over the next five years, as much as 90% of legacy applications will be replaced by modern systems, according to a recent Infosys survey of 1,500 senior technology leaders and executives.
But while modernization’s importance is on the rise, not all modernization efforts are equally successful. On one hand, there has been a heartening rise in the number of organizations that have taken a strategic approach to their modernization projects. On the other hand, we still see many organizations that rely on a more haphazard approach, exposing them to a wide variety of risks.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Why discretionary modernization fails Earlier this year our team set out to better understand the state of application modernization across large and small enterprises. In conversations with IT leaders and executives we found that, while companies overall invest 65% of their discretionary budget on modernization projects, smaller organizations were more likely than larger ones to do so.
This is dangerous. Companies that rely on discretionary budgeting to modernize their systems are more likely to experience frequent and severe disruptions, according to the business leaders we spoke to.
The costs of such downtime can be immense.
According to some estimates , a minute of system downtime can cost an organization as much as $5,400. In today’s economy, few organizations can afford that kind of loss.
Why strategic investment succeeds Fortunately, while many organizations still rely on discretionary investment, the majority are thinking differently. More strategic, future-thinking companies are approaching modernization like a marathon, building modernization roadmaps optimized for pacing, planning and persistence.
There are a few benefits to this approach. For one, thinking strategically allows organizations to be more deliberate. For example, we’ve seen consistent success among organizations that have embraced phased implementations of modern applications. This approach, also known as “coexistent” implementation, is less disruptive and ensures business continuity. It’s particularly important for critical systems, which are the most costly when they go down.
Second, organizations that embrace strategic modernization are also more likely to be able to articulate the commercial outcomes of their efforts. It’s hard to overstate how valuable this is. Nearly a quarter (24%) of the IT leads we spoke to said that cost was the most significant hurdle to their modernization projects. A better understanding of the financial impact can help. After all, it’s far easier to secure executive sponsorship for a project if you can explain to your finance team how it will drive revenue, reduce costs or, ideally, do both simultaneously. Indeed, 29% of the leaders we spoke to said that having a valid business case was most important to ensuring that a modernization program reaches its objectives.
Third, a more strategic approach to enterprise modernization can also drive a more informed approach to talent development. The tech talent crunch is real for organizations both large and small. When we asked respondents about the most significant impediments to their modernization efforts, more than half cited the skills gap and the difficulty of both retraining existing technologists and recruiting new ones. Thinking long-term can help IT teams better understand their current talent gaps and how to address them in a structured, sustainable way.
A more modern approach to modernization To close, let’s highlight one element that separates successful business transformation efforts from less successful ones: The ability to articulate and share a single, cohesive vision for modernization. The organizations that succeed are those that can tell a story that aligns their people, process and technology. The organizations that fail are the ones that can’t.
Gautam Khanna is the vice president and global head of the modernization practice at Infosys.
DataDecisionMakers Welcome to the VentureBeat community! DataDecisionMakers is where experts, including the technical people doing data work, can share data-related insights and innovation.
If you want to read about cutting-edge ideas and up-to-date information, best practices, and the future of data and data tech, join us at DataDecisionMakers.
You might even consider contributing an article of your own! Read More From DataDecisionMakers The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! DataDecisionMakers Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
