Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages How Onyxia uses security AI to help CISOs improve their security posture Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Managing cybersecurity risks is challenging, not necessarily because vulnerabilities are hard to find, but because most organizations rely on manual processes to do so. However, security AI has the potential to automatically measure risks in the environment, and provide recommendations on what to address first.
Security provider Onyxia , which launched today with $5 million in seed funding, demonstrates this approach by enabling organizations to use artificial intelligence (AI) to monitor their security posture in real time.
As complexity increases in modern networks, AI-driven solutions will become more important for identifying gaps in an enterprise’s defenses, and reduce the chance of threat actors being able to exploit any vulnerabilities.
Using security AI to mitigate risk The key challenge of mitigating cyber-risks is to understand that the level of risk isn’t static, but changes as technology and users in the environment move in and out.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! In environments that aren’t driven by AI, security teams and CISOs can struggle to keep up with the rate the environment changes. At the same time, the pace of work makes it difficult to make accurate judgment calls on which security risks to address first to improve the overall security posture of the organization.
By using AI, an organization can eliminate this guesswork and start accurately assessing what actions they can take to better secure their environments.
“ Helpnet Security reported that out of 3,800 CISOs surveyed, 61% of security teams are understaffed and 69% say that hiring managers don’t accurately understand their company’s cybersecurity hiring needs, adding training and educational responsibilities that most IT teams cannot spare,” said Sivan Tehila, CEO of Onyxia.
“Currently, security priorities are shifting as 90% of organizations fail to address cybersecurity risks. Onyxia enables CISOs and security teams to gain a holistic view of their entire cybersecurity environment while highlighting the best solutions and strategies to close security gaps, filling in the gaps that they didn’t know existed,” Tehila said.
Onxyia is well-placed to meet these challenges, given founder Sivan Tehila’s technology pedigree, previously serving as CISO of the research and analysis division and head of information security for the Israeli Defense Force (IDF).
The vendor’s solution uses machine learning ( ML ) and AI to provide CISOs with custom suggestions on how to improve their organization’s security posture. Recommendations are based on industry-specific needs, special risks and budget, and enable decision-makers to find the most effective way to improve cyber-resilience.
AI risk management solutions According to Tehila, Onxyia is defining a new solution category for security teams and has no direct competitors.
“Onxyia is a proactive solution that takes internal and macro-environment factors into account. A proactive solution is necessary for security managers to have real-time insight into their cybersecurity postures and implement proactive measures to ensure business continuity. Currently most of these processes are being done manually,” Tehila said.
Although it’s important to note that Onxyia isn’t the only provider leveraging AI to identify risks in enterprise environments. For instance, Securiti uses AI to automatically map unstructured and structured data records in real time, while providing an overview of risk scores for data risks. Securiti most recently raised $50 million as part of a series B funding round.
Similarly, OneTrust also uses AI to discover and classify data, identifying at-risk data and enabling the user to monitor it with analytics displays. To date, OneTrust has raised $920 million in funding.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
