Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 65% of IT leaders are investing in unstructured data analytics Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Enterprises are storing more data than ever. How much? According to the Komprise 2022 Unstructured Data Management report, more than half are managing 5 petabytes or more of data compared to less than 40% in 2021. Most (68%) are spending more than 30% of their IT budget on data storage, backups and disaster recovery.
How are companies storing this data and what are their struggles, plans and priorities for managing unstructured data ? Situation: Cloudy with a chance of data According to the report, the cloud is the dominant storage medium. Nearly half (47%) of respondents said they will invest in cloud network attached storage (NAS), followed by cloud object storage (43%).
Meanwhile, companies are shifting from simply driving storage efficiencies to delivering data services in the cloud, including the ability to leverage file and object data in cloud analytics tools for competitive gain: 65% of respondents said they are investing in unstructured data analytics, with the goal of putting more power in the hands of end users.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! A new approach to unstructured data The ability to initiate and execute automated data workflows for a variety of use cases is the leading new approach to unstructured data management.
“IT leaders are realizing that by moving the right data in the right way to the cloud, they can leverage affordable AI [artificial intelligence] and ML [machine learning] tools and glean new value from the petabytes of unstructured data they’ve been storing on expensive data center appliances,” said Krishna Subramanian, cofounder, COO and president of Komprise.
Komprise’s research also found that IT leaders are focused on unstructured data management as a way to not only cut costs, but protect sensitive data, improve big data analytics, segment data for M&A transactions and enable data deletion policies.
The Komprise 2022 Unstructured Data Management Report summarizes the responses of 300 enterprise IT directors, VPs and C-level executives at companies with more than 1,000 employees in the United States and in the UK.
Read the full report from Komprise.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
