Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release Oncomatryx Announces FDA and AEMPS IND Clearance for OMTX705, a First-in-class Tumor Microenvironment-targeted ADC, to Treat Advanced Solid Tumors Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn BILBAO, Spain–(BUSINESS WIRE)–May 31, 2022– After 15 years of pioneering R&D efforts in the tumor microenvironment, Oncomatryx announces that the FDA and the Spanish Drug Agency (AEMPS) have cleared its investigational new drug (IND) application for OMTX705, a First-in-Class antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) targeting the tumor microenvironment.
OMTX705 is a pioneering ADC that targets, with a novel, dual mechanism of action, the Cancer-Associated Fibroblasts that enable tumor metastasis, drug resistance and immunosuppression.
OMTX705 has already shown unbeatable safety in non-human primates and tumor regression in murine models of pancreatic, breast, lung and gastric cancer.
Oncomatryx will run a multicenter, dose escalation trial in patients suffering metastatic solid tumors. OMTX705 will be administered as single agent and in combination with immunotherapy.
OMTX705 phase I clinical trial will be run in seven hospitals in USA and Spain.
About Oncomatryx Oncomatryx, a global biopharmaceutical company, is pioneering the development of precision ADCs and bispecific antibodies against novel targets in the tumor microenvironment.
The company, located in the Bizkaia Technology Park (Bilbao, Spain), has discovered novel pathways and proteins in the Cancer-Associated Fibroblasts that surround the tumor and promote its invasiveness, immunosuppression and drug resistance.
Oncomatryx has undertaken the development of pioneering drugs against these pathways and proteins of the tumor microenvironment, in collaboration with prestigious universities and hospitals in USA and Europe, led by the Institute of Cell Biology and Immunology of the University of Stuttgart (Germany).
Oncomatryx is investing 50 million euros in 2022-2024, to develop OMTX705 and other novel tumor microenvironment-targeted ADCs and Bispecific antibodies.
www.oncomatryx.com View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20220524005142/en/ Pedro Esnaola admin@oncomatryx.com +34 946 087 037 VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
