Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Innodisk debuts industrial-grade DDR5 memory Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Innodisk has announced its industrial-grade DDR5 memory for workstations. This memory will push forward speed, capacity and reliability in a professional environment.
Innodisk touts that it is enabling the early adoption of DDR5 for workstations, bringing server-grade performance to PC form factors. DDR5 brings new features such as double bank groups, same bank refresh, on-die ECC (error correction code) and dual subchannels. This enables higher bandwidth and capacity, lower power consumption , and improved data protection due to the on-die ECC. The first CPU with DDR5 support was Intel’s 12th Gen Alder Lake, which launched in late 2021. More CPUs, including for the datacenter, are expected to launch in 2022.
Innodisk said that its new product, a 4800MT/s 32GB DDR5 UDIMM, is already making its way to the market, citing a design win with a company that designs workstations for engineering and other related applications. Nevertheless, the memory could also be used for other applications, such as server and embedded applications in surveillance and healthcare.
Innodisk’s full DDR5 portfolio includes form factors such as UDIMM, SODIMM and DRIMM, both with or without ECC. Innodisk further says that it is sampling a wide temperature UDIMM that reduces the minimum operating temperature from 0°C to -40°C. All DRAM modules are available in 16GB to 32GB capacities.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
