Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 95% of businesses have a customer success function Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Gainsight, in partnership with benchmarking research firm RevOps Squared , has completed a study on the strategies and benefits of customer success programs within high-growth companies. The resulting report yields several insights on the contribution of customer success, most notably that companies that reported the highest net revenue retention (NRR) rates also reported investing 10% of revenue in their customer success management (CSM) and customer success operations (CSops) teams.
Gainsight embarked on the study with the goal of understanding the current state of customer success programs, including what executives are focusing on in 2022, the challenges they face, and how they are scaling their customer success operations.
For example, 95% of respondents said customer success is well-defined or present within their companies. Clearly, business-to-business (B2B) companies of all sizes are prioritizing customer success.
It’s also clear that strategic, data-driven investments make a huge difference to the bottom line. According to Gainsight’s study, companies that reported the highest NRR also reported investing 10% of revenue in their customer success and CSops teams.
Unsurprisingly, customer success responsibilities tie directly to business value. Per the Gainsight study, churn reduction and product adoption were top priorities indicated by 83% and 81% of respondents, respectively.
“This data mirrors what we’re hearing from our customers, which is that product experience and customer success connect directly to revenue,” said Kellie Capote, chief customer officer at Gainsight. “This report highlights the quick wins and growth opportunities available to digital-focused companies over the next year. Armed with this information, every organization can invest in the people, solutions and strategies to create a company-wide customer success culture that drives revenue and ensures success for all.” More than 350 companies across a range of size, industry segments and geographies participated in the research.
Read the full report by Gainsight and RevOps Squared.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
