Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Satisfy your wanderlust while making money with this TEFL certification Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Backpacking through Europe may have been your teenage dream, but it seems that ship has now sailed and you’re exploring other avenues to fulfill your wanderlust. What if you could work your way around the world while teaching others how to speak the language that’s your mother tongue? With a TEFL certification , you can combine your love of travel while earning a potentially lucrative salary.
As the world becomes smaller (figuratively, of course) thanks to ease of travel, organizations are growing globally, and international trade is ever-expanding. Being the most spoken language in the world, with over 1.1 billion speakers , and the prevailing language in more than 60 countries, it is not shocking that English has dominated. It should also come as no surprise that, according to the International TEFL Academy, there are 1.5 billion people yearning to learn the language.
Sounds like an opportunity to us. All those students need a teacher, and it could be you. While there is software out there that can teach English , that hasn’t diminished the demand for TEFL teachers. The TEFL Academy estimates that over 100,000 positions open up every year and most pay very well.
 The added bonus is that you can work practically anywhere you want. Of course, if you’d rather keep your two feet on home soil, you could also opt to teach online.
Whatever your choice, this training bundle is going to prepare you to become certified to teach English as a foreign language.
 With over 100 hours of content and 18 modules, you will develop the skills you need in order to teach a range of multi-language learners using the latest teaching methodologies. You will learn how to make grammar, pronunciation, vocabulary, reading, and writing for the non-English speaking student easy and fun, while gaining understanding of lesson planning and classroom management. Through the additional two courses in the bundle, you will gain a deeper insight of learning styles and training techniques, as well as developing coaching and mentoring skills that could serve you well whatever you do in life.
Available today for 84 percent off the retail price, this Complete 2021 TEFL Certification Training Bundle can be yours for only $39.99.
 Start learning today! VentureBeat Deals is a partnership between VentureBeat and StackCommerce. This post does not constitute editorial endorsement. If you have any questions about the products you see here or previous purchases, please contact StackCommerce support here.
 Prices subject to change.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
