Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: Tech leaders worry the industry may run out of compute power in the next decade Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Fifty-three percent of enterprise technology leaders are worried they will run out of computing power in the next decade — one of several challenges hindering organizations as they look to scale up artificial intelligence initiatives, according to a new report by SambaNova Systems.
With AI and ML becoming ubiquitous across industries, it has the same potential to refactor the Fortune 500 as the internet has had over the past several decades. But as the AI revolution accelerates, there’s a burgeoning gulf between the haves and the have-nots. That is, a growing number of top companies have figured out how to deploy AI initiatives at scale, gaining a competitive edge against businesses that have yet to do so.
So, why are some enterprises reaping the benefits of AI, while others are at risk of being left behind? The report’s findings show most people are hopeful about the potential of AI and ML technologies; two-thirds of technology leaders plan to significantly increase their AI and ML investments over the next five years. Furthermore, more than three-quarters (78%) say that AI and ML is critical for driving revenue.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! But even as organizations look to AI to drive innovation and revenue, many remain in the early stages of implementing AI and ML initiatives — with plenty of barriers holding them back. More than half cite customizing AI models as their top challenge, while around one-third blame insufficient computing infrastructure (35%) or a lack of trained talent (28%).
In the years ahead, enterprises are tasked with untangling the complexities of scaling AI/ML to keep pace with competitors. AI will only continue to rapidly expand and evolve, leaving technology leaders to determine which use cases will drive revenue and innovation for their business, and identify how to deploy AI technologies at an enterprise level.
For this report, SambaNova surveyed 600 AI and ML, data, research, customer experience and cloud infrastructure leaders across six industries.
Read the full report by SambaNova.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
