Account overview Billing Profile Emails & marketing Data privacy Settings Help Comments & replies Sign out switch to the US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition current edition: The Guardian - Back to home News US news World news Environment US politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA NHL F1 Golf Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money What term do you want to search? Search with google Support us Print subscriptions US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Facebook Twitter Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show More Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Sarah Silverman UK publishers urge Sunak to protect works ingested by AI models Publishers Association’s call comes as ChatGPT firm argues US lawsuit ‘misconceives scope’ of copyright law Published: 31 Aug 2023 UK publishers urge Sunak to protect works ingested by AI models Sarah Silverman sues OpenAI and Meta claiming AI training infringed copyright US comedian and two other authors say artificial intelligence models used their work without permission Published: 10 Jul 2023 Sarah Silverman sues OpenAI and Meta claiming AI training infringed copyright Seth Meyers on Republicans: ‘No interest in improving the lives of working people’ Late-night hosts discuss the GOP’s unserious reaction to the toxic train derailment in Ohio, as well as more UFO speculation and Elon Musk’s insecurities Published: 16 Feb 2023 Seth Meyers on Republicans: ‘No interest in improving the lives of working people’ Colbert on Nikki Haley’s campaign video: ‘Some classic culture-war red meat’ Published: 15 Feb 2023 Colbert on Nikki Haley’s campaign video: ‘Some classic culture-war red meat’ Stephen Colbert: ‘It could be aliens, it could be balloons, or it could be alien balloons’ Published: 14 Feb 2023 Stephen Colbert: ‘It could be aliens, it could be balloons, or it could be alien balloons’ 4 out of 5 stars.
The Bedwetter review – Sarah Silverman musical is a crude but kind success 4 out of 5 stars.
The comic’s memoir, about trauma and incontinence, lands on stage after a long delay with wit, depth and fart jokes Published: 7 Jun 2022 The Bedwetter review – Sarah Silverman musical is a crude but kind success 3 out of 5 stars.
Sarah Silverman review – after a year of exile from the stage, a standup looks inward 3 out of 5 stars.
Silverman shifts away from shock-peddling and scripted jokes in a Q&A that comes alive when she reflects on comedy itself Published: 7 Mar 2021 Sarah Silverman review – after a year of exile from the stage, a standup looks inward Curses! Nicolas Cage to examine history of swearwords for Netflix The Oscar-winner will host six-part series, with each episode focusing on a single expletive Published: 9 Dec 2020 Curses! Nicolas Cage to examine history of swearwords for Netflix 'Gloriously daft': Steve Martin at 75 by Sarah Silverman, Lucy Porter, David Baddiel and more He’s a master of slapstick, a surrealist clown, the don of comic film roles from Roxanne to The Jerk. As he turns 75, comics including Reginald D Hunter and Rose Matafeo pay tribute to the hilarious majesty of Steve Martin Published: 11 Aug 2020 'Gloriously daft': Steve Martin at 75 by Sarah Silverman, Lucy Porter, David Baddiel and more Lost in showbiz Gal Gadot and friends singing to us about self-isolation? That’s a bit rich We’re too worried about contagion, lost income and feral gangs to watch millionaires singing Imagine in mansions. Aren’t we? Published: 19 Mar 2020 Gal Gadot and friends singing to us about self-isolation? That’s a bit rich Best culture of the 21st century The 50 best comedians of the 21st century From apocalyptic standup Frankie Boyle to the many hilarious faces of Tina Fey, Steve Coogan, Sharon Horgan and Kristen Wiig, we present the funniest people of the era Published: 18 Sep 2019 The 50 best comedians of the 21st century Sarah Silverman: I was fired from film after blackface photo resurfaced The comedian says she was let go from a movie project after producers became aware of a 2007 comedy sketch in which she wore blackface Published: 12 Aug 2019 Sarah Silverman: I was fired from film after blackface photo resurfaced Sarah Silverman: ‘I cringe at material I did 10 years ago' The comic’s career is littered with controversies. So what would she delete from her history? As she stars in Ralph Breaks the Internet, Silverman discusses 4chan, Trump and bad gags Published: 1 Dec 2018 Sarah Silverman: ‘I cringe at material I did 10 years ago' Ask Hadley Louis CK’s friends were complicit in his sexual misconduct – Sarah Silverman should admit it Published: 24 Oct 2018 Louis CK’s friends were complicit in his sexual misconduct – Sarah Silverman should admit it Sarah Silverman apologises after Louis CK masturbation comments Published: 23 Oct 2018 Sarah Silverman apologises after Louis CK masturbation comments Sarah Silverman: ‘There are jokes I made 15 years ago I would absolutely not make today’ Sarah Silverman’s comedy has always aimed a laser into the dark corners of sexism and racism. Now she’s using her wit to make sense of the issues facing America. Sophie Heawood meets her in Hollywood Published: 19 Nov 2017 Sarah Silverman: ‘There are jokes I made 15 years ago I would absolutely not make today’ Sarah Silverman on Louis CK: 'Can you love someone who did bad things?' The comedian says she is ‘very angry’ about the sexual misconduct allegations but ‘also sad, because he’s my friend’ Published: 16 Nov 2017 Sarah Silverman on Louis CK: 'Can you love someone who did bad things?' Can Sarah Silverman use comedy to bridge America's political divide? In her new Hulu series I Love You, America, the comic will attempt to reach across the aisle and, hopefully, generate laughs in the process Published: 11 Oct 2017 Can Sarah Silverman use comedy to bridge America's political divide? Film blog The Book of Henry is a catastrophically awful film. Everyone should see it Tonally it jerks from syrupy to shrill and it is filled with A-list actors working without conviction. This is a film to be studied in What Not to Do classes Published: 22 Jun 2017 The Book of Henry is a catastrophically awful film. Everyone should see it 3 out of 5 stars.
Dying Laughing review – savagely funny documentary about standup 3 out of 5 stars.
Sarah Silverman, Jerry Seinfeld, Chris Rock, Stewart Lee, Garry Shandling and Victoria Wood feature in this film about the craft and catharsis of comedy Published: 16 Jun 2017 Dying Laughing review – savagely funny documentary about standup About 90 results for Sarah Silverman 1 Topics Comedy (Culture) Television TV comedy Comedy (Stage) Comedy films Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top Close
