Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Activision drops new details on Warzone Pacific map Caldera debuting December 8 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Warzone's Caldera map is coming on December 8.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Call of Duty: Warzone is getting its first really new map on December 8 in the form of Caldera , the Warzone Pacific map set in Call of Duty: Vanguard.
It’s the first major map change since the debut of Warzone in March 2020, when the pandemic-driven lockdowns drove audience levels for the free-to-play battle royale to more than 100 million. Of course, this is the second map change if you count the redo of the Verdansk map in April 2021 to an earlier time period (it was still pretty similar to the original map).
The map will figure a new dedicated playlist (of new scenario types) with new vehicles and weapons from Call of Duty: Vanguard. The huge map has 15 distinct areas to explore and fight across. In order for Vanguard players to access Warzone Pacific 24 hours early, they need to have played at least one Vanguard multiplayer game.
Above: Warzone’s Caldera map has 15 sections.
As part of the Season One update, Ricochet Anti-Cheat will deploy a new, internally developed kernel-level driver on PC to assist in identifying cheaters in Warzone. This kernel-level driver is coming first to Warzone and will be required for all PC players as of this update.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Caldera and Warzone Pacific are just the start of the free content to be offered in Season One of Call of Duty: Vanguard and Warzone. More info is coming on two free functional weapons, new Operators, Zombies content, multiplayer modes, and two new multiplayer maps all launching on December 8.
Above: Caldera’s views of the ocean.
Later in the seasons, fans can expect two more Operators, an additional core Multiplayer map and returning small-team tactical mode, additional Zombies info, another free weapon unlocked via challenges, and a festive celebration across both games.
The map has a series of locations including arsenal, docks, runway, ruins, mines, peak, beachhead, village, power plant, capital, resort, sub pen, lagoon, airfield, and fields. The map has hundreds of lesser points of interest as well. In terms of competition, Battlefield 2042 is already out, and Halo: Infinite debuts on December 8.
Activision said Vanguard Royale has a few differences compared to a traditional battle royale. Players can fly fighter planes that rain down fire on foes or head for the anti-aircraft guns or trucks to shoot them out of the skies. Other ground-based vehicles, including a squad transport all-terrain car, will help your squad cut through and around the island.
One of the big changes is that it will focus on World War II weapons, not modern weapons. Loadouts can only contain Vanguard weaponry, streamlining the meta for more accessibility and room for experimentation. Expect all weapons around the island to also be from Vanguard. Operator selection is also limited to Vanguard soldiers. So that gets rid of anachronistic gameplay anomalies.
The radii and times for circle collapses will be altered to offer a different pace of play, especially with dogfighting overhead. Also, expect an in-game event at each circle collapse, bombing runs, and different items both within Caldera’s overworld and contract rewards.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
