Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon launches SageMaker Canvas for no-code AI model development Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Amazon logo is seen at the Young Entrepreneurs fair in Paris Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
During a keynote address today at its re:Invent 2021 conference, Amazon announced SageMaker Canvas, which enables users to create machine learning models without having to write any code. Using SageMaker Canvas, Amazon Web Services (AWS) customers can run a machine learning workflow with a point-and-click user interface to generate predictions and publish the results.
Low- and no-code platforms allow developers and non-developers alike to create software through visual dashboards instead of traditional programming. Adoption is on the rise, with a recent OutSystems report showing that 41% of organizations were using a low- or no-code tool in 2019/2020, up from 34% in 2018/2019.
“Now, business users and analysts can use Canvas to generate highly accurate predictions using an intuitive, easy-to-use interface,” AWS CEO Adam Selipsky said onstage. “Canvas uses terminology and visualizations already familiar to [users] and complements the data analysis tools that [people are] already using.” AI without code With Canvas, Selipsky says that customers can browse and access petabytes of data from both cloud and on-premises data sources, such as Amazon S3, Redshift databases, as well as local files. Canvas uses automated machine learning technology to create models, and once the models are created, users can explain and interpret the models and share the models with each other to collaborate and enrich insights.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “With Canvas, we’re making it even easier to prepare and gather data for machine learning to train models faster and expand machine learning to an even broader audience,” Selipsky added. “It’s really going to enable a whole new group of users to leverage their data and to use machine learning to create new business insights.” Canvas follows on the heels of SageMaker improvements released earlier in the year, including Data Wrangler, Feature Store, and Pipelines. Data Wrangler recommends transformations based on data in a target dataset and applies these transformations to features. Feature Store acts as a storage component for features and can access features in either batches or subsets. As for Pipelines, it allows users to define, share, and reuse each step of an end-to-end machine learning workflow with preconfigured customizable workflow templates while logging each step in SageMaker Experiments.
With upwards of 82% of firms saying that custom app development outside of IT is important, Gartner predicts that 65% of all apps will be created using low- and no-code platforms like Canvas by 2024. Another study reports that 85% of 500 engineering leaders think that low- and no-code will be commonplace within their organizations as soon as 2021.
If the current trend holds, the market for low- and no-code could climb to between $13.3 billion and $17.7 billion in 2021 and between $58.8 billion and $125.4 billion in 2027.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
