Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Report: 37% of IT admins fear software vulnerabilities more than cyber threats Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
According to a new survey from cloud directory service JumpCloud , security is the top concern among IT admins, with 37% fearing software vulnerability the most.
Many people in enterprises today worry about security issues , starting with executive management, CISOs, and security teams. IT administrators still remain on the front lines, however, tasked with managing user devices, identities, and access to all IT resources.
When asked to rank their biggest concerns on a sliding scale, IT admins told JumpCloud that security breaches, hacker attacks, and ransomware are the top three. These include vulnerability exploits (37%), ransomware (35%), use of unsecured networks (33%), and use of the same password across different applications (30%).
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Respondents also gave real-world examples, such as an employee that clicked on a bad link that cost the company $680,000. Another respondent found ransomware on the company president’s machine.
In addition, the great resignation sweeping the global economy has hit IT teams hard. One respondent reported losing two IT admins in the same month, and, worst of all, was unable to find qualified replacements.
Finally, remote work remains a major adjustment for organizations. Managing devices, user access, identity management, systems, networks, applications, and more is a significant source of stress. While respondents had to adjust within days due to COVID-19 last year, challenges such as lack of hybrid security remain. One respondent said, “An internal server went down, which caused everyone at home having to come into the office to connect to the Wi-Fi to enable their connections to be restarted.” The JumpCloud survey asked 509 U.S.-based and 503 U.K.-based IT professionals about their biggest fears and their scariest IT experiences over the past year.
Read the full report by JumpCloud.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
