Account overview Billing Profile Emails & marketing Data privacy Settings Help Comments & replies Sign out switch to the US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition current edition: The Guardian - Back to home News US news World news Environment US politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA NHL F1 Golf Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money What term do you want to search? Search with google Support us Print subscriptions US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Facebook Twitter Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show More US World Environment US Politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Dell ‘Those who hate AI are insecure’: inside Hollywood’s battle over artificial intelligence ‘We are at a cocktail party pretending we know what we’re talking about,’ an editor said. But it’s clear the role of AI in cinema is dividing the industry Published: 26 May 2023 ‘Those who hate AI are insecure’: inside Hollywood’s battle over artificial intelligence Dell to cut 5% of global workforce as ‘uncertain future’ looms US-based PC maker makes move in order to reduce costs as ‘market conditions continue to erode’ Published: 6 Feb 2023 Dell to cut 5% of global workforce as ‘uncertain future’ looms Dell pulls energy-hungry gaming PCs in six US states after failing efficiency rules Manufacturer halts shipments of some Alienware Aurora R10 and R12 PCs because they use so much energy they breach state standards Published: 28 Jul 2021 Dell pulls energy-hungry gaming PCs in six US states after failing efficiency rules 4 out of 5 stars.
Dell XPS 13 2020 review: a fantastic but flawed laptop 4 out of 5 stars.
Latest top-of-the-line Dell is a brilliant machine with a great screen in a tiny body, but is let down badly by software problems Published: 9 Jul 2020 Dell XPS 13 2020 review: a fantastic but flawed laptop Your problems, with Anna Tims No support from Dell over GP's IT crisis in Covid-19 pandemic Published: 29 Apr 2020 No support from Dell over GP's IT crisis in Covid-19 pandemic Planned obsolescence: the outrage of our electronic waste mountain Published: 15 Apr 2020 Planned obsolescence: the outrage of our electronic waste mountain Ask Jack Which is the best PC for someone who has Parkinson’s? Richard wants a laptop for its flatter keys, but desktop PCs can have any keyboard type Published: 23 Jan 2020 Which is the best PC for someone who has Parkinson’s? Today in Focus The ups and downs of Jamie Oliver Fifteen Cornwall, one of Jamie Oliver’s last UK restaurants, shut last week with 100 job losses. Anna Berrill and Sarah Butler look at what went wrong for the celebrity chef. Also: Annie Kelly on a landmark legal case in the US against the world’s largest tech companies Podcast Published: 10:00 PM The ups and downs of Jamie Oliver Exploitation in focus Apple and Google named in US lawsuit over Congolese child cobalt mining deaths Dell, Microsoft and Tesla also among tech firms named in case brought by families of children killed or injured while mining in DRC Published: 5:28 AM Apple and Google named in US lawsuit over Congolese child cobalt mining deaths Ask Jack How do I find a laptop that can be upgraded or repaired? Colin wants a laptop with easily replaceable parts such as memory and hard drives Published: 17 Oct 2019 How do I find a laptop that can be upgraded or repaired? What’s the best gaming laptop to replace a MacBook Air for Minecraft? Robert is looking for a laptop that has a keyboard like an old MacBook Air Published: 26 Sep 2019 What’s the best gaming laptop to replace a MacBook Air for Minecraft? Ask Jack How do I set up an ergonomic home office? What’s the best ergonomic keyboard and computer? Published: 1 Aug 2019 How do I set up an ergonomic home office? Ask Jack Can I buy a future-proof laptop to last 10 years? Ed wants to buy a Windows laptop that will last as long as possible, and is willing to pay up to £2,000 Published: 30 May 2019 Can I buy a future-proof laptop to last 10 years? Ask Jack How can I increase my laptop’s storage space? Marex has run out of space for music and graphic design work; thankfully, adding an SSD is easy Published: 16 May 2019 How can I increase my laptop’s storage space? Ask Jack What is the best computer monitor for under £200? Keith has just switched to a Windows desktop PC and needs a good monitor to go with it Published: 18 Oct 2018 What is the best computer monitor for under £200? Ask Jack Should I replace my old PC or upgrade it with an SSD? Iain has an unusably slow desktop. Will a £300 upgrade revive it, or should he put the money towards a new machine? Published: 4 Oct 2018 Should I replace my old PC or upgrade it with an SSD? Ask Jack What's the best laptop for university under £600? Linda’s history-studying son needs a portable computer. Which model would deliver value for money on a budget? Published: 30 Aug 2018 What's the best laptop for university under £600? From Virgin to Tesla: why companies go cool on public ownership Published: 9 Aug 2018 From Virgin to Tesla: why companies go cool on public ownership Ask Jack What’s the best gaming PC for under £1,000? Published: 9 Aug 2018 What’s the best gaming PC for under £1,000? Big tech, desperate cities Cities need to stop selling out to big tech companies. There's a better way Greg LeRoy and Maryann Feldman Fostering local hi-tech success doesn’t have to mean offering huge tax breaks to companies like Apple and Amazon. Here are some alternative strategies Published: 3 Jul 2018 Published: 3 Jul 2018 Cities need to stop selling out to big tech companies. There's a better way About 180 results for Dell 1 … next Topics Computing Laptops Hewlett-Packard Microsoft Apple US World Environment US Politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top Close
