Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Opinion Facebook stops just short of rebranding to ‘The Web’ Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Facebook changed its corporate name to Meta today.
Facebook.com is still Facebook.com, though. This is a move to embrace the metaverse, which is a concept that many tech-industry executives and investors view as the future of the internet. But it also feels like a poorly timed attempt to capitalize on a buzzword that has already lost much of its meaning.
Aspirationally, the metaverse is an alternate reality that lives online. Functionally, however, the metaverse is a platform or series of platforms that share interoperable code to enable individuals to carry their online identities and (more importantly) their purchases from one experience to the next.
This concept is popular with investors, which is one reason why Facebook is planting its flag so firmly into the space. Well, that and because Facebook has poisoned its name with regular scandals.
But metaverse isn’t a buzzword because it is the future. It’s popular because it is already making money in the present.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The temptation for many industry observers is to point to VR apps as the obvious future of the metaverse. Meanwhile, massive connected platforms like Roblox are building giant, connected worlds.
 For a new generation of internet users, Roblox already provides many of the key elements that metaverse latecomers like Zuckerberg are still trying to figure out.
Roblox enables you to carry your character and digital wallet from one game to the next. Your cosmetics carry over, so you can always express yourself through your purchases. And the platform has no shortage of content because Roblox already has a robust user-generated-content system that is regularly producing new hit experiences.
Meta is already an outdated name What is especially odd about Facebook’s new name is that it already feels old. While investors and executives love to throw around “metaverse” in earnings calls and conference panels, the public seems generally less excited.
That lack of enthusiasm is likely do to an absence of vision. People don’t care how they fit into some tech executive’s online petting zoo. They care about what the technology does for their specific needs. For adults, how do these tools enable new opportunities for commerce? Wider audiences, meanwhile, look to platforms to empower their social connections.
And those communities are finding answers to those needs on platforms like Roblox, Fortnite, and VRChat without ever even learning the term “metaverse” in the first place. Professionals who make content for Roblox have begun saying the term more frequently, but that’s only because it increases attractiveness to investors.
By the time Meta figures out its metaverse business model, few people will use that word to describe any of this. It’ll sound strange in the same way “World Wide Web” does today.
Meta would be like Microsoft changing its name to The Web in 1999 — only, somehow, even worse.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
