Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Nreal unveils lightweight Nreal Air AR glasses for entertainment Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Nreal Air weighs only 2.7 ounces.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Nreal is one of the few companies still standing from the early wave of augmented reality glasses makers. And today it is unveiling the second-generation Nreal Air glasses with big improvements.
The goal of the Beijing-based company is to keep moving fast on the leading edge of the technology and create multiple generations of products so that it can be ready with the right one when the AR market takes off. The company is pitching the device as a “portable movie theater.” The newest glasses weigh just 2.7 ounces (77 grams), and they’re smaller and more compact than the Nreal Light glasses (100 grams) that the company launched in 2019, said Nreal CEO Chi Xu in an interview with GamesBeat.
Xu said that advancements in AR technology have accelerated exponentially since Nreal Light was first unveiled. And that makes smaller and more compact augmented reality technology available. The company has also designed the new glasses for specific applications, such as streaming TV shows and playing mobile games.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Above: Nreal Air looks like a pair of sunglasses.
“We got the Nreal light into hands in 2019, and it was like a concise version of the HoloLens,” Xu said. “We thought it would be great for productivity, but it turned out most of the usage was entertainment and media consumption.” The aim is to create an immersive experience in a form factor indistinguishable from daily worn sunglasses. Xu didn’t disclose the exact tech details, but he said the Nreal Air boasts the best display on the market available for any AR device, as it is capable of projecting up to a (simulated) 201-inch virtual display, when viewed at a distance of six meters, which is well suited for watching multimedia content.
The glasses will still be tethered to your smartphone, just like the Nreal Light. But the glasses are about a third lighter and are more comfortable to wear than many previous AR glasses, Xu said.
The glasses have an adjustable three-step rake system, which enables users to adjust the viewing angle by tilting the lens, and elastic temples that tightly hug the head and won’t slip. Nreal Air’s design has an outward-facing camera to focus on the theater experience. At 46 degrees, the glasses have a wider field of view than the previous glasses.
Rivals include the Microsoft HoloLens, the Magic Leap One, and whatever mysterious object Apple is working on but never revealing.
Impressive specs Above: Side view of the Nreal Air.
The device has a micro-OLED display. Nreal Air’s display has a high density of colors, with as many as 49 pixels per degree (PPD). This ensures that fine details are clearly visible and enhances the realism of the content, Xu said. And it has a refresh rate of up to 90Hz, and the features don’t drain the phone’s battery.
“We put a lot of resources into image quality and color,” Xu said.
It is also compatible with Apple iOS devices, a rarity in that it will support both iPhones and iPads, and will also be compatible with most Android devices.
Xu found that 78% of users in South Korea used Nreal Light to watch streaming content. Nreal will first launch Nreal Air in December 2021 in three Asian markets: Japan, China, and South Korea in partnership with leading carriers. Nreal Air’s roll out to other markets will continue through to 2022. Pricing will be determined by local carrier partners but will retail at a fraction of the price of Nreal Light.
The company is planning to take the Nreal Light product into enterprises, while the Nreal Air will focus on consumers. The Nreal Light Developer Kit is available for order here.
As one of the survivors, Nreal has been able to raise more than $185 million to date. The first glasses debuted in South Korea, Japan, and Europe. Xu said the company has more than 250 employees. Xu said he believes the headquarters in China is an advantage.
“We are closer to the supply chain and we can move faster,” he said. “We go early and we go first. We can get the early market share.” GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
