Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Deals Manage your Apple devices from your Windows computer with this $9 device management solution Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
It’s a phenomenon that Apple loyalists are far too familiar with: every time the company introduces a new slate of products, your current device mysteriously malfunctions. It’s not a conspiracy—not really. Planned obsolescence is a real thing, and it’s not only Apple that’s guilty of such. But the Cupertino tech giant does it in a more deliberate manner, resulting in lawsuits that fine them for slowing down their own devices like iPhones.
With the company having just introduced new iPhones , users are already complaining about how their old phones are suddenly going kaput. If you happen to be one of them and are looking to upgrade, you have to prepare for the painstaking process of moving data from one device to another.
You won’t encounter that problem with iTools Premium. It’s a tool that lets you transfer music and export photos in two ways between your Apple device and computer without any risk of losing data when syncing your iPhone from the computer. It allows for seamless transfer of files, as well as backing up and restoring of data. You can get it on sale for an extra 40% off with the code VIP40.
Another underrated feature of iTools is location spoofing, where you trick your device into telling apps that you’re located somewhere you’re not. It’s especially useful in cases like gaming, where GPS is an important factor. With iTools, you can simulate your preferred location to your mobile devices through your desktop with no trouble.
Data extraction and migration shouldn’t be hard. With iTools, you can manage your iPhone and iPads from a Windows computer sans the hassle. A lifetime license usually costs $30, but if you key in the code VIP40 at checkout, you can enjoy a massive discount and get it for only $8.99.
VentureBeat Deals is a partnership between VentureBeat and StackCommerce. This post does not constitute editorial endorsement. If you have any questions about the products you see here or previous purchases, please contact StackCommerce support here.
 Prices subject to change.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
