Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Deals Strengthen your knowledge base with StackSkills and Infosec4TC for just pennies a course Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics , as adults, we have changed our jobs on average 12 times during the ages of 18 and 50. Obviously, that’s just spanning a period of 32 years, and with more and more people working into their later years, the number is undoubtedly higher. The reasons why vary, but one could simply be that we haven’t found or are unaware of our passion. Perhaps if we were given the opportunity to develop new skills and explore new careers from the comfort of our own home, we might be more apt to find a job we love and stick to it. That’s where both StackSkills and Infosec4TC Cyber Security Training can help.
StackSkills has access to a pre-selected library of over 1,000 courses in practically every field you could dream of–marketing, finance, IT, programming, design, art, animation, writing … the list goes on. Whether you’re looking for that dream job, hoping to rise in the ranks of your current organization, wanting to start a side hustle, or just have a yearning to improve your skills either personally or professionally, you’re bound to find the course that’s going to lead you down the right path. And the beauty is you will have unlimited lifetime access to all of them.
In addition, you will have access to over 90 courses through the Infosec4TC Cyber Security Training , including classes in ethical hacking, GSEC, CISSP, ISMS Implementation, and so many more. If it’s a certificate you’re after, Infosec4TC has the highest passing rate. Businesses worldwide are changing how they approach cybersecurity. With this training, you will be at the forefront of how to deal with tomorrow’s challenges.
Job openings are on the rise again.
 Be sure to stand out from the crowd by strengthening your knowledge base. Through both or either of these bundles, you will be able to focus on an area of interest or try something completely new. Normally valued at $3,000, this unparalleled deal can be yours for $79.99 –that’s just pennies per course! VentureBeat Deals is a partnership between VentureBeat and StackCommerce. This post does not constitute editorial endorsement. If you have any questions about the products you see here or previous purchases, please contact StackCommerce support here.
 Prices subject to change.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
