Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages PlayStation 5’s messy SSD expansion options should clear up quickly Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn You don't need to do this to add an SSD, but it might feel like it.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Sony confirmed this morning that its new PlayStation 5 beta software enables console owners to upgrade their storage.
 This activates the built-in M.2 SSD expansion slot, so you can bring your own NVMe PCIe Gen4 drive to the system. And while it’s exciting to have the potential for more fast storage on your console, Sony’s messaging makes the process seem messy and potentially dangerous to your PS5. But these warnings are probably just Sony’s lawyer covering its butt.
PS5 owners are concerned about a few key things. First, even if you have NVMe PCIe Gen4 SSD with the recommended read speed of 5,500MB per second, it may not work. Also, Sony suggests that you use a heatsink with your SSD, and that may not fit into the PS5’s enclosure. If you don’t use a heatsink, you may risk your PS5 getting dangerously hot.
And yes, that all sounds a bit more intense and intimidating than you want from a console. Sony’s expansion options also look even more confusing when compared to the one official 1TB expansion option for the Xbox Series X/S. And it’s not like one is much cheaper than the other, either. The Xbox expansion card is $220, and a 1TB NVMe Gen4 SSD starts at around that same price. And even worse, Sony says that your SSD may not perform as well as the internal drive even if it’s fast enough. That is not an issue with the Xbox option.
What all of this comes down to is a lot of variables, exceptions, and uncertainties for a component that will cost you hundreds of dollars. But instead of worrying, I would suggest you simply wait.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Let others do the testing for you I expected Sony to come out with a whitelist of approved SSD drives alongside this update. It’s strange that it didn’t, and that’s a big reason people are feeling lost right now. But the reality is that you don’t have to do your own research, and you certainly shouldn’t randomly buy blind. The PlayStation 5 community should crowdsource this effort quickly.
Some PS5 owners have already begun to test SSDs. Over on Reddit, a megathread is tracking known compatible drives.
 So far, it has two: the Corsair MP600, and the Seagate FireCuda 530.
But expect that list to grow. And by the time the PlayStation’s new software is out of beta, we should all know the widely accepted go-to drives. I even plan to do some testing myself if Sony accepts me into the beta. For now, however, I’m not sweating it. I’ll continue deleting my games, and I’ll buy a drive once the wisdom of the crowd settles on a clear winner.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
