Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Deals IoT devices and apps are changing med management for the better Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
If you’ve ever felt like every doctor’s appointment ends with a new prescription, you’re probably a little overwhelmed by trying to keep your medications straight. Which ones are okay to take at night and which ones have to be taken with breakfast? Did you order a refill for that medication that’s about to run out? And did you even take those pills this morning like you were supposed to? If only there was a way for something else to keep track of your regimen and make sure you’re staying on schedule. Fortunately, technology is integrating with healthcare at an impressive rate, and patients are hopeful for more at-home tools to help them manage their medical conditions.
Enter Hero: the new way to manage your meds. Their service includes the only app-integrated automatic pill dispenser that sorts and dispenses your medications according to your prescribed schedule, send you dosage reminders via phone notifications, plus orders refills for you and delivers them directly to your door.
Getting started with the app on your device is simple. Whether you have iOS or Android, download the app and enter your medication information into your account.
Then, add up to 90 day’s worth of 10 different medications into the connected pill dispenser. When synced with the app, the pill holder sorts and distributes the right medications at the right time.
With just a push of the button, you’ll have your meds conveniently dispensed when you need them.
But Hero is about more than just convenience. When you’re dealing with polypharmacy treatment plans, keeping track of medications can be the difference between staying healthy and winding up in the hospital. The steeper costs of healthcare associated with medication adherence issues can include the costs of urgent care and hospital stays, as well as in-home medication management help.
Fortunately, lessening the burden of these costs can come directly from better medication management.
Becoming a Hero member grants you access to the dispenser, connected app and their prescription refill and delivery service.
Hero is also FSA/HSA eligible, bringing some more savings to your wallet. Plus, you can currently save $50 off your initiation fee so you can get started with better medication management as soon as possible.
“VentureBeat Deals is a partnership between VentureBeat and StackCommerce. This post does not constitute editorial endorsement. If you have any questions about the products you see here or previous purchases, please contact StackCommerce support here.
 Prices subject to change.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
