Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages ManageEngine: 8 out of 10 IT experts reported an increase in cloud use during pandemic Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Eight out of ten IT professionals reported that their company’s usage of cloud technology increased during the pandemic, according to a new global research survey by ManageEngine.
 The survey focused on trends related to artificial intelligence (AI) , business analytics , and technology.
With organizations increasingly supporting a distributed workforce, IT personnel are more willing than ever to invest in new technologies. Security, reliability, and price were the top three drivers behind organizational decisions to adopt new technologies.
The survey also found that organizations are using tools that facilitate business analytics and data-driven decision-making. The vast majority (89%) of respondents indicated that their reliance on business analytics efforts had increased over the past two years; interestingly, these efforts were primarily led by IT teams. Across the globe, 64% of respondents said that they currently use business analytics to improve their decision-making.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Confidence in AI has increased dramatically as organizations look to AI to improve operational efficiency and customer experiences. 86% of organizations have increased their AI usage over the last two years, and 81% of respondents said their confidence in AI solutions has grown. This number was even higher in India, where 91% reported increased confidence in AI solutions. Lastly, respondents said they believe that AI drives improvements in business insights, operations and customer satisfaction.
With more people than ever working remotely, companies are increasingly reliant on tools that can facilitate artificial intelligence and business analytics initiatives.
Read the full report by ManageEngine.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
