Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Nvidia lifts curtain on AI software dev platform, new AI servers at Computex Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Nvidia on Monday announced several AI computing initiatives for enterprise AI product development and operation, including unveiling the company’s cloud-hosted Base Command AI software development platform with NetApp and dozens of new x86 servers from leading OEMs that are certified to run Nvidia AI Enterprise software.
The Santa Clara, California-based chipmaker is talking up AI at Computex 2021, which is returning to Taiwan as a hybrid in-person and virtual event this week after the cancellation of 2020’s expo due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Nvidia and the National Energy Research Scientific Computing Center (NERSC) last week flipped the “on” switch for Perlmutter, billed as the world’s fastest supercomputer for AI workloads.
The new Base Command platform gives developers access to the cloud-hosted computing power of Nvidia DGX SuperPOD AI supercomputers and NetApp data management tools. It is available to early access customers through a $90,000 monthly subscription, Nvidia said in press briefing last week.
Nvidia touted Base Command as a way for enterprise developers to “quickly move their AI projects from prototypes to production” with software designed “for large-scale, multi-user and multi-team AI development workflows hosted either on-premises or in the cloud,” the company said. The software development platform enables numerous researchers and data scientists to “simultaneously work on accelerated computing resources, helping enterprises maximize the productivity of both their expert developers and their valuable AI infrastructure,” the company said.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Base Command offers a single pane of glass interface to view AI software development on integrated monitoring and reporting dashboards, with command line APIs available. Among the AI developer tools included are Nvidia’s NGC catalog of AI and analytics software, APIs for integrating with MLOps software, and Jupyter notebooks, the chipmaker said.
New x86 servers certified for Nvidia AI Enterprise workloads Nvidia also announced the availability of new AI-optimized servers from major computer manufacturers as part of its Nvidia-certified systems program. These new systems are certified to run Nvidia AI Enterprise software and are either available now or coming later this year from OEMs. Participating companies include Advantech, Altos, ASRock Rack, Asus, Dell Technologies, Gigabyte, Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Lenovo, Nettrix, QCT, and Supermicro.
New x86 servers based on Nvidia Ampere architecture GPUs are available now, the company said. Nvidia-certified systems using BlueField-2 DPUs will come out later this year and non-x86 machines powered by Arm CPUs will arrive in 2022.
“Enterprises across every industry need to support their innovative work in AI on traditional datacenter infrastructure,” Nvidia head of enterprise computing Manuvir Das said in a statement. “The open, growing ecosystem of Nvidia-certified systems provides unprecedented customer choice in servers validated by Nvidia to power world-class AI.” Das said the new servers will become “some of the highest-volume x86 servers used in mainstream datacenters, bringing the power of AI to a wide range of industries, including health care, manufacturing, retail, and financial services.” The new Nvidia-certified systems are expected to run software such as the Nvidia AI Enterprise suite of AI and data analytics software on VMware vSphere, Nvidia Omniverse Enterprise for design collaboration and advanced simulation, and Red Hat OpenShift for AI development, with additional support for Cloudera data engineering and machine learning modeling tools, Das said.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
