Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Our very serious obituary for Mario Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Rip.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Once it’s midnight, Nintendo is going to execute Mario. After today, Super Mario 3D All-Stars will disappear from retail and digital store shelves, and Super Mario Bros. 35 will shut down.
Mario debuted in 1981 as the hero of the smash arcade hit Donkey Kong. His star would rise higher with the launch of Super Mario Bros. for the Nintendo Entertainment System in 1985. Since then, he’s starred in dozens of hits, including sports games, digital board games, and several critically acclaimed 2D and 3D platformers.
It’s hard coming to terms with the death of such a icon. My colleague, Jeff Grubb and I, got together to try and make sense of Mario’s demise.
Mike: Jeff, why did Mario have to die? Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Jeff: I think it’s for two main reasons: For one, he was too perfect for this world. And second, because of his crimes.
Mike: Well, obviously, we know about his crimes, so I won’t ask for elaboration there. How are you going to choose to remember Mario? I’m going to imagine his face, comfortably lost in sleep, while the credits for Super Mario Bros. 2 play. That is how I shall imagine him in his eternal rest.
Above: He’s just sleeping.
Jeff: In Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga for the Game Boy Advance, Mario and Luigi have their own language that sounds like gibberish Italian. And I’m pretty sure that in one of the sequels, Mario goes on a long rant where he just says random Italian dishes like “spaghetti lasagna prosciutto!” Or at least that is how I remember it. And that is how I will choose to always remember him: lying in a coffin while muttering Italian cuisine to himself during his sleepdeath.
Mike: Has anyone told the Rabbids? Is Rabbid Mario now the new Mario? Like, is that who we’re seeing in the new Mario Golf game , but done up with CGI to make him look more like the old Mario. You know, like Grand Moff Tarkin.
Jeff: Right? The line of succession here isn’t clear at all. It feels like we could end up with a Tonight Show fiasco here. Nintendo might try to give the job to Luigi, but then when his ratings collapse, they’ll go out and bring in someone else like Rabbid Mario. And I think that’s an inspired choice. I mean, what do you really need from Mario? He needs to wear a hat and jump, and that weird French bunny has all of that covered.
Or is this more a “Death of Superman” situation? Will we get four new Super Marios? Oh, god. I need to go do that Photoshop right now.
Above: He did, in fact, Photoshop that.
Mike: Did you know that Blizzard made that Death of Superman beat-’em-up for SNES and Genesis? Too bad they couldn’t include that in their recent retro collection.
 But at least that one is arbitrarily disappearing from store on a set date.
Is Bubsy dead yet? Has he officially outlived Mario? Jeff: I didn’t think that Bubsy outliving Mario would affect me so deeply. That’s depressing. I wish Mario could come back to life to help kill that cat.
Do you think that Biden knows about Mario dying? Mike: Yes, CNN reported earlier today that Biden had some 1-on-1 time with Mario to thank him for his service before his execution. He also got to ask him if Yoshi’s Island is a core Mario game , and he said no. So that’s good.
How are you going to explain to your children that Mario is dead? Jeff: I’m just going to make them watch the execution live. In movies, you always see families attending executions, and I want to bring that back. And who could put on a more family-friendly capital punishment than Nintendo? Before we wrap this up, should we say something about what Mario meant to us and the world? Mike: No.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
