Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Oracle offers free cloud migration to lure new customers Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
( Reuters ) — Oracle announced on Wednesday it will migrate companies’ most complicated computer programs to its cloud for free as it tries to catch a new wave of potential cloud-computing clients by aiming to save them time and money.
The pandemic prompted many businesses and governments to shift from in-house digital storage and computing to leased cloud servers from Amazon Web Services and other providers.
A laggard in the cloud industry , Oracle is counting on its free support to persuade organizations that have not made a switch — or done so only partially — to opt for a move to its infrastructure.
More than 100 customers have taken advantage of what Oracle is calling its Cloud Lift Services over the last six months, and the program is opening globally on Wednesday.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “I’ll be surprised if any customer says ‘I don’t need this,'” Vinay Kumar, a senior vice president at Oracle, told Reuters.
Over the last nine months, Oracle has shifted 1,000 workers to focus on Cloud Lift Services, Kumar said. He expects the offer will pay off for Oracle, but he declined to say how much the company has budgeted for it.
Oracle’s expertise in using its own tools efficiently and setting up applications to work smoothly on the cloud speeds transitions and reduces the risk of customers encountering errors, he said.
Rival cloud providers discount transition support but typically only for key customers or those that agree to long-term deals or minimum spending.
Kumar said Oracle is not requiring commitments, but the program is limited to what he called the “handful of applications” that would be most difficult for a customer to migrate and excludes those requiring a thorough rewrite.
Among early testers was new U.S. agribusiness client Cargill. With Oracle’s help, Cargill transitioned in weeks, not months, Kumar said.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
