Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Cloudera expands enterprise data platform to Google Cloud Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Cloudera at the New York Stock Exchange.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Enterprise data cloud company Cloudera has announced that its data platform is now available on Google Cloud.
The Palo Alto-based company launched the Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) back in 2019 , following its merger with rival Hortonworks.
 The CDP combined technologies from both companies, serving to bring a powerful data and analytics platform to hybrid and multicloud enterprises. At launch, the only public cloud CDP supported was AWS, though Azure was added to the mix shortly afterward. So today’s news has been a long time coming.
The multicloud This is a big deal for several reasons, though perhaps chiefly because it positions Cloudera as a truly platform-agnostic data platform, one that could help it capture a bigger piece of the burgeoning multicloud market. While similar services from cloud rivals such as Microsoft and Google do offer some support for competing public (and private) clouds, they were ultimately designed for their respective owner’s cloud.
Cloud infrastructure spending has skyrocketed over the past year, and reports suggest businesses are eager to segue from single cloud platform providers , lured by the promise of flexibility, a way to avoid vendor lock-in, and the inherent task-specific strengths different clouds offer. Flexera’s recent State of the Cloud report noted that 93% of enterprises now use multiple cloud service providers, a factor that has led Microsoft and Google to embrace a multicloud world, though Amazon’s AWS still has some way to go on that front.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The CDP is generally available on Google Cloud from today.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
