Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Pokémon Legends: Arceus is giving the series a glowup in 2022 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Breath of the Pokémon Wild.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
It has taken generations of game releases, but Pokémon looks like it is getting a major upgrade.
The Pokémon Company revealed Pokémon Legends: Arceus during a video presentation today, and developer Game Freak is promising that it will break new ground for the franchise. It is launching for Nintendo Switch in 2022.
“Pokémon Legends: Arceus represents a new approach to the Pokémon video series,” said Pokémon Company chief operating officer Takato Utsunomiya. “Development is in full swing at Game Freak, with the aim to deliver a gaming experience that breaks new ground for the Pokémon series.” Pokémon Legends: Arceus takes place in a historic version of the Sinnoh region. During this era, the area was still a wilderness, and the gameplay reflects that. While showing off the gameplay, The Pokémon Company emphasized open-world gameplay that looks significantly upgraded over its predecessors.
Based on what The Pokémon Company has shown so far, the obvious comparison is The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild. That game took the Zelda franchise and put it into an open-world setting. Now it seems like Pokémon Legends: Arceus will do the same thing for the pocket monsters.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! lol they did the shot pic.twitter.com/6wFNuRKZbO — Akfamilyhome (@Akfamilyhome) February 26, 2021 The starting Pokémon are Rowlet, Cyndaquil, or Oshawott.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
