Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Kena: Bridge of Spirits looks gorgeous and launches August 24 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Kena: Bridge of Spirits is coming this summer and looks stunning.
During Sony’s latest State of Play video event today , developer Ember Lab revealed a new trailer for the game alongside the release date. The studio is dropping the fantasy adventure August 24 for PlayStation 5 and PlayStation 4. It’s available to preorder now for $40.
In this latest gameplay video, Kena looks more like a CG film than ever before. It almost has the style of a fantasy Big Hero Six.
 The mechanics, meanwhile, seem like they are paying homage to Horizon Zero Dawn or even God of War. The game’s hero has that jaunty third-person strafe that I associate with combat in those first-party Sony games. And that makes the game feel at home on the PS5 and PS4.
Kena’s slick action and unparalleled visuals should make it an early standout for the new generation of hardware. And while it is launching a bit later than games like Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart, it may benefit from not much else coming out in the timeframe.
Ember Lab previously announced Kena is also coming to Epic Games Store on PC as well. And it is also available to preorder on that platform.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
