Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Deals They’re the world’s smallest earbuds with active noise cancellation — and they sound phenomenal Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Just one of the many lessons learned from our new COVID-tinged world is that the right pair of headphones can be an absolute game-changer.
For those looking to pick up a new pair, it’s easy to fall between the two extremes. Many are seeking out headgear built to the audiophiles for accentuating every note of your favorite music, while others are looking for mobility, portability, and overall ease of use as their prime motivator.
Thankfully, the EarFun Free Pro Active Noise Cancelling True Wireless Earbuds can help the conflicted split the difference with ample servings of both serious audio firepower and optimized convenience.
At first glance, it’s hard not to be taken with the size of the EarFun Free Pros…or more specifically, the lack of size. So small that they require a double-take or two before anyone realizes you’ve got earbuds in, these headphones that Forbes says “ deserve your attention ” feel like you aren’t wearing earbuds at all.
But don’t mistake their lack of bulk for a lack of ability. They’re billed as the world’s smallest earbuds with active noise cancellation, featuring outward-facing mics for detecting exterior sound. When they find outside noise, the drivers start producing their own anti-noise signals that actually serve to stamp down outside sound all the way up to 28dB.
That innovative approach makes your voice calls more dynamic as well, helping power your voice three times clearer to those on the other end.
Meanwhile, the EarFun Free Pros bring the goods from an audio standpoint as well. Equipped with Bluetooth 5.2 for better connection stability and a stark lack of dropout, these dual composite drivers thump, delivering superior, balanced sound with high resolution, deep satisfying bass, and sublime mids and highs.
Included with the EarFun Free Pros is also an ultra-handy carrying case charger that provides up to 32 hours of listening on a single charge.
Regularly priced at $79, you can stack a special $10 off deal on top of the already discounted price for a set of EarFun Free Pros. By using the code EARFUN10 at checkout, your final price on these stellar earbuds falls all the way to just $49.99.
Prices subject to change.
VentureBeat Deals is a partnership between VentureBeat and StackCommerce. This post does not constitute editorial endorsement. If you have any questions about the products you see here or previous purchases, please contact StackCommerce support here.
 Prices subject to change.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
