Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google Cloud announces VM Manager, a suite of tools to automate infrastructure management Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
As enterprises become more reliant on cloud-native tools, Google’s Compute Engine has become a popular choice for helping to maintain those online resources at large scales. Now Google Cloud is rolling out a new suite of infrastructure management tools to automate and simplify that work.
Dubbed VM Manager, the new toolset will include a single dashboard designed to offer greater visibility into computing projects while enabling better tracking of data. In a blog post by Google Cloud product manager Ravi Kiran Chintalapudi and product marketing manager Senanu Aggor, the company said the new service would bring greater ease and security to managing virtual machine fleets.
“Enterprises are accelerating their digital transformation — moving more and more workloads to the cloud,” they wrote. “Customers tell us they need simplified cloud-native tools to operate and manage their cloud resources, similar to their familiar on-premises infrastructure management tools.” The goal is to reduce the time teams have to spend monitoring compute infrastructure to free them to focus more on business issues.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Among the automated features included will be patch management to make sure all systems are updated to limit vulnerabilities; configuration management to validate that settings are consistent to limit errors and security issues; and better inventory management so enterprises have more real-time insight into their data.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
