Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release Rapidly Emerging Digital Health Company DiRx Raises $10 Million in Series A Funding Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn EAST BRUNSWICK, N.J.–(BUSINESS WIRE)–December 28, 2021– DiRx, a digital health company that delivers significant savings on commonly prescribed, FDA-approved generic medicines through its online pharmacy platform without the need for insurance, today announced that it has successfully raised a total of $10 million in Series A funding, updating its previous announcement of having initially raised $5.75 million in September 2021 during the first phase of the round.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20211228005157/en/ DiRx pharmacy – affordable medicine for all (Photo: Business Wire) This funding will continue to power the expansion and national market reach of its innovative pharmacy model to more Americans. Similar to its $5 million Seed Round raised last year, this Series A round was also a private placement with healthcare-specialized investors including new as well as returning participants.
With over 40 million uninsured and 80 million underinsured Americans struggling with unaffordable out-of-pocket medicine costs, the DiRx model reduces the number of supply chain layers and offers low priced options for over 1,000 FDA-approved prescription generic medications, without requiring health insurance or any discount cards or coupons.
With medicine priced as low as $3 a month, DiRx offers a 12-month price guarantee – an industry first, protecting consumers from unexpected price fluctuations that are now part of the industry norm.
In addition to its direct-to-consumer (DTC) digital platform, DiRx is also gaining significant traction with institutional (B2B) partnerships that would offer similar pharmacy benefit cost advantages to larger groups within the health ecosystem such as self-insured employers, third party administrators, benefit managers and brokers.
“We’re so glad that our team’s successful launch of a high quality and meaningful digital platform supported by a premium customer experience has powered continued investor confidence in our strategic direction and execution capabilities. We’re encouraged by our investors’ clear understanding of the economic pain points in the current system and our ability to enhance medicine access and affordability for everyday Americans.” Satish Srinivasan, Founder and CEO of DiRx “We’re delighted that Americans in over 40 states have already started ordering their prescription medicines from us within just our first few weeks of launch and, in keeping with our ‘medicine for all’ focus, we will continue to evolve our platform to reach more people, as we champion everyone’s right to affordable medicine,” added Simone Grapini-Goodman, Chief Marketing Officer.
About DiRx DiRx is an online pharmacy that delivers savings on commonly prescribed, FDA-approved generic medicines without the need for insurance. Founded by industry experts, DiRx draws a straight line from supply to demand to streamline the path between the manufacturer and the consumer. This lowers costs and makes more medicine accessible to more people. DiRx offers a viable model for businesses and community organizations while simplifying how consumers fill, pay for and receive maintenance medicine. To learn more, visit www.DiRxHealth.com.
For media inquiries, please contact DiRx media relations at press@dirxhealth.com.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20211228005157/en/ Simone Grapini-Goodman, Chief Marketing Officer Email: press@DiRxHealth.com https://www.dirxhealth.com/press VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
