Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Supercell invests $2.8 million in 2Up, a co-op mobile game studio Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn 2Up Games Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Supercell is investing $2.8 million in New Zealand game studio 2Up Games , which is working on a co-op mobile game.
This further proof of the funding frenzy games have enjoyed during the pandemic, driven in large part by heightened use. In the past nine months, game studios have seen more than 100 investments.
Supercell has been among the most aggressive mobile game investors, as the Helsinki, Finland-based company is still printing money with its Clash Royale and Clash of Clans games.
2Up cofounder Joe Raeburn said in an interview with GamesBeat that the company strongly believes co-op games can make the world a better place, particularly as people struggle with isolation during lockdown. He also believes humans aren’t always great at cooperation and need more practice.
Raeburn started the company six months ago with former Magic Leap developer Tim Knauf, and the two didn’t meet in person for the first five months they worked together.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Raeburn said his first co-op memory was playing Silkworm with his best friend on the Amiga computer, while Knast has enjoyed multiplayer point-and-click adventure games. Knast previously founded Launching Pad Games, and he worked with Magic Leap and Weta Workshop on Dr. Grordbort’s Invaders , which was one of my favorite games of 2018.
“Tim and I came together talking about our shared love of co-op games,” Raeburn said. “But too often the games are too short.” This started them thinking about games designed for co-op from the ground up.
“So we came up with this focus on real-time co-op games, ones that you can play for years,” Raeburn said. “We want to bring back that sense of connecting with someone through an experience you share. You feel like two humans that have done something together, as opposed to humans that have battled.” Above: 2Up Games is based in New Zealand.
Supercell developer relations lead Jaakko Harlas noted that this is the first time Supercell has invested in a New Zealand startup. Raeburn said the company is hiring now and that thanks to the pandemic it can hire people anywhere in the world. He noted that another bright spot is that game companies no longer need to have a head office that can lord it over their satellite offices.
Raeburn said 2Up has developed a prototype idea but isn’t ready to talk about it yet. The company has two full-time people and two contractors and is outsourcing art for the game to external companies. Raeburn worked as an early employee and game creator at Space Ape Games , maker of Samurai Siege, before the company was acquired by Supercell. About a year ago, Raeburn made the move back to his native New Zealand. During lockdown, he decided to start a game studio, which was how he met Knast.
“It’s early days, and the one thing I can say is that real-time games are quite difficult,” Raeburn said. “One of the most important things we’ve learned is allowing players to have a pause in the action so that they can look and see what their partner is doing and what they need. Because when you do that, you see the situation they are in. If it’s nonstop action all of the time, you don’t even know what your partner is doing.” Raeburn said the company talked to a few game funds but decided Supercell offered the biggest opportunity.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
