Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages China drives 5G demand for Sweden’s Ericsson Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
( Reuters ) — Sweden’s Ericsson on Monday raised its global forecast for 5G mobile subscriptions to 220 million by the end of this year, citing faster than expected uptake in China.
The telecoms equipment maker, which had previously forecast 190 million subscriptions, said it expects China to account for almost 80% of the newly forecast total.
“What has fueled the growth is China, and that is driven in itself by a strong strategic national focus on 5G in China,” head of networks Fredrik Jejdling told Reuters.
Ericsson said in its biannual Mobility Report that 2020 had seen society take a “big leap toward digitalization,” as the pandemic acted as a catalyst for rapid change and highlighted the impact connectivity has on people’s daily lives.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! About 15% of the world’s population, or 1 billion people, are expected to be in an area that would be covered by 5G by the end of the year, Jejdling said.
The company forecast 3.5 billion 5G subscriptions by the end of 2026, accounting for more than 50% of mobile data traffic, with four out of every 10 mobile subscriptions being 5G.
Ericsson, which competes with China’s Huawei and Finland’s Nokia , added that 60% of the world’s population will have access to 5G coverage in 2026.
Ericsson has won contracts from all three major operators in China to supply radio equipment for 5G networks.
The mobile network industry has faced waning demand for 4G and older network equipment, but 5G spending in North America has helped fuel a return to growth.
The new generation of mobile phone technology will bring faster data speeds and support a greater variety of connected devices.
( Reporting by Helena Soderpalm and Supantha Mukherjee, editing by Jan Harvey.
) VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
