Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Deals Why .tech domains are hot, and .com is on its way out Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
For those trying to get their new tech-based project or brand off the ground, we feel for you. Tech has been a major economic driving force for over half a century, so even if you have a revolutionary idea, carving out your own place in that uber-crowded industry is an uphill climb.
That branding doesn’t get any easier when you try to register a domain name for your new website either. After decades of companies, organizations and even trolly cybersquatters gobbling up domains like Skittles, your project is going to have to pick through whatever random names happen to be left if you want a heavily trafficked .com or .net address extension.
In fact, entrepreneurs have even been known to completely change their product name just because they couldn’t find a web address available for their preferred name choices.
But if you’re running a forward-thinking new brand like LightYears Industries, would you rather spend $381,000 buying the currently for sale LightYears.com — or instead wear your futuristic bend on your sleeve with a cool, available, and highly brandable LightYears.tech domain instead? Right now, you can stake out your place in the new .tech world with your own .tech web domain , now 80 percent off for 1-year and 5-year domain rights. That gets you 12 months at your new home on the web for as little as $4.99.
More and more organizations are brushing off the old school .com or .net addresses in favor of bright shiny new extensions like .tech , additions that bring instant identification to a new site.
Not only do you avoid creating a long-tail Frankenstein URL because it’s all that’s left in the .com space, but your short, snappy web address also gets a relevant, logical and evocative .tech extension that supplies instant context to your project or brand.
Whether you’re a retailer or a developer, a corporation, an entrepreneur, or even a student, your .tech extension immediately includes you as part of the global tech cohort. It even offers you improved branding opportunities in the search engine rankings.
So far, over 315,000 entities are currently enjoying the .tech name, including major brands like Viacom (viacom.tech) as well as the mecha of tech itself, the annual world-famous Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas (CES.tech).
Right now, you can join the ranks of the futuristic vanguard with your own .tech domain name at a big savings off the regular price. Just head to the .tech domain website and enter the code TECHNOW to get 80 percent off the cost of your one-year or five-year domain name.
Prices subject to change.
VentureBeat Deals is a partnership between VentureBeat and StackCommerce. This post does not constitute editorial endorsement. If you have any questions about the products you see here or previous purchases, please contact StackCommerce support here.
 Prices subject to change.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
