Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Spider-Man’s PS5 remaster gives Peter Parker a new face Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The new Peter Parker.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Fans of Insomniac’s Spider-Man for PlayStation 4 are going to find a big surprise when they play the remastered version of the open world web-slinging game on PlayStation 5.
 Peter Parker has a new face, which you can see above.
This isn’t part of some kind of simple optimization. Insomniac has recast the character, basing the model on a new actor.
“We loved working with John Bubniak on the original game; however, to get a better match to Peter Parker/Spider-Man actor Yuri Lowenthal’s facial capture, we have cast Ben Jordan to be the face model for Peter Parker on the PS5 console,” Insomniac Games community manager James Stevenson notes in a new PlayStation Blog post.
 “He looks incredible in-game, and Yuri’s moving performances take on a new life.” Yuri Lowenthal is the voice actor for Peter Parker/Spider-Man in the game, while John Bubniak served as the original face model for the character. Now Peter gets his face from Ben Jordan.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! What the hell happened to Peter Parker's face lol Before vs After pic.twitter.com/5uGn6nzdng — Vishhal Bhattman (@vbhatt08) September 30, 2020 It’s a bizarre change to see in a game that millions of people have already played. It’s not every day that a game just recasts its lead’s face. The explanation is also strange. Is Ben Jordan really such a better match for Lowenthal’s facial capture work that it was worth all this work? You have to wonder if the fact that Jordan looks more like the current movie actor for Spider-Man, Tom Holland, influenced this decision.
It also brings into question just how much games should change after release. Patches gives developers an opportunity to tweak their titles long after launch. A big remaster like this one for Spider-Man gives a studio a chance to make even more changes. But is replacing the hero’s face going too far? I know that if I saw a Spider-Man movie two years after it first came out and Peter Parker had a new face, I’d be beyond distracted.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
