Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google says Pixel’s Hold for Me feature records and stores audio on-device Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
One of the just-announced Pixels’ most intriguing features is Hold for Me, a Google Assistant-powered service that waits on hold when you call a retailer, utility, or other business’ toll-free support number. When a human comes on the line, Hold for Me — which will launch in preview in English in the U.S. before expanding to other regions and devices — notifies you with sound, vibration, and a prompt on your screen.
Hold for Me was announced today at Google’s annual hardware event, and the company responded to a list of VentureBeat’s questions afterward. According to a spokesperson, Hold for Me is powered by Google’s Duplex technology, which not only recognizes hold music but also understands the difference between a recorded message — for example, “Hello, thank you for waiting” — and a representative on the line. (That said, a support page admits Hold for Me’s detection accuracy might not be high “in every situation.”) To design the feature, Google says it gathered feedback from a number of companies, including Dell and United, as well as from studies with customer support representatives.
“Every business’ hold loop is different, and simple algorithms can’t accurately detect when a customer support representative comes onto the call,” Google told VentureBeat. “Consistent with our policies to be transparent, we let the customer support representative know that they are talking to an automated service that is recording the call and waiting on hold on a user’s behalf.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Hold for Me is an optional feature that must be enabled in a supported device’s settings menu and activated manually during each call. In the interests of privacy, Google says any audio processing Google Assistant uses to determine when a representative is on the line is done entirely on-device and doesn’t require a Wi-Fi or data connection. Effectively, audio from the call is not shared with Google or saved to a Google account unless a user explicitly shares it to help improve the feature. (Call data like recordings, transcripts, phone numbers, greetings, and disclosures are stored on Google servers for 90 days before deletion.) If the user doesn’t opt to share audio, interactions between Hold for Me and support representatives are wiped after 48 hours. Returning to a call when a customer support person becomes available stops audio processing.
Google claims its embrace of techniques like on-device processing and federated learning minimize the exchange of data between its servers. For instance, its Now Playing feature on Pixel phones , which identifies songs playing nearby, leverages federated analytics to analyze data in a decentralized way. Under the hood, Now Playing taps an on-device database of song fingerprints to identify music near a phone without the need for an active network connection.
Google’s Call Screen feature, which screens and transcribes incoming calls, also happens on-device, as do Live Caption , Smart Reply , and Face Match.
 That’s thanks in part to offline language and computer vision models that power, among other things, the Google Assistant experience on smartphones like the Pixel 4 , Pixel 4a and 4a (5G), and Pixel 5.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
