Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Fall Guys Season 2 gets new medieval games and cosmetics Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Fall Guys is getting all-new content as part of its upcoming Season 2.
Developer Mediatonic revealed the medieval-themed update as part of Gamescom’s Opening Night Live event today.
 The studio didn’t reveal a release date, but it said it’s putting the “finishing touches” on the cosmetics and all-new minigames. So it should launch relatively soon.
In the trailer for Fall Guys Season 2, Mediatonic showed off some of the new stuff players can look forward to. This includes medieval-themed games featuring draw bridges and castles. In one of the games, players must work together to move wooden platforms into position to climb up to the top of a massive structure. In another, players move ramps around to jump through hoops to score points. As for the cosmetics, players can expect to unlock more themed costumes. Mediatonic showed off knights, vikings, dragons, and wizards in its trailer.
Mediatonic didn’t explain how it will release this content. The new stages are likely free updates, but the costumes could come as part of a battle pass or some other form of microtransaction. But it’s clear that the studio knows it needs to keep things feeling fresh for Fall Guys to maintain its huge momentum. It’s still one of the most popular games in the world right now, and new levels and cosmetics to unlock could ensure that players keep coming back for weeks and then months.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
