Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Twitter labels video shared by Trump aide as ‘manipulated media’ Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A screen displays the stock price of Twitter above the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) shortly after the opening bell in New York, U.S., January 31, 2017.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Twitter labeled a tweet by White House director of social media Dan Scavino as “manipulated media” today. The original, unaltered video shows Harry Belafonte asleep in an interview with a local TV station. The video shared by Scavino replaces Belafonte’s face with Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden. The Scavino video has been seen more than 1 million times since being shared roughly one day ago on Twitter. CBS Sacramento anchor John Dabkovich tweeted that he knew the video was a fake six hours ago.
At the time this story was published at 1 pm PT Monday, Twitter hadn’t removed the video, and Scavino had not deleted the post sharing the doctored video. Ultimately, the video was removed in response to a report by the copyright owner.
Twitter introduced its synthetic and manipulated media policy in February, and it considers whether shared content is manipulated with editing to be deceptive or capable of causing serious harm. Whether a video is labeled or removed entirely is decided on a case-by-case basis. Accounts associated with repeat offenses of the synthetic and manipulated media policy can be permanently suspended, according to the policy.
This is fake. You know how I know? I was the coanchor in studio.
We were interviewing Harry Belafonte.
https://t.co/gPRU9JGyI7 — John Dabkovich (@JohnDabkovich) August 31, 2020 VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Scavino was the first known Twitter user to have a tweet labeled as manipulated media for sharing an altered video in March, which Trump retweeted, that falsely depicts Biden endorsing Trump. A former Trump golf caddie and longtime aide to President Trump, Scavino was appointed to the position of White House social media director earlier this year and last week spoke at the Republican National Convention.
Earlier today, Twitter also labeled a video shared by House Minority Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA) as manipulated media for sharing a video interview related to police funding, which Scalise eventually deleted, according to CNN.
 Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden has not said he’s in favor of defunding the police.
Concern over manipulated media and disinformation is high as U.S. citizens prepare to vote to elect the next president of the United States on November 3.
VentureBeat pinged the White House for comment on whether the White House uses any tools to detect deepfake videos and whether Scavino will take down the video.
Updated 12:10 pm PT Sept. 1 to state that the doctored video was taken down due to a report by the copyright owner.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
