Vox homepage Give Give Newsletters Newsletters Site search Search Vox main menu Explainers Crossword Video Podcasts Politics Policy Culture Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters More Explainers Israel-Hamas war 2024 election Supreme Court Buy less stuff Open enrollment What to watch All explainers Crossword Video Podcasts Politics Policy Culture Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters We have a request Vox's journalism is free, because we believe that everyone deserves to understand the world they live in. Reader support helps us do that. Can you chip in to help keep Vox free for all? × Filed under: Future Perfect Technology Science AI has cracked a problem that stumped biologists for 50 years. It’s a huge deal.
A breakthrough on the “protein folding problem” can help us understand disease and discover new drugs.
By Sigal Samuel Dec 3, 2020, 2:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: AI has cracked a problem that stumped biologists for 50 years. It’s a huge deal.
Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Ann Johansson/Corbis via Getty Images This story is part of a group of stories called Finding the best ways to do good.
DeepMind, an AI research lab that was bought by Google and is now an independent part of Google’s parent company Alphabet, announced a major breakthrough this week that one evolutionary biologist called “a game changer.” “This will change medicine,” the biologist, Andrei Lupas, told Nature.
 “It will change research. It will change bioengineering. It will change everything.” The breakthrough: DeepMind says its AI system, AlphaFold, has solved the “protein folding problem” — a grand challenge of biology that has vexed scientists for 50 years.
Proteins are the basic machines that get work done in your cells. They start out as strings of amino acids (imagine the beads on a necklace) but they soon fold up into a unique three-dimensional shape (imagine scrunching up the beaded necklace in your hand).
That 3D shape is crucial because it determines how the protein works. If you’re a scientist developing a new drug, you want to know the protein’s shape because that will help you come up with a molecule that can bind to it, fitting into it to alter its behavior. The trouble is, predicting which shape a protein will take is incredibly hard.
Every two years, researchers who work on this problem try to prove how good their predictive powers are by submitting a prediction about the shapes that certain proteins will take. Their entries are judged at the Critical Assessment of Structure Prediction (CASP) conference, which is basically a fancy science contest for grown-ups.
By 2018, DeepMind’s AI was already outperforming everyone at CASP, provoking some melancholic feelings among the human researchers.
 DeepMind took home the win that year, but it still hadn’t solved the protein folding problem. Not even close.
This year, though, its AlphaFold system was able to predict — with impressive speed and accuracy — what shapes given strings of amino acids would fold up into. The AI is not perfect, but it’s pretty great: When it makes mistakes, it’s generally only off by the width of an atom. That’s comparable to the mistakes you get when you do physical experiments in a lab, except that those experiments are much slower and much more expensive.
“This is a big deal,” John Moult, who co-founded and oversees CASP, told Nature.
 “In some sense the problem is solved.” Why this is a big deal for biology The AlphaFold technology still needs to be refined, but assuming the researchers can pull that off, this breakthrough will likely speed up and improve our ability to develop new drugs.
Let’s start with the speed. To get a sense of how much AlphaFold can accelerate scientists’ work, consider the experience of Andrei Lupas , an evolutionary biologist at the Max Planck Institute in Germany. He spent a decade — a decade! — trying to figure out the shape of one protein. But no matter what he tried in the lab, the answer eluded him. Then he tried out AlphaFold and he had the answer in half an hour.
AlphaFold has implications for everything from Alzheimer’s disease to future pandemics. It can help us understand diseases, since many (like Alzheimer’s) are caused by misfolded proteins. It can help us find new treatments, and also help us quickly determine which existing drugs can be usefully applied to, for example, a new virus. When another pandemic comes along, it could be very helpful to have a system like AlphaFold in our back pocket.
“We could start screening every compound that is licensed for use in humans,” Lupas told the New York Times. “We could face the next pandemic with the drugs we already have.” But for this to be possible, DeepMind would have to share its technology with scientists. The lab says it’s exploring ways to do that.
Why this is a big deal for artificial intelligence Over the past few years, DeepMind has made a name for itself by playing games. It has built AI systems that crushed pro gamers at strategy games like StarCraft and Go.
 Much like the chess matches between IBM’s Deep Blue and Garry Kasparov, these matches mostly served to prove that DeepMind can make an AI that surpasses human abilities.
Now, DeepMind is proving that it has grown up. It has graduated from playing video games to addressing scientific problems with real-world significance — problems that can be life-or-death.
The protein folding problem was a perfect thing to tackle. DeepMind is a world leader in building neural networks, a type of artificial intelligence loosely inspired by the neurons in a human brain. The beauty of this type of AI is that it doesn’t require you to preprogram it with a lot of rules. Just feed a neural network enough examples of something, and it can learn to detect patterns in the data, then draw inferences based on that.
So, for example, you can present it with many thousands of strings of amino acids and show it what shape they folded into. Gradually, it detects patterns in the way given strings tend to shape up — patterns that human experts may not have detected. From there, it can make predictions about how other strings will fold.
This is exactly the sort of problem at which neural networks excel, and DeepMind recognized that, marrying the right type of AI to the right type of puzzle. (It also integrated some more complex knowledge — about physics and evolutionarily related amino acid sequences, for example — though the details remain scant as DeepMind is still preparing a peer-reviewed paper for publication.) Other labs have already harnessed the power of neural networks to make breakthroughs in biology. At the beginning of this year, AI researchers trained a neural network by feeding it data on 2,335 molecules known to have antibacterial properties. Then they used it to predict which other molecules — out of 107 million possibilities — would also have these properties. In this way, they managed to identify brand-new types of antibiotics.
DeepMind researchers are capping the year with another achievement that shows just how much AI has matured. It’s genuinely great news for a generally terrible 2020.
Sign up for the Future Perfect newsletter and we’ll send you a roundup of ideas and solutions for tackling the world’s biggest challenges — and how to get better at doing good.
Will you support Vox’s explanatory journalism? Most news outlets make their money through advertising or subscriptions. But when it comes to what we’re trying to do at Vox, there are a couple reasons that we can't rely only on ads and subscriptions to keep the lights on.
First, advertising dollars go up and down with the economy. We often only know a few months out what our advertising revenue will be, which makes it hard to plan ahead.
Second, we’re not in the subscriptions business. Vox is here to help everyone understand the complex issues shaping the world — not just the people who can afford to pay for a subscription. We believe that’s an important part of building a more equal society. We can’t do that if we have a paywall.
That’s why we also turn to you, our readers, to help us keep Vox free.
If you also believe that everyone deserves access to trusted high-quality information, will you make a gift to Vox today? One-Time Monthly Annual $5 /month $10 /month $25 /month $50 /month Other $ /month /month We accept credit card, Apple Pay, and Google Pay. You can also contribute via In This Stream The rapid development of AI has benefits — and poses serious risks Elon Musk wants to merge humans with AI. How many brains will be damaged along the way? AI has cracked a problem that stumped biologists for 50 years. It’s a huge deal.
The case for taking AI seriously as a threat to humanity 55 Next Up In Future Perfect Most Read The controversy over TikTok and Osama bin Laden’s “Letter to America,” explained Formula 1 grew too fast. Now its new fans are tuning out.
The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes might be the best Hunger Games movie yet Why are so few people getting the latest Covid-19 vaccine? What are Israel and Palestine? Why are they fighting? vox-mark Sign up for the newsletter Sentences The day's most important news stories, explained in your inbox.
Thanks for signing up! Check your inbox for a welcome email.
Email (required) Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again.
The Latest Most of Israel’s weapons imports come from the US. Now Biden is rushing even more arms.
By Jonathan Guyer Formula 1 grew too fast. Now its new fans are tuning out.
By Izzie Ramirez The controversy over TikTok and Osama bin Laden’s “Letter to America,” explained By A.W. Ohlheiser and Li Zhou Your phone is the key to your digital life. Make sure you know what to do if you lose it.
By Sara Morrison Alex Murdaugh stands guilty of killing his wife and son. That’s just scratching the surface.
By Aja Romano Is the green texting bubble about to burst? By Sara Morrison Chorus Facebook Twitter YouTube About us Our staff Privacy policy Ethics & Guidelines How we make money Contact us How to pitch Vox Contact Send Us a Tip Vox Media Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media
