Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Deals These thinking skills courses can give your mind a major boost Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn With so much time being spent at home in isolation, it can be easy to fall out of touch with the critical thinking skills that make you most effective in your work and personal life. If you feel that your mind could use a jump start in order to boost you closer to success, VB Deals has the perfect bundle for you.
The Mastering Thinking Skills Bundle Ft. Timothy Kenny is designed to help you enhance your creativity, metacognition, and more. The bundle features 14 hours of content spread across 4 courses that cover complex concepts including visual thinking, recognition of “mini languages”, and how to develop the interstate system within your brain.
All courses in this bundle are taught by Timothy Kenny, author of Accelerated Learning for Entrepreneurs.
 He has taught classes and spoken to groups at the Harvard Innovation Lab, the Tufts University Entrepreneurs Society, and the General Assembly in Boston, among others. Kenny has been a featured educator on numerous online education platforms and has consulted with startup teams on how to accelerate and transform their learning, growth, and creativity.
The best part is that the Mastering Thinking Skills Bundle Ft. Timothy Kenny is available right now for the low price of just $21.99, hundreds of dollars off of list price. Get it now, and see the impact Kenny’s instruction can have in your life.
Prices subject to change.
Do you have your stay-at-home essentials? Here are some you may have missed.
VentureBeat Deals is a partnership between VentureBeat and StackCommerce. This post does not constitute editorial endorsement. If you have any questions about the products you see here or previous purchases, please contact StackCommerce support here.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
