Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Call of Duty: Warzone’s expansion to 200 players means insta-death for me Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Call of Duty: Warzone will have an update that delivers 200-player battle royale.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Activision and Infinity Ward announced today that Call of Duty: Warzone will have a new mode where 200 players can fight in a battle royale match.
The mode will team people up in quads, or groups of four, and throw them into the same-size match where previously only 150 players could battle each other. For me, this raises the prospect of insta-death. As you may recall, as I have broadcast it over and over again, I have won one match in Warzone since its March 11 launch date, despite having played more than 255 matches.
In its first two months, the free-to-play Warzone mode was downloaded more than 60 million times.
This 200-player take is a new limited-time mode, and you should be able to play traditional 150-player matches as well. But for those who dive into it starting at 11 p.m. Pacific time tonight (June 29), you’ll likely find that there are a lot more people landing where you typically might parachute. This is a challenge because you parachute into a part of the map with only a pistol. You then hunt around to find more weapon loot as fast as possible and fight off anyone else from other teams trying to do the same.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! I always try to avoid the obvious places where everyone will land, even if that means coasting for a longer time while parachuting. But it looks like that will become a lot harder, and I’ll just have to try to survive dropping into a highly populated zone.
The update for Season Four also includes a sniper rifle, the Rytec AMR; a Spotter Scope, which marks enemies without counter-detection; a Juggernaut Royale mode; a Gulag weapons update (the Gulag is where you go for one last chance for revival after you’ve been killed on the map); and a new Contract called Supply Run. The game also has a new operator, Roze, a new multiplayer map and mode (Cheshire Park and Team Defender).
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
