Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Deals This Microsoft Excel training bundle is just $34 right now Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn If you haven’t used Microsoft Excel in a while, you might be surprised at just how different it is. For instance, did you know that the application has been supercharged with machine learning ? If that caught you by surprise, then it might be time for you to get familiar with everything this powerful app has to offer these days. This is where the Ultimate Microsoft Excel Training Bundle comes in.
If you’ve used Excel before, you might be familiar with some of its basic capabilities. Things like formulas and functions, or the ability to make quick and dirty graphs and charts based on the data entered. Well, this app is far more powerful than you might imagine, and the Ultimate Microsoft Excel Training Bundle as the courses that can prove it.
Dive in to courses like the Microsoft Excel: Advanced Excel Formulas and Functions course to go hands-on with more than 75 unique functions that Excel can pull off. Then try out Microsoft Excel: Data Visualization, Excel Charts and Graphs and work through demos that will teach you how to make more than 20 different kinds of eye-popping visuals.
Once you’ve mastered these tools, you can learn how to put Excel to work for any number of more advanced purposes. Try courses like Microsoft Excel: Intro to Power Query, Power Pivot and DAX or Microsoft Excel: Data Analysis with Excel Pivot Tables to see how this app can fit into your workflow in ways that you might have never imagined.
The Ultimate Microsoft Excel Training Bundle contains more than 33 hours of exclusive Excel knowledge laid out across six unique courses. This collection is valued at $945, but you can get it for just $33.99.
 That’s 97 percent off the retail price — and you don’t need to perform an Excel formula to know that is a deal that you can’t pass up. People are raving about the bundle, giving it a 4.5 star rating on over 177 reviews. Listen to the people and snag this course bundle while you can ! Do you have your stay-at-home essentials? Here are some you may have missed.
VentureBeat Deals is a partnership between VentureBeat and StackCommerce. This post does not constitute editorial endorsement. If you have any questions about the products you see here or previous purchases, please contact StackCommerce support here.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
