Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Premium Bowling will soon strike Oculus Quest Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn We’ve got table tennis , we just got golf , and now Oculus Quest is getting another sport that makes perfect sense for the platform – bowling.
Premium Bowling has appeared in the Coming Soon section of the Oculus Store.
 Developed by Sadetta, the game lets you hit the lanes in VR. There’s no date for the Quest release just yet, but you can check the game out in the trailer below.
It looks like it comes with the expected bells and whistles; alongside solo-play, there are multiplayer modes including both local and online options. Given how we’re all staying home during the pandemic, I’m sure some will relish the chance to spend a Saturday night passing a headset round in a bowling match. Leaderboards and ball customization options also feature.
The game’s been in full release on Steam for PC VR headsets since October 2019, where it’s racked up a “Very Positive” rating based on 120 user reviews. Better yet, Sadetta, has been pretty consistent with updates since launch, so it looks like this one will be well-supported.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! All that said we haven’t yet given the game a go for ourselves yet so we can’t speak to its quality. Like we said, bowling makes great sense in VR as opposed to more mobile sports like football, though without replicating the weight of a ball it’s tough to know how throwing it down the lane will really feel. We’ll look to bring you more impressions as we get closer to the launch of Premium Bowling on Oculus Quest.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
