Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Deals Charge and disinfect your smartphone with this Qi charger for just $50 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn As reopening measures are enacted around the world, it may still be some time before we all start feeling safe from germs and viruses in the environment around us. From grocery store carts to gas pumps, we are constantly in contact with pathogens that could make us sick and harm us. These pathogens are then transferred to your phone, the object you likely touch the most in a given day. Now there is a convenient way to rid your devices of nasty germs in just minutes.
The 3-in-1 UV Sterilizer removes the need for any and all traditional cleaning methods when it comes to your mobile phone. Even better, this UV sanitizer also functions as a wireless charger! Simply drop in a capable Qi-standard device and watch it gain power as it is blasted with UV-C light. In 15 minutes or less you can eliminate 99.99 percent of germs without any heat, liquid, or chemicals that will harm your device.
The large basin is designed for any smartphone up to 6.2” (which includes all current gen iPhone, Pixel, and Galaxy series devices), but will also sanitize keys, headphones, jewelry, or anything else that will fit into the unit itself. While your phone is being disinfected, you can also take advantage of the UV Sterilizer ’s aromatherapy function. Add in your favorite aromatherapy liquid to the dedicated port and leave your device smelling as fresh as it is clean.
Now is not the time to risk getting sick. Kill germs efficiently and preemptively with the 3-in-1 UV Sterilizer.
 You can pick yours up right now for just $49.99, a 66 percent discount.
VentureBeat Deals is a partnership between VentureBeat and StackCommerce. This post does not constitute editorial endorsement. If you have any questions about the products you see here or previous purchases, please contact StackCommerce support here.
Do you have your stay-at-home essentials? Here are some you may have missed.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
