Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft will show Xbox Series X games on May 7 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Xbox Series X reveal.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Microsoft announced today that it’s holding an event at 8 a.m. Pacific on May 7, showing games running on the Xbox Series X next-generation console for the first time.
At this point, we’ve seen a decent amount about the system. We know what the console and controller look like, and we’ve gotten a glimpse at the specs. But we still haven’t seen any games running on the machine, although we know that titles like Halo: Infinite and Assassin’s Creed: Valhalla are coming to the system.
This will put the Xbox Series X even further ahead of the PlayStation 5.
 For that system, we’ve seen the controller and know the specs, but we haven’t gotten a glimpse of the actual console yet, let alone gameplay footage.
Microsoft is promising to show multiple games during this showcase, so we should see some new announcements. Normally, Microsoft would have a bunch of reveals and trailers to debut at E3, which happens every year in Los Angeles in June.
This year’s show, however, is cancelled , so this digital event could be a substitute for Microsoft.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
