Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Newzoo will extract analytics insights from Reddit’s gamers Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Reddit and Newzoo have teamed up to analyze gamers.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Game and esports market researcher Newzoo has teamed up with social network Reddit to extract details on consumer engagement with video games.
It’s an interesting partnership, because many of Reddit’s 430 million monthly active users are deeply engaged with games, and Newzoo will be able to mine the audience for data that is relevant to its analysis of the game market, the companies said. The firm will combine its existing data on games with community insights from gaming’s biggest social platform.
As part of the collaboration, Newzoo now has access to Reddit’s aggregated data on games engagement, fueled by the social community platform’s users.
The first phase of its implementation enables users to browse the engagement from Reddit’s main gaming-related subreddits and benchmark the level of community activity around any game IP, using a variety of metrics such as total subscribers, posts per day, and comments per day.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! In addition to using feedback from its clients, Newzoo will expand these insights over time. Both companies also envision creating unique insights and metrics by combining social, viewing and gaming engagement data, valuable to game developers, publishers, and any other market with an interest in games.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
