Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages CNCF graduates package manager Helm to bring more stability to Kubernetes development Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Helm core maintainers Martin Hickey from IBM (left) and Taylor Thomas from Microsoft (right, in the hat).
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
The Cloud Native Computing Foundation announced today that the open source package manager Helm has become the 10th project to graduate, providing another boost to a movement that wants companies to rethink how they build online applications.
Helm has already been widely adopted by the rapidly growing microservices community.
 But the latest milestone should raise Helm’s profile among Kubernetes newcomers while also boosting overall efforts to ensure that stability is a priority for cloud native computing.
“Helm has had stability in mind from the start,” said Matt Farina, a Samsung engineer and Helm maintainer. “So many things change so often around Kubernetes as new features are coming out. We know people value that stability.” Fundamentally, Helm is designed to make it easier for developers to find and share software created for Kubernetes. It uses a packaging format dubbed “charts” that collects files describing Kubernetes resources.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Helm is actually one of the older Kubernetes-related projects and has been part of the CNCF since the Linux Foundation founded CNCF in 2015. It was developed originally at Deis, a company eventually acquired by Microsoft.
By the time version 3 was released last fall, Helm was seeing 2 million monthly downloads. Following a rigorous set of testing to validate its security and robustness, the CNCF officially voted today to move it to “graduated” status.
Helm has already become a critical tool at companies like AT&T, Microsoft, and VMWare. But the new status should create new awareness and confidence around Helm for developers and companies just starting to embrace Kubernetes.
“Many of the people who use it know that it’s mature,” Farina said. “It’s going to change the perception for people who are just coming to Kubernetes and just coming to the cloud native tools.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
