Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Facebook’s role-playing game teaches AI to complete tasks by reading descriptions Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Demonstrating once again the potential of video games to advance AI and machine learning research, Facebook researchers propose a game-like language challenge — Read to Fight Monsters (RTFM) — in a paper accepted by the International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) 2020.
 RTFM tasks an AI agent plopped into a procedurally generated environment with learning its dynamics by reading a description of them so it can generalize to new worlds with dynamics it isn’t familiar with.
Facebook’s work could form the cornerstone of AI models capable of capturing the interplay between goals, documents, and observations in complex tasks. If the RTFM agents perform well on objectives requiring reasoning, it could suggest language understanding is a promising way to learn policies — i.e., heuristics that suggest a set of actions in response to a state.
In RTFM, which takes inspiration from roguelikes (a subgenre of role-playing games that use a lot of procedurally generated elements) such as NetHack, Diablo , and Darkest Dungeon , the dynamics consist of: Monsters like wolfs, bats, jaguars, ghosts, and goblins Teams like “Order of the Forest” and “fire goblin” Element types like fire and poison Item modifiers like “fanatical” and “arcane” Items like swords and hammers At the beginning of a run, RTFM generates a large number of dynamics, along with descriptions of those dynamics (for example, “Blessed items are effective against poison monsters”) and goals (“Defeat the Order of the Forest”). Groups, monsters, modifiers, and elements are randomized, as are monsters’ team assignments and the effectiveness of modifiers against various elements. One element, team, and a monster from that team are designated to be the “target” monster, while an element, team, and monster from a different team are designated a “distractor” monster, along with an element that defeats the distractor monster. The position of the target and distractor monsters — both of which move to attack the agent at a fixed speed — are also randomized so the agent can’t memorize their patterns.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Human-written templates indicate which monster belongs to which team, which modifiers are effective against which element, and which team the agent should defeat. The researchers note that there are 2 million possible games within RTFM — without considering the natural language templates (200 million otherwise) — and that with the random ordering of the templates, the number of unique documents exceeded 15 billion.
Agents are given a text document describing the dynamics and observations of the environment, in addition to a partial goal instruction. In order to achieve the goal, they must cross-reference relevant information in the document (which also lists their inventory), as well as in the observations.
Specifically, RTFM agents must: Identify the target team from the goal Identify the monster belonging to that team Identify the modifiers that are effective against this element Find which modifier is present and the item with the modifier Pick up the correct item Engage the correct monster in combat The researchers leveraged reinforcement learning, a technique that spurs agents toward goals via rewards, to train an RTFM model they refer to as txt2π. By receiving a reward of “1” for wins and “-1” for losses, txt2π learned to build representations that capture interactions with the goal, documents describing dynamics, and observations.
The team ran experiments in which they trained txt2π for a minimum of 50 million frames. While the performance of the final model trailed that of human players, who consistently solved RTFM, txt2π beat two baselines and achieved good performance by learning a curriculum. In the training phase on large environments (10 by 10 blocks) with new dynamics and world configurations, the model had a 61% win rate (plus or minus 18%), and it had a 43% win rate during evaluation (plus or minus 13%).
“[The results suggest] that there is ample room for improvement in grounded policy learning on complex RTFM problems,” conceded the coauthors, who hope to explore in future work how supporting evidence in external documents might be used to train an agent to reason about plans.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
