Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Twitch launches Mod View to make community moderating easier Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Twitch launches moderator views for easier monitoring of livestreams.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Twitch has launched a new channel mode, dubbed Mod View, for moderators of livestream sessions.
Mod View is for the community moderators who wear a lot of different hats, whether they’re welcoming new community members, hyping up the chat, or swinging the ban hammer on toxic fans.
Amazon’s Twitch division launched the new Mod View as part of its Mod Day celebrations. It is a highly customizable home for all of the tools moderators need to take action on their channels. Previously, mods completed tasks (keeping chat safe, timing out users, etc.) by typing commands in chat. Now, each task has a standalone widget that lets mods take action without distracting from chat or the video. Widgets can be moved and resized to suit the moderator’s most urgent needs.
There’s also a dock for other, less-pressing mod actions. Each docked widget shows quick preview stats like the number of active mods or the stream uptime. Click an icon for a preview, or click-and-drag to pull a widget out of the dock and onto the main grid.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Mod View has dedicated space for moderators to search for users in chat and to see certain pertinent details about them and their history on the channel.
Mod View’s new AutoMod Queue allows mods to easily approve or deny messages caught by AutoMod. An Active Mods view shows which mods are present and active, and Mod Actions show all actions taken by all mods on a channel to help them collaborate.
Mod View is a step in Twitch’s efforts to make moderating easier. Twitch said it will have future updates including new widgets and improvements to AutoMod.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
