Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Exclusive Trivia Crack maker Etermax launches Words & Ladders mobile game Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn From the makers of Trivia Crack comes Words & Ladders.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Etermax , the Argentine studio that made Trivia Crack and Word Crack, has launched Words & Ladders, a new mobile game where players solve riddles.
Words & Ladders is now available worldwide for free on Android and iOS in English, Spanish, Portuguese, French, Italian, and German. Inspired by the ancient Indian board game Moksha Patam, Words & Ladders brings to mobile devices a lively and colorful version that, in addition to entertaining, stimulates lateral thinking with riddles in order to advance in the game, the company said.
Etermax product owner Federico Segovia said in a statement that the game is aimed at curious minds. It emphasizes the value of words as a tool to streamline thinking and share knowledge with friends, family, and other users. He said you can play Words & Ladders at any time and in any place, fine-tuning your memory, improving your vocabulary, and testing your popular culture knowledge, with thousands of puzzles.
Above: Words & Ladders is reminiscent of Chutes & Ladders.
The game highlights the funny Gallerino, who needs the help of the wisest players to discover the hidden words on the steps towards the goal. The challenger must reach the top of an ascending board of 100 squares (kind of like Chutes & Ladders), while facing the skills of friends, family or random opponents by correctly answering the puzzles that are presented on the climb. Whoever proves to be the fastest will win the game.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! You earn coins, or buy them at store, and they provide benefits in the game. The winner of a game receives a medal, which gives you rewards by completing and unlocking park attractions in the section with floating islands.
To start the game, the player spins the wheel, which will indicate the number of squares a player will advance. After landing on a square, players must answer a riddle by filling in the correct word in less than 30 seconds.
Above: Players test their trivia knowledge in Words & Ladders.
Landing on a ladder serves as a shortcut to move faster in the board. But landing on a slide will make you move back. Also, players can collect coins distributed in the squares automatically while moving up; however, if they fall on the opponent’s square, they have to answer two consecutive riddles to move forward.
Whoever manages to reach the finish line first becomes the winner of the game and receives medals. The medals allows users to complete the park attractions in the section with floating islands and win rewards. Once an island is complete, a new one is unlocked.
Etermax, founded in 2009 as an international tech company, has had 700 million downloads for titles such as Trivia Crack, Trivia Crack 2, and Word Crack. The company is also offering in-game advertising services in Latin America through an extensive network of more than 1,800 titles. Etermax was founded in Argentina and it has offices in Uruguay and Germany as well as commercial support in Brazil and Mexico.
Although the game is available for free on Android and iOS, it has in-game advertising an in-game shopping system in the Words & Ladders store, where you can purchase coins to give you greater opportunities in the game.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
