Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Rockstar Games will donate 5% of GTA Online and Red Dead Online revenue to fight coronavirus Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn GTA Online is a social casino now.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The next time you spend money in GTA Online’s Diamond casino, you can feel good about it.
Rockstar Games said it will donate 5% of revenue for GTA Online and Red Dead Online for the next month to fight the coronavirus.
Rockstar said that “community is at the center of everything we do.” It added, “As our teams navigate these difficult times, we see our local communities across North America, the United Kingdom, India, and beyond being deeply affected.” So starting April 1, and through the end of May, Rockstar said 5% of revenue from purchases inside the online games will be donated to COVID-19 relief efforts. The New York-based company said it would share more info about those donations over time.
Michael Pachter, analyst at Wedbush Securities, estimated that the donations could amount to $2 million a month. But since Rockstar doesn’t disclose its exact revenues by month or even by quarter, from individual games, it’s hard to calculate.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Here’s the full statement in a tweet: Rockstar Games and COVID-19 Relief pic.twitter.com/9j6NrtcrFN — Rockstar Games (@RockstarGames) April 1, 2020 Parent company Take-Two Interactive has said that Rockstar’s 2018 hit Red Dead Redemption 2 has sold more than 35 million copies, while Grand Theft Auto V has shipped more than 115 million copies.
Many of those players have also played the online versions of the games, GTA Online and Red Dead Online, where players can pay real money for virtual goods, such as money spent inside the Diamond Casino & Resort in GTA Online.
That means the potential donation from the purchases could amount to a lot of money.
Take-Two also announced that 2K, Private Division, and Social Point team are also donating 5% of proceeds in April.
[Updated at 9:58 a.m. on 4/1 with Take-Two information] GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
