Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Uber launches in-app message translations in over 100 languages Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Uber in-app translations Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Uber is rolling out new features today to ease friction during the rider pickup process. As a global app available in more than 700 cities, Uber is frequently used by international travelers for the convenience and familiarity it offers. But language barriers can still cause problems, which is why Uber is now launching an in-app translation tool to ensure drivers and riders can communicate effectively.
While drivers and riders are already able to set their preferred languages in the app, and drivers are required to include the languages that they speak in their profile, this new feature is designed to bypass the language barrier altogether. Whatever language the driver uses to send a message can be translated by the rider with the tap of a button, thanks to a Google Translate integration. This works across more than 100 languages and is also available in the driver’s app for two-way conversation.
“We anticipate this being most helpful for drivers whose primary language isn’t English, and for riders [who] are traveling abroad outside the U.S,” Uber wrote in a blog post.
Above: Uber’s in-app translations While the Uber app is broadly set up to facilitate pickups without the need for text-based communications, there are many scenarios in which it may be necessary to chat with a driver in real time — whether to communicate a delay or a slight change in pickup location. That’s why Uber launched in-app messaging a few years ago to replace the older text messaging option.
Uber is also launching an app redesign that further clarifies a ride’s arrival status, including rotating “actionable” notifications that show the minutes remaining until arrival, pickup location, directions for where to walk, and details about anyone else being picked up en route.
“We built this so riders can feel even more confident tracking the status of their trip, in addition to monitoring a driver’s progress within the Uber app map screen,” the company wrote.
Above: Uber’s new pickup status notifications Uber has recently introduced a number of new tools to improve its rider app. The San Francisco-based company recently revealed that it would start using hyper-local weather data from ClimaCell to improve ETA estimates, and it’s piloting a new feature that allows customers to request pet-friendly cars.
 Uber also announced this month that it was opening to telephone bookings in the U.S.
As Uber battles widening losses in the push for profitability, it needs to make its service accessible to as many people as possible, and translations and clearer notifications should go some way toward achieving that goal.
Translations and the new redesign will be rolling out to Uber users globally “in the coming days,” according to a company statement.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
