Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Steam is down, so you’ll need to work through your backlog another time Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Steam.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Dang. The PC gaming software portal Steam is down. And that’s a bummer because today was the day I was going to start playing all those games I bought but never opened. Darn it! Guess I’ll have to start on that some other time.
This outage is affecting most of Steam’s services, and PC players are complaining about the connection errors on social media.
 This disruption is preventing players from logging in, buying games from the store, and more. And if you can log into Steam, you may have issues launching games.
The unofficial Steam status page is currently returning an “unknown” state for Steam and many of its functionalities. The Steam Community and Web API are also coming back with error 503 and error 403, respectively.
Valve has not made any statement about the outage.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! If these connection issues are affecting you, not all hope is lost. If you are trying to log into a single-player game that is primarily offline, you can try launching Steam in offline mode. This should enable you to at least get into some of your games. Otherwise, you’ll have to wait for the platform to come back online.
And I swear I was going to really put a dent in that pile of shame! Update, 2:37 p.m. Pacific: Steam appears to be working better for many users now.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
