Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages SAP files IPO for Qualtrics as demand for ‘experience management’ software rises 36% Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Ryan Smith, CEO of Qualtrics, on stage Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
SAP has filed the paperwork to take its Qualtrics subsidiary public less than two years after the German software giant acquired the company, which makes “experience management” software.
The IPO filing only contains a preliminary price range of $20 to $24 per share and does not place an overall valuation on the company.
Qualtrics was on the verge of going public in late 2018, when SAP announced it would acquire the company for $8 billion in cash. Qualtrics’ SaaS-based platform allows companies to survey users on topics like professional services for targeted marketing and brand development. It dubs this service “experience management” (XM).
The acquisition was part of SAP’s move to expand its cloud-based services as the company tried to diversify its legacy software business. Even after the IPO, SAP will remain the majority shareholder in Qualtrics.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The companies did not offer a clear explanation for why they had decided to move forward with an IPO that would make Qualtrics a semi-independent subsidiary.
Qualtrics’ first full year as part of SAP seemed a strong one. According to the filing, Qualtrics has more than 12,000 customers and 3,300 employees. The company reported revenue of $723 million in the fiscal year 2020 ending in September, up 36% compared to the same period for 2019.
In the first nine months of 2020, Qualtrics had $550 million in revenue but still lost $258 million.
“In partnership with SAP, over the past two years we have increased our deal sizes, broadened and deepened our geographic footprint, and continued to build an exceptional team,” Qualtrics says in its S-1. “Leveraging the success we have had with SAP, we intend to continue growing Qualtrics into one of the biggest and most valuable enterprise software companies in the world. Going public will give us the speed, agility, and autonomy necessary to continue accelerating our leadership of the XM category.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
