Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Jeff Grubb’s top 10 games of 2020 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Now that looks like a game of the year right there.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Unlike many of you, I didn’t suddenly have a lot more free time for games in 2020. I already worked from home, and my kids are still young and need a lot of my attention. So I maintained a rule I set up last year that I wouldn’t put much time into any game I cannot pause. In reality, that rule is more like I won’t have time for games I can’t play on Switch or using the Steam Link app on my phone.
Despite those restrictions, I still have plenty of games to put on my list. Here’s what I ended up with.
10. Streets of Rage 4 Above: Streets of Rage 4 with the classic character sprites.
I love going back to play Streets of Rage 2. My wife and I end up doing that about once a year. The nicest thing I can say about Streets of Rage 4, which I reviewed , is that I intend to go back and play it just as frequently in the future.
9. Microsoft Flight Simulator I knocked Animal Crossing: New Horizons off my top 10 for this, but that’s right. I love Animal Crossing, but it occupies a space alongside Fall Guys and other intrinsically social games that are more about my relationships with other people. And I don’t want to think about putting those games on a list — they’re not even competing in my brain.
Flight Simulator is a technical marvel that feels like it is opening up the genre to more people than ever with its great difficulty scaling. This is also one of the rare games that I turned into an event by getting out the flight stick.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! 8. Paper Mario: The Origami King Nintendo and Intelligent Systems nailed so many of the crucial aspects of Paper Mario: The Origami King.
 It’s funny, with tons of great characters, and it has variety in both its mechanics and environments. Its only shortcoming is its battle system, which is boring at best. Thankfully, you can avoid many battles, and that leaves you with just the good stuff.
7. Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater 1+2 As I wrote in my review , Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater 1+2 is gaming’s platonic ideal. Skateboarding and video games are soulmates. All these years later, games still don’t get much better than this.
6. Pikmin 3: Deluxe Pikmin 3: Deluxe is still mostly Pikmin 3 from 2013, but this is also the best Pikmin game so far.
 It edits the Wii U game into something that plays effortlessly on Switch. And that means you get to enjoy the satisfying loop of working with your little crewmates to round up fruit and expand your Pikmin army.
5. Astro’s Playroom Here’s all I have to say about Astro’s Playroom: Back on my bullshit pic.twitter.com/l80WuVHmcN — Jeff Grubb (@JeffGrubb) December 19, 2020 4. Ori and the Will of the Wisps Ori and the Will of the Wisps has some of the best locomotion in a 2D game ever. Combine that with fun exploration, thrilling boss fights, moving characters, and the best music, and it’s easy to see why it’s GamesBeat’s game of the year. It’s also one of my favorites and a game I’m already stirring to go back to.
3. Hades Sometimes a studio pulls it all together to create what feels like a miracle. That’s what happened with Supergiant Games and Hades. This masterpiece plays and looks better than almost any other game. It does Greek mythology better than any other game, and that’s saying something, considering how many games go to that source material. And if it only did those things, that would be enough. But then Supergiant went ahead and solved the roguelite barrier by building a linear narrative that progresses even when you have to start over.
In five years, prepare to play a lot of games from indies and big-budget studios that all cite Hades as a key influence.
2. Hardspace: Shipbreaker Games where you build things get a lot of attention and credit. Minecraft is endlessly popular, and Roblox is probably going to have one of the biggest IPOs of 2021. But we shouldn’t forget that games are really great at empowering us to tear things apart as well. And Hardspace: Shipbreaker does that better than almost anything else. It is so satisfying to use a laser gun to slowly peel apart junked space shuttles. But it’s also exciting when you forget to depressurize the cabin and end up blasted into space before the ship goes nuclear. That was one of my favorite moments of the year.
i said "whoops" pic.twitter.com/LRvEHXdjDW — Jeff Grubb (@JeffGrubb) June 20, 2020 1. SnowRunner I could spend dozens of hours in SnowRunner trying to move a truck 50 feet. That is what I consider a good time.
 And the game encourages my bizarre behavior. Fighting for every inch feels like real progress. I get that to many people, a game about getting stuck in mud or snow seems baffling or boring. But the reality is that it’s a game about taking ownership of your choices. If I get a truck stuck in the mud, SnowRunner makes me want to do everything it takes to get it moving again so I don’t lose the progress I already made.
Developer Saber Interactive also improved SnowRunner as a game relative to MudRunner. This comes in the form of building shortcuts and bridges that provide a tangible reward for completing missions.
There will be nothing more satisfying in a video game this year than pulling this truck out of the mud.
pic.twitter.com/p7yyP6cVdS — Jeff Grubb (@JeffGrubb) April 28, 2020 But really I’m here for the physics and the terrain deformation. The realistic behavior of the terrain makes every problem feel analog and tactile. You aren’t going to suddenly find your wheels on the good dirt — you really do have to pull your rigs through every inch of the muck. So when you finally do get to your destination, you earned that accomplishment by overcoming your own failures. What a hell of a game.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
