Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Exclusive Teatime Games’ One Word fights loneliness through social gaming Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Teatime Games has launched One Word, a word puzzle game aimed at elevating social interaction and combating loneliness.
The mobile game integrates face-to-face, two-way communication among opponents into gameplay, allowing you to gloat, argue, and laugh in real-time as the action unfolds. Designed with the mission to “make gaming social again,” the Teatime Games platform tries to go a step further than other so-called social games.
The game is available on iOS and Android.
Reykjavik, Iceland-based Teatime raised $9 million last year in a round led by Index Ventures and Atomico. The game is part of the company’s continued efforts to make mobile gameplay a shared, social experience. It plans to invite other games studios to build new games on the platform, with the goal of ushering in a new era of human interaction in mobile gaming. One Word allows users to challenge friends, family or even strangers across the globe head-on in real-time gameplay.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Above: One Word One Word implements word puzzles, live video chat, and augmented reality (AR) filters. You can link the letters on the board to spell out words, score points and outsmart your opponent through five lightning rounds. One Word has an infinite number of levels for users to master vocabulary skills, unlock bonus points and level up to discover a host of unique AR filters that shake up the user experience.
Offering a face-to-face connection with opponents, One Word begins by prompting new users to select a “Gameface”– an AR filter that is used during the two-way live video as the user plays. Reactions and leaderboard changes are all captured in real-time, giving players what other mobile games lack: the fun of communicating and seeing opponents’ facial expressions throughout the duration of the match. Users can also disable the microphone or turn off the camera in one swift tap, enabling an avatar to represent your reactions and allowing users to play anytime, anywhere, while still maintaining the social, personal gaming experience and a level of privacy.
Above: One Word “We’re extremely excited to launch a new addition to our platform that has changed the way society plays mobile games,” said Thor Fridriksson, CEO of Teatime Games, in a statement. “One Word was developed to allow the players to communicate through shared experience, the way we used to. Most of the fun of playing games with one another is trash-talking, seeing your opponents’ reactions when you’re ahead, and trying not to be a sore loser when the game gets down to its final moments. Technology has the capability to both entertain us and connect us, and we see no reason why it shouldn’t do both.” Teatime plans to launch several additional social mobile games on the platform in 2020. Teatime’s founders are Fridriksson, Gunnar Holmsteinn (chief operating officer), Johann Thorvaldur Bergthorsson (chief technology officer), and Ymir Finnbogason (chief financial officer).
Teatime’s experienced group of founders are all former executives of QuizUp, the fastest-growing mobile game in 2013 that turned into a worldwide phenomenon with over 100 million players. QuizUp revolutionized the world of mobile trivia games, and Teatime strives to do the same by making One Word competitive, fun and social.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
