Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Zynga teams up with Alec Baldwin for 10th anniversary of Words With Friends Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Zynga and Alec Baldwin have been a good match ever since the actor got kicked off a plane for playing Words With Friends as the jet was about to take off.
So the San Francisco social mobile game publisher and Baldwin have teamed up to celebrate the game for its 10th anniversary.
Zynga has started a “creative collaboration” the with Emmy Award-winning actor, producer, and director. He will lend his signature wit to humorous video vignettes that will be released over the next several months.
“It’s incredible to think back to my early days playing Words With Friends,” said Baldwin. “From playing on sets between takes, with colleagues, filmmakers and crew, to now, with my daily matches with my father-in-law in Italy, the game has been a constant in my life over the past decade.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! “Alec Baldwin not only partnered with us on this campaign, but was a true co-collaborator, from the early creative planning to the shoot,” said Bernard Kim, president of publishing at Zynga, in a statement. “He didn’t just bring his chops as an actor to set, he worked with our team to develop the concepts, hone the dialogue and be a true creative force for this content series.” GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
