Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release Mainline Esports Tournament Company Lands $6.8M in Series A Funding to Grow Operations and Expand Technology Platform Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Mainline helps colleges and brands manage, monetize and market their esports programs Funding round led by Work America Capital and other strategic investors Customers include ESPN’s Collegiate Esports Championship, and major colleges and universities HOUSTON–(BUSINESS WIRE)–October 31, 2019– Mainline , an esports tournament software and management company, today announced it raised a $6.8 million Series A funding round led by Work America Capital , alongside investments from individual investors in professional sports and other strategic backers. Mainline will use the funds to enhance its esports tournament software technology platform; increase its marketing presence; hire development, marketing and sales talent; and expand its event management customer base to additional major brands.
“The world of esports and gaming is exploding; however, continuity in tournament organization is lacking, keeping the sport from really taking off in other viable and exciting markets,” said Chris Buckner, Mainline Chief Executive Officer. “Mainline gives brands the tools they need to run powerful esports programs that will evolve the quickly maturing industry to the benefit of players, students and the greater esports ecosystem.” Mainline’s licensed, white-labeled tournament platform specializes in hosting and enabling entities to manage, monetize and market their esports programs. Formerly a subsidiary of Houston-based FanReact (now Truss), which was founded by Buckner, Mainline was spun off in 2016 to specifically serve the collegiate esports market. Mainline has now grown beyond collegiate esports to run thousands of online tournaments and live events for some of the biggest brands and gaming organizations in the world, including Dreamhack, PUBG Corp, and Clutch Gaming. Mainline also played a core role with ESPN on their inaugural Collegiate Esports Championship earlier this year.
“As with any industry that takes off like a rocket, problems arise that must be solved through innovation. Mainline is standardizing, organizing and optimizing the esports industry, paving the way for more players, more teams, more money and bigger, better tournaments,” said Mark Toon, managing partner of Work America Capital.
Mainline’s executives hail from NRG Esports, the Professional Esports Association, Sony Pictures Entertainment, Tespa, ESL, Dreamhack, ESEA, ELEAGUE, Blizzard and Twitch. Current partners and integrations include ESPN, Twitch and more.
Mainline’s Mandate to Streamline Esports Tournaments Collegiate esports is experiencing rapid growth. The largest collegiate esports tournament organizer Tespa has a membership of 850 schools, nearly 20,000 players and awarded more than $3 million in winnings. Globally, esports is booming as total industry revenue for 2019 is on track to hit $1.1 billion worldwide. As well, viewership for esports has increased from 335 million to 454 million total audience since 2017.
“The strategic vision of Mainline puts them in the driver’s seat with a consistent platform across amateur, collegiate and professional competitions. Given Mainline’s partnerships and customers, they have paved a way to grow quickly across all sports and into other markets,” said Toon. “We are excited to dedicate our time, resources and capital to the company.” About Mainline Mainline is an esports tournament software and management company focused on providing customers with their own esports offerings. Based in Houston, TX, Mainline helps colleges and brands manage, monetize and market their esports programs and tournaments. For more information, visit mainline.gg and twitter.com/mainlineesports.
1 Newzoo 2019 Global Esports Market Report View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20191031005719/en/ Gina Manassero (512) 553-2387 gtmanassero@gmail.com VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
