Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Epic adds free Infinity Blade content to Unreal Engine Marketplace Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Infinity Blade was an early standout hit on iOS.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Epic Games is passing on more of its art assets to the Unreal Engine development community.
 The company previously made content from Paragon free for developers. Now, it is going to continue that program with a year of asset drops. This includes art and more from the Epic’s classic iOS Infinity Blade adventures.
On the first Tuesday of every month beginning November 5, Epic will roll out these content packs into its Marketplace. This is in addition to five new packs of Infinity Blade assets that include over 1,000 pieces of content. The new Infinity Blade packs are available now and join seven previous asset packs from that game. Epic claims that this represents over $4 million in investment that it is giving away to devs to use for free for their games.
Epic Games is best known as the company that produces the battle royale shooter Fortnite. But its primary business is creating the Unreal Engine development tool set. The company has worked for years to make Unreal appealing to both large and small developers. And part of that process includes adding free content to the marketplace for studios that don’t want to build all of their art assets from scratch.
In March 2018, after closing its multiplayer online battle arena Paragon, the company added over $12 million worth of assets from that game to the Unreal Engine Marketplace.
 It later expanded that to $17 million and then also brought $3 million in Infinity Blade content to the service.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Developers are free to use the content in their own commercial games made in the Unreal Engine. This benefits Epic because it takes a cut of Unreal games sold on other stores. Or it can now even sell it through its own Epic Games Store.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
