Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Dropbox doubles Extensions support to include WhatsApp, Workplace by Facebook, Microsoft Teams, and more Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Dropbox app Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Dropbox is introducing a bunch of new integrations to its Extensions program today, as it looks to bake more functionality directly into its cloud storage service.
The San Francisco-based company first introduced Dropbox Extensions last November , designed to enable users to work with numerous third-party applications without leaving Dropbox. At launch, integrations included Adobe, Nitro, Vimeo, HelloFax, DocuSign, AirSlate, HelloSign, Pixlr, and SmallPDF.
Today, Dropbox is opening up its Extensions support to include WhatsApp, Workplace by Facebook, Microsoft Teams, Outlook, and more. Dropbox is also touting Gmail as one of its new integrations; however, it was actually quietly added a few months ago with no fanfare.
What today’s news means, however, is that users will be able to send files stored in their Dropbox account — on the web or through the Desktop app — to double the amount of services as they could previously.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Above: Dropbox Extensions: New integrations Workplace growth This represents a notable evolution for Dropbox Extensions, given that Workplace By Facebook now claims more than 3 million paid users , Microsoft Teams has 13 million users , and WhatsApp is among the most popular apps in the world.
Other new integrations include Line Works, a Slack-like enterprise app from Japanese tech titan Line ; video-editing tools WeVideo and Clipchamp; graphic design tool Canva; expenses tracking software Freshbooks; and document workflow software DocSend and Notarize.
One notable absence here is in fact Slack, which is now used by 12 million workers globally , however it’s worth noting that Dropbox separately announced a much deeper integration with Slack back in June that goes beyond the more basic functionality of Dropbox Extensions.
* Dropbox also confirmed that it is planning to add more integrations via its Extensions program in 2020.
While Dropbox started life as a similar cloud storage tool, as it prepared for life as a public company it had to double down on its utility in the workplace. In other words, it couldn’t grow on consumer subscriptions alone. Indeed, Dropbox has been pushing tighter integrations with myriad business-focused services, including a partnership with Google that allows G Suite users to store their files in Dropbox.
For those who liked the simplicity of Dropbox for storing files , all these various updates and integrations add needless complexity to the mix and detract from its original appeal. But for those who need their cloud-based files to play nice with their enterprise tools, then today’s news will likely be greeted with open arms.
* Updated 11/01/19 with a clarification that Dropbox already integrates with Slack separate to the Extensions program.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
