Vox homepage Give Give Newsletters Newsletters Site search Search Vox main menu Explainers Crossword Video Podcasts Politics Policy Culture Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters More Explainers Israel-Hamas war 2024 election Supreme Court Buy less stuff Open enrollment What to watch All explainers Crossword Video Podcasts Politics Policy Culture Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters We have a request Vox's journalism is free, because we believe that everyone deserves to understand the world they live in. Reader support helps us do that. Can you chip in to help keep Vox free for all? × Filed under: Technology Artificial Intelligence Innovation What gets lost in the AI debate: It can be really fun The viral fake Drake and The Weeknd song tells us a lot about the future of AI.
By Shirin Ghaffary Apr 27, 2023, 7:30am EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: What gets lost in the AI debate: It can be really fun Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email A viral fake Drake and The Weeknd song, which an anonymous user posted online and claimed to make using AI, shows how good AI is getting at entertaining us.
Ollie Millington/WireImage Part of You’ve probably heard a lot lately about AI.
Everyone from Elon Musk to Joe Biden has been worried that AI could take over our jobs, spread misinformation, or even — if we’re not careful — one day kill us all. Meanwhile, some AI experts say instead of fixating on hypothetical doomsday scenarios in the long term, we should focus on how AI is actively harming us right now and the concentration of power in a handful of companies that are controlling its development. Already, the error-prone technology has been used to invent slanderous lies about people , hack bank accounts , and mistakenly arrest criminal suspects.
But near-term and long-term concerns aside, there’s a major component to why it feels like AI is suddenly taking the world by storm: It’s fun.
vox-mark Sign up for the newsletter Vox Technology Get weekly dispatches from Vox writers about how technology is changing the world — and how it’s changing us.
Thanks for signing up! Check your inbox for a welcome email.
Email (required) Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again.
Over the past few weeks, I’ve been playing around with the latest AI tools and talking to people who use them. I’ve found that the most exciting forms of AI right now are not the kind people are using to increase productivity by crunching spreadsheets or writing emails. (Although bosses love that idea!) They’re the kind being used to entertain us.
In just the past six months, AI has come an incredibly long way in helping people essentially create all kinds of media. With varying degrees of instruction, AI can craft photorealistic illustrations, design video games, or come up with catchy tunes with top-40 potential.
So what should we make of the fact that people are enthusiastic about using a technology that clearly has serious flaws and consequences? “I think it’s *completely* reasonable for people to be excited and having fun,” Margaret Mitchell, chief ethics scientist for AI platform Hugging Face, wrote in a text. Mitchell formerly founded the Ethical AI team at Google, where she was controversially fired after co-authoring a paper calling out the risks associated with large language models that power many AI apps. Mitchell and her co-authors were prescient early critics of the shortcomings of recent AI technology — but she acknowledges its potential, too.
Pietro Schirano is a design lead at financial services startup Brex. He was also an early adopter of GPT-4, the latest iteration of the technology from the company behind the viral ChatGPT app, OpenAI.
When GPT-4 came out in March , Schirano couldn’t wait to use it. He decided to test its ability to write working lines of code from simple prompts. So Schirano set out to recreate the video game Pong because, in his words, “it was the first video game ever, and it would be cool to do it.” In less than 60 seconds, after feeding GPT-4 a few sentences, copying the code, and pasting it into a code engine, Schirano had a working Pong he could play with. He was amazed.
“That was the first time that I had this sort of, like, ‘oh shoot’ moment where I’m like, oh my god,” he said. “This is different.” His tweet posting a video of the process went viral.
When I asked Schirano if he worries about AI replacing the jobs of people like him, he said he wasn’t too concerned. He says he uses ChatGPT at work to help him be more productive and focus on higher-level decision-making.
“The way that I see these tools is actually not necessarily replacing us, but basically making us superhuman, in a way,” said Schirano.
As my colleague Rani Molla has reported, many workers are in the same camp as Schirano. They don’t think their jobs can fully be replaced by AI, and they aren’t particularly terrified of it — for now.
I talked to Ethan Mollick, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton business school, about the wide range of reactions to new AI tools. Any kind of new “general purpose technology” Mollick said — think electricity, steam power, or the computer — has the potential for major disruption, but it also catches on because of unexpected, novel, and often entertaining use cases. New advancements in AI like GPT-4, he added, fit very well into that general-purpose technology category.
AI is “absolutely supercharging creativity,” said Mollick. “How can you not spend every minute trying to make this thing do stuff? It’s incredible. I think it could both be incredible and terrifying.” These fun creative ways to use AI also bring up the question of authenticity: Will it replace human creativity or merely help us in the production of it? Last week, a hip-hop song that sounded like a mashup of the artists Drake and The Weeknd went viral on social media.
 The song, posted by the anonymous user “ghostwriter,” claimed to be made with AI, and got millions of plays before it was taken down by major platforms.
The proliferation of this kind of AI-generated media has spooked record labels enough that Universal Music Group asked streaming services like Spotify to stop AI companies from using its music to train their models, citing intellectual property concerns. And last month, a coalition of record industry unions and trade groups launched the “Human Artistry Campaign” to make sure AI doesn’t “replace or erode” artists.
A few artists, though, have embraced the AI concept.
 The musician Grimes even asked fans to co-create music with her likeness and offered to split 50 percent of the royalties.
Mollick compared the debate around whether AI will replace artists to the introduction of the synthesizer to modern music. When the synthesizer first came out, people debated whether it was “ruining music,” and whether people who used the instrument were real musicians.
Ultimately, the real dangers of AI may not lie so much in the technology but in who controls it and how it’s used, Mitchell said.
“My issues are more with tech leaders who mislead and push out tech inappropriately rather than creative people exploring new technology,” A version of this story was first published in the Vox technology newsletter.
Sign up here so you don’t miss the next one! Will you support Vox’s explanatory journalism? Most news outlets make their money through advertising or subscriptions. But when it comes to what we’re trying to do at Vox, there are a couple reasons that we can't rely only on ads and subscriptions to keep the lights on.
First, advertising dollars go up and down with the economy. We often only know a few months out what our advertising revenue will be, which makes it hard to plan ahead.
Second, we’re not in the subscriptions business. Vox is here to help everyone understand the complex issues shaping the world — not just the people who can afford to pay for a subscription. We believe that’s an important part of building a more equal society. We can’t do that if we have a paywall.
That’s why we also turn to you, our readers, to help us keep Vox free.
If you also believe that everyone deserves access to trusted high-quality information, will you make a gift to Vox today? One-Time Monthly Annual $5 /month $10 /month $25 /month $50 /month Other $ /month /month We accept credit card, Apple Pay, and Google Pay. You can also contribute via The rise of artificial intelligence, explained How does AI actually work? 4 What is generative AI, and why is it suddenly everywhere? What happens when ChatGPT starts to feed on its own writing? The exciting new AI transforming search — and maybe everything — explained The tricky truth about how generative AI uses your data How is AI changing society? 18 What the stories we tell about robots tell us about ourselves Silicon Valley’s vision for AI? It’s religion, repackaged.
What will love and death mean in the age of machine intelligence? What if AI treats humans the way we treat animals? Can AI learn to love — and can we learn to love it? Black Mirror’s big AI episode has the wrong villain The ad industry is going all-in on AI The looming threat of AI to Hollywood, and why it should matter to you Can AI kill the greenscreen? How unbelievably realistic fake images could take over the internet Robot priests can bless you, advise you, and even perform your funeral AI art freaks me out. So I tried to make some.
How fake AI images can expand your mind AI art looks way too European An AI artist explains his workflow What will stop AI from flooding the internet with fake images? You’re going to see more AI-written articles whether you like it or not How “windfall profits” from AI companies could fund a universal basic income Show More Is AI coming for your job? 7 AI is flooding the workplace, and workers love it If you’re not using ChatGPT for your writing, you’re probably making a mistake Maybe AI can finally kill the cover letter Americans think AI is someone else’s problem Mark Zuckerberg’s not-so-secret plan to join the AI race The hottest new job is “head of AI” and nobody knows what they do Why Meta is giving away its extremely powerful AI model Should we be worried about AI? 10 Four different ways of understanding AI — and its risks AI experts are increasingly afraid of what they’re creating AI leaders (and Elon Musk) urge all labs to press pause on powerful AI The case for slowing down AI Are we racing toward AI catastrophe? The promise and peril of AI, according to 5 experts An unusual way to figure out if humanity is toast How AI could spark the next pandemic AI is supposedly the new nuclear weapons — but how similar are they, really? Don’t let AI fears of the future overshadow present-day causes Who will regulate AI? 9 The $1 billion gamble to ensure AI doesn’t destroy humanity Finally, a realistic roadmap for getting AI companies in check Biden sure seems serious about not letting AI get out of control Can you safely build something that may kill you? Why an Air Force colonel — and many other experts — are so worried about the existential risk of AI Scared tech workers are scrambling to reinvent themselves as AI experts Panic about overhyped AI risk could lead to the wrong kind of regulation AI is a “tragedy of the commons.” We’ve got solutions for that.
The AI rules that US policymakers are considering, explained Most Read The controversy over TikTok and Osama bin Laden’s “Letter to America,” explained Formula 1 grew too fast. Now its new fans are tuning out.
The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes might be the best Hunger Games movie yet Why are so few people getting the latest Covid-19 vaccine? What are Israel and Palestine? Why are they fighting? vox-mark Sign up for the newsletter Sentences The day's most important news stories, explained in your inbox.
Thanks for signing up! Check your inbox for a welcome email.
Email (required) Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again.
Chorus Facebook Twitter YouTube About us Our staff Privacy policy Ethics & Guidelines How we make money Contact us How to pitch Vox Contact Send Us a Tip Vox Media Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media
