Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Destiny 2 gets a premium progression battle pass Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Season of the Undying for Destiny 2.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Loot boxes aren’t dead , but many developers now favor the premium progression pass instead.
Destiny 2 is the latest game to adopt one of these digital Skinner boxes. But as Bungie director Luke Smith explains in a blog post , this isn’t going to change how you play the game. Instead, it’s about giving more people a way to feel like they are progressing.
Destiny 2’s first Season Pass is called Season of the Undying. You can get included with the Shadowverse expansion for $35 or you can purchase it separately for $10. In the future, each season will sell for $10. In addition to a variety of rotating activities and challenges, players will earn seasonal experience points that will go toward a season rank. As your rank improves, you unlock loot pre-determined loot.
Bungie is also including a free progression pass, but it won’t include nearly as many items.
Season of the Undying has 100 ranks, and Smith said it took him about an hour of playing to unlock one level. But if playing Destiny 2 for 100 hours (or more) during the three months of a season seems like a lot, you can pay more to catch up. Bungie is going to enable players to buy levels, but it’s only going to open that up in the last two-to-four weeks of Undying.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Destiny 2’s battle pass is for busy players This progression-pass system isn’t a new idea. It’s something that Valve first brought to prominence with its annual Compendium pack for Dota 2. Since then, games like Fortnite have made blockbuster levels of cash using the same method.
Now that Bungie is no longer working with publisher Activision, having a new way to generate revenue is probably part of the appeal of a battle pass. But Smith says the team is trying to design it for people who have too much going on in their lives.
“The ranks help our friends in the community who have families and/or full time jobs, or who are deep in finals territory at college,” reads the director’s blog. “Sometimes you just want to log in, grab some bounties, shoot some aliens or Guardians, earn XP, and chill with your friends.” This is the specific reason that you rank up in the season pass by doing anything in Destiny 2. Games like Fortnite and PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds put a lot of emphasis on finishing challenges to progress in their battle passes. Bungie doesn’t want players to feel like they’re wasting their time if they’re not maximizing their efficiency.
“You’ll make progress by earning XP doing the things you’re already doing in Destiny — defeating monsters and completing bounties and activities,” reads Smith’s blog. “This is about a new additive layer of predictable rewards for just playing the game.” And if you are one of the most hardcore Destiny 2 players, Bungie doesn’t want you to worry. The season pass isn’t going to negate your efforts. You’re still going to find the best gear in random chests when you defeat the toughest enemies.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
