Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Asmodee Digital launches The Lord of the Rings card game on Steam Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Asmodee Digital goes Tolkien.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Asmodee Digital has launched The Lord of the Rings: Adventure Card Game on the Windows PC and Mac via Steam.
The first adventure card game set in the fantasy world of J.R.R. Tolkien, The Lord of the Rings: Adventure Card Game lets players face epic challenges during solo and cooperative adventures.
The game is inspired by the cooperative Living Card Game, The Lord of the Rings: The Card Game. Combining a strong immersive narrative experience with rich deck-building strategies, The Lord of the Rings: Adventure Card Game will put players’ skills to the test.
Above: Asmodee Digital has launched The Lord of the Rings: Adventure Card Game.
Adventure card gaming Players can experience the only card game that lets them play an adventurer in Middle-earth. They will craft their own stories in the rich world of J.R.R. Tolkien by engaging in solo card-based battles or in collaborative campaigns with a friend in co-op mode.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! A new story in Middle-earth Gamers can develop and discover new stories in the world depicted in J.R.R. Tolkien’s books. They can build a Fellowship of heroes from some of the most iconic characters and wage battle in the most famous locations of the Third Age of Middle-earth.
A unique way of delivering new content Players can obtain full expansion packs that provide both campaigns with new quests and hero packs with thematic cards, forging their adventures in Middle-earth.
Above: Asmodee Digital’s The Lord of the Rings card game is out on Mac and PC via Steam.
Unique game mechanics Players build custom decks, each based around three heroes with unique abilities. They draw upon an ever-growing pool of cards based on the distinctive spheres of the selected heroes. Players can then challenge themselves along with friends to complete quests.
They progress through their story by defeating the forces of Sauron in combat, and by using willpower to resolve objectives. Willpower can also be added to the fate pool, used to trigger contextual abilities during a quest. In turn, the threat meter displays the increasing danger from Sauron, triggering roadblocks that can disrupt player strategies.
The latest Encounter 3: Gundabad Awoken is also included, allowing players to venture deep into the Orcish stronghold of Gundabad. Every step of the way, Sauron will unveil dynamic new abilities, including new Event, Shadow, and Treachery cards that will put players’ Fellowships to the test.
Thanks to the feedback provided by players during its Early Access phase on Steam, The Lord of the Rings: Adventure Card Game features a tuned user interface, a comprehensive tutorial, as well as refined gameplay mechanics.
All Early Access players will be offered the OST for free on Steam as a reward for their involvement in improving the digital version. To celebrate the game’s launch on Steam, a 50% discount is available for the Shadow’s Fall campaign until September 9.
During autumn 2019, The Lord of the Rings: Adventure Card Game will be released on PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch, and Xbox One. The game costs $20, and the Shadow’s Fall campaign is available for $5 until September 9, and then $10 afterward.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
