Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VB Event Qualcomm exec doubles down on the power of 5G and AI at the edge Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Kishore Chakravadhanula, Qualcomm’s product manager for robotics, believes 5G is the connective fabric that’s going to radically change the landscape for AI at the edge in the coming years. Addressing the audience at Transform 2019 this month, he said it will become as ubiquitous as electricity and Wi-Fi and will bring about massive change.
“5G is unique in that it’s been re-architected from a completely different perspective than regular technologies,” he said. “It’s built for massive data, ultra-reliability, and low latency. It will enable new use cases and applications that we’ve not thought about so far. This will enable new experiences for the end user.” To understand how 5G will change things , it’s important to first consider the challenges in AI at the edge (including the edge cloud). As billions of devices send more and more data, processing all this data in a timely fashion is going to be a massive challenge on the cloud side. Secondly, everything must be done securely while maintaining privacy. The final challenge is achieving all of this in real time.
“That is the biggest hurdle that most of these devices have to clear,” said Chakravadhanula. “The latencies are sometimes not acceptable, going to the cloud and coming back. Here is where on-device processing, on-device sensing, on-device decision-making, and maintaining security is going to change how things will evolve in the coming years.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! But the unique requirements of edge devices present their own challenges. Because they operate in a very constrained environment, they have low memory or storage. “They don’t have too much processing power,” he said. “Battery life is always an issue. Finally […] heat dissipation, especially in small form factor devices, is a challenge.” Alongside these issues are the requirements for AI. As Chakravadhanula explained, these are high-compute, multiple concurrency models that happen to run at the same time. They also need to run in real time and need to be always on.
“How do we marry or intersect these two diverging requirements at the edge?” Chakravadhanula asked. He went on to explain how 5G will be a game-changer in solving for these issues — particularly the challenges of massive data, low latency, and better experiences. In turn, this opens up massive opportunity for IoT — the ultra-reliability and low latency that enables machines, manufacturing, and more to benefit from AI without challenges.
“5G enables low-power wide area networks by switching down to narrowband IoT and LTE that is available today, but it’s derivative in the next generation,” said Chakravadhanula. “I’m from robotics, [and] nowhere else is this convergence of AI and 5G happening more, as we see all these kinds of use cases where this takes off.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
