Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Tetris is getting a battle royale mobile game Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Tetris 99.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The Tetris Company and N3TWORK announced today that they are starting a new partnership to create mobile games.
Tetris Royale will be the first project from this duo. It will be another Tetris game with a battle royale twist, similar to Tetris 99 on Switch. Tetris 99 is an exclusive for Nintendo’s platform, so Tetris Royale will give that experience to a larger audience. It is coming to iOS and Android with a beta test starting later this year.
“The Tetris Royale mode is a 100-player competitive mode where players will battle their way to the top of the leaderboards every season,” N3TWORK details in a press release sent to GamesBeat. “Players will have the ability to complete daily challenges while competing in the Tetris Royale mode to earn rewards including customization options as well as power-ups and boosters that can be used in battle.” N3TWORK is a games, media, and technology company best known for the mobile title Legendary: Game of Heroes, a puzzle-based role-playing game similar to the Puzzle Quest series.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
