Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Borderlands 2 VR PC gets rating, release date may not be far behind Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Borderlands 2 VR is 2K's first foray into triple-A VR.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
We’d always pegged Borderlands 2 VR for an eventual release on PC headsets. Gearbox Software made it clear that the game’s exclusivity for PSVR was always timed. After its window is up, the developer is free to bring it to other headsets. It looks like it’s doing just that. We’ve reached out to Gearbox for comment.
We missed this in the hassle of E3 but Borderlands 2 VR has been rated for PC via the ESRB. That’s not official confirmation the game will make its way over, but it’s about as close as it gets without an announcement. Presumably this version of the game will support the Oculus Rift, HTC Vive and Valve Index headsets at the very least. We wouldn’t be surprised to see Windows VR support too.
Borderlands 2 VR (PC) rated by ESRB pic.twitter.com/WBvzqdVG8r — Wario64 (@Wario64) June 14, 2019 Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Borderlands 2 VR brings the entire original game into headsets, though it doesn’t support cooperative play. Later this summer the PSVR version of the game will be getting all of the original title’s DLC for free.
 Hopefully the PC VR version of the game will also be getting that content.
We think this is a pretty good port of a fun game, though the lack of multiplayer definitely stings. “The small gameplay tweaks aren’t enough to rewrite a game that was designed around four-player co-op, but the core of the experience is so strong, rewarding, and entertaining that it serves as a feature-rich and exciting VR shooter in its own right despite its flaws,” we said in our review.
As for Borderlands 3 ? Gearbox says VR has been discussed but nothing’s been announced so far. Today the company also launches a new Penn & Teller VR experience.
This story originally appeared on Uploadvr.com.
 Copyright 2019 GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
