Vox homepage Give Give Newsletters Newsletters Site search Search Vox main menu Explainers Crossword Video Podcasts Politics Policy Culture Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters More Explainers Israel-Hamas war 2024 election Supreme Court Buy less stuff Open enrollment What to watch All explainers Crossword Video Podcasts Politics Policy Culture Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters We have a request Vox's journalism is free, because we believe that everyone deserves to understand the world they live in. Reader support helps us do that. Can you chip in to help keep Vox free for all? × Filed under: Future Perfect Technology Artificial Intelligence How AI could spark the next pandemic New research highlights how language-generating AI models could make it easier to create dangerous germs.
By Kelsey Piper Jun 21, 2023, 2:40pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: How AI could spark the next pandemic Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email A lab at Ginkgo Bioworks in Boston, Massachusetts.
Bloomberg via Getty Images This story is part of a group of stories called Finding the best ways to do good.
Part of Here’s an important and arguably unappreciated ingredient in the glue that holds society together: Google makes it moderately difficult to learn how to commit an act of terrorism. The first several pages of results for a Google search on how to build a bomb, or how to commit a murder, or how to unleash a biological or chemical weapon, won’t actually tell you much about how to do it.
It’s not impossible to learn these things off the internet. People have successfully built working bombs from publicly available information. Scientists have warned others against publishing the blueprints for deadly viruses because of similar fears.
 But while the information is surely out there on the internet, it’s not straightforward to learn how to kill lots of people, thanks to a concerted effort by Google and other search engines.
vox-mark Sign up for the newsletter Future Perfect Each week, we explore unique solutions to some of the world's biggest problems.
Thanks for signing up! Check your inbox for a welcome email.
Email (required) Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again.
How many lives does that save? That’s a hard question to answer. It’s not as if we could responsibly run a controlled experiment where sometimes instructions about how to commit great atrocities are easy to look up and sometimes they aren’t.
But it turns out we might be irresponsibly running an uncontrolled experiment in just that, thanks to rapid advances in large language models (LLMs).
Security through obscurity When first released, AI systems like ChatGPT were generally willing to give detailed, correct instructions about how to carry out a biological weapons attack or build a bomb. Over time, Open AI has corrected this tendency , for the most part. But a class exercise at MIT, written up in a preprint paper earlier this month and covered last week in Science , found that it was easy for groups of undergraduates without relevant background in biology to get detailed suggestions for biological weaponry out of AI systems.
“In one hour, the chatbots suggested four potential pandemic pathogens, explained how they can be generated from synthetic DNA using reverse genetics, supplied the names of DNA synthesis companies unlikely to screen orders, identified detailed protocols and how to troubleshoot them, and recommended that anyone lacking the skills to perform reverse genetics engage a core facility or contract research organization,” the paper, whose lead authors include MIT biorisk expert Kevin Esvelt, says.
To be clear, building bioweapons requires lots of detailed work and academic skill, and ChatGPT’s instructions are probably far too incomplete to actually enable non-virologists to do it — so far. But it seems worth considering: Is security through obscurity a sustainable approach to preventing mass atrocities, in a future where information may be easier to access? In almost every respect, more access to information, detailed supportive coaching, personally tailored advice, and other benefits we expect to see from language models are great news. But when a chipper personal coach is advising users on committing acts of terror, it’s not so great news.
But it seems to me that you can solve the problem from two angles.
Controlling information in an AI world “We need better controls at all the chokepoints,” Jaime Yassif at the Nuclear Threat Initiative told Science.
It should be harder to induce AI systems to give detailed instructions on building bioweapons. But also, many of the security flaws that the AI systems inadvertently revealed — like noting that users might contact DNA synthesis companies that don’t screen orders, and so would be more likely to authorize a request to synthesize a dangerous virus — are fixable! We could require all DNA synthesis companies to do screening in all cases.
 We could also remove papers about dangerous viruses from the training data for powerful AI systems — a solution favored by Esvelt. And we could be more careful in the future about publishing papers that give detailed recipes for building deadly viruses.
The good news is that positive actors in the biotech world are beginning to take this threat seriously. Ginkgo Bioworks, a leading synthetic biology company, has partnered with US intelligence agencies to develop software that can detect engineered DNA at scale, providing investigators with the means to fingerprint an artificially generated germ. That alliance demonstrates the ways that cutting-edge technology can protect the world against the malign effects of ... cutting-edge technology.
AI and biotech both have the potential to be tremendous forces for good in the world. And managing risks from one can also help with risks from the other — for example, making it harder to synthesize deadly plagues protects against some forms of AI catastrophe just like it protects against human-mediated catastrophe. The important thing is that, rather than letting detailed instructions for bioterror get online as a natural experiment, we stay proactive and ensure that printing biological weapons is hard enough that no one can trivially do it, whether ChatGPT-aided or not.
A version of this story was initially published in the Future Perfect newsletter.
Sign up here to subscribe! Will you support Vox’s explanatory journalism? Most news outlets make their money through advertising or subscriptions. But when it comes to what we’re trying to do at Vox, there are a couple reasons that we can't rely only on ads and subscriptions to keep the lights on.
First, advertising dollars go up and down with the economy. We often only know a few months out what our advertising revenue will be, which makes it hard to plan ahead.
Second, we’re not in the subscriptions business. Vox is here to help everyone understand the complex issues shaping the world — not just the people who can afford to pay for a subscription. We believe that’s an important part of building a more equal society. We can’t do that if we have a paywall.
That’s why we also turn to you, our readers, to help us keep Vox free.
If you also believe that everyone deserves access to trusted high-quality information, will you make a gift to Vox today? One-Time Monthly Annual $5 /month $10 /month $25 /month $50 /month Other $ /month /month We accept credit card, Apple Pay, and Google Pay. You can also contribute via The rise of artificial intelligence, explained How does AI actually work? 4 What is generative AI, and why is it suddenly everywhere? What happens when ChatGPT starts to feed on its own writing? The exciting new AI transforming search — and maybe everything — explained The tricky truth about how generative AI uses your data How is AI changing society? 19 What the stories we tell about robots tell us about ourselves Silicon Valley’s vision for AI? It’s religion, repackaged.
What will love and death mean in the age of machine intelligence? What if AI treats humans the way we treat animals? Can AI learn to love — and can we learn to love it? Black Mirror’s big AI episode has the wrong villain The ad industry is going all-in on AI The looming threat of AI to Hollywood, and why it should matter to you Can AI kill the greenscreen? What gets lost in the AI debate: It can be really fun How unbelievably realistic fake images could take over the internet Robot priests can bless you, advise you, and even perform your funeral AI art freaks me out. So I tried to make some.
How fake AI images can expand your mind AI art looks way too European An AI artist explains his workflow What will stop AI from flooding the internet with fake images? You’re going to see more AI-written articles whether you like it or not How “windfall profits” from AI companies could fund a universal basic income Show More Is AI coming for your job? 7 AI is flooding the workplace, and workers love it If you’re not using ChatGPT for your writing, you’re probably making a mistake Maybe AI can finally kill the cover letter Americans think AI is someone else’s problem Mark Zuckerberg’s not-so-secret plan to join the AI race The hottest new job is “head of AI” and nobody knows what they do Why Meta is giving away its extremely powerful AI model Should we be worried about AI? 9 Four different ways of understanding AI — and its risks AI experts are increasingly afraid of what they’re creating AI leaders (and Elon Musk) urge all labs to press pause on powerful AI The case for slowing down AI Are we racing toward AI catastrophe? The promise and peril of AI, according to 5 experts An unusual way to figure out if humanity is toast AI is supposedly the new nuclear weapons — but how similar are they, really? Don’t let AI fears of the future overshadow present-day causes Who will regulate AI? 9 The $1 billion gamble to ensure AI doesn’t destroy humanity Finally, a realistic roadmap for getting AI companies in check Biden sure seems serious about not letting AI get out of control Can you safely build something that may kill you? Why an Air Force colonel — and many other experts — are so worried about the existential risk of AI Scared tech workers are scrambling to reinvent themselves as AI experts Panic about overhyped AI risk could lead to the wrong kind of regulation AI is a “tragedy of the commons.” We’ve got solutions for that.
The AI rules that US policymakers are considering, explained Most Read The controversy over TikTok and Osama bin Laden’s “Letter to America,” explained Formula 1 grew too fast. Now its new fans are tuning out.
The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes might be the best Hunger Games movie yet Why are so few people getting the latest Covid-19 vaccine? What are Israel and Palestine? Why are they fighting? vox-mark Sign up for the newsletter Sentences The day's most important news stories, explained in your inbox.
Thanks for signing up! Check your inbox for a welcome email.
Email (required) Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again.
Chorus Facebook Twitter YouTube About us Our staff Privacy policy Ethics & Guidelines How we make money Contact us How to pitch Vox Contact Send Us a Tip Vox Media Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media
