Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Ultrahaptics acquires AR/VR pioneer Leap Motion for only $30 million Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Leap Motion publicly established itself as a pioneer in VR hand-tracking controls and DIY augmented reality gear , but reportedly didn’t generate much revenue — one reason its valuation sank from $300 million to $30 million as it entertained buyout offers from companies including Apple. Today, U.K.-based Ultrahaptics partially confirmed a Wall Street Journal report that it’s acquiring Leap Motion, seemingly at the low end of that range.
While the Journal characterized Ultrahaptics as a “rival” to Leap Motion, the latter’s CTO and cofounder David Holz underscored that the companies have actually worked together for almost six years. Their innovations are complementary rather than competitive, and Leap Motion’s tech is already used in Ultrahaptics products.
Ultrahaptics makes virtual control solutions that use targeted ultrasonic waves to create mid-air tactile sensations on hands, enabling a gesture control user to feel virtual objects without holding a controller or wearing VR gloves. Between the mid-air gesture sensing and sensations, a user could experience seemingly physical interactions such as a click when a VR or AR button is pressed, friction when a cube is turned, or a texture when running fingers across a surface. Working together, the companies’ engineers can “continue to create two hugely significant technologies,” said Ultrahaptics CEO Steve Cliffe, and “max out the potential of combining them.” Leap Motion’s mid-air gesture tracking technology has been widely praised for elegance and accuracy, leading Apple to twice pursue the company for an acquisition. But Holz reportedly criticized Apple’s innovation credentials and described it as “the devil” as the first potential deal fell through, while the second collapsed due to eleventh-hour disputes over valuation. Apple reportedly offered between $30 and $50 million for the company, one-tenth of its founders’ peak $306 million estimate.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Reportedly, Ultrahaptics paid around $30 million for Leap, and will acquire its patents and staff, including Holz, but not CEO and cofounder Michael Buckwald. It’s unclear whether the company’s open source AR helmet design North Star will continue in development after the acquisition, or whether Ultrahaptics will focus solely on evolving the company’s hand gesture technology.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
