Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Streamlabs unveils Creator Sites to help influencers monetize streams and grow brands Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Streamlabs has launched Creator Sites , a way for streamers and influencers to build their own websites and brands for better monetization.
The content creator-focused website builder will help livestreamers consolidate their online brands, monetize their streams, and grow their online business. It’s like Shopify for creators, and it offers options such as livestream donations and selling apparel and accessories from their own website.
Creator Sites is integrated with content platforms like Twitter, YouTube, Twitch, Mixer, Facebook, and Instagram. Cross-platform content aggregation allows the livestream, stream chat and an activity feed from all linked platforms to be displayed on the creator’s site. Creators receive a unique web address and professional email.
The platforms intuitive drag and drop user interface requires no background in web editing or knowledge about domains, cybersecurity, email server setup or SEO. Creator Sites act as a landing page to give viewers, potential sponsors, and business partners one central location to see the latest activity from the streamer.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! “Creator Sites give me the tools to build a website that serves as a community hub for my fans, and allows me to continue to grow my community in a unique way like never before,” said Ali ‘Myth’ Kabbani, a popular live streamer with over five million followers on Twitch, in a statement.
Above: Streamers are planning on using Streamlabs’ Creator Sites.
Basic features for Creator Sites are free, and the bespoke user experience has been tailored for content creators. For $149 per year, creators can subscribe to “Streamlabs Prime,” a new service in which members unlock advanced features for Creator Sites and additional features for a variety of Streamlabs products.
The features include a domain with information protection and enterprise-grade security, one-click custom email setup on personal domain, integrated commerce and monetization, website builder for beginner to advanced users, drag-and-drop building blocks for content creators, website theme gallery with content from top industry designers, SEO friendly websites with 100% user control and ability to add custom headers, content aggregation across all major platforms, cross-platform stats aggregation, and unique website layouts optimized for both desktop and mobile.
“Live streamers are unique in that their online persona is their brand. Showcasing that becomes complicated when your online presence is spread throughout a dozen different platforms,” said Ali Moiz, the CEO of San Francisco-based Streamlabs , in a statement. “Creator Sites provides an opportunity for live streamers to unite their online presence and reflect a consistent brand.” This new product is enabling content creators to position themselves effectively and professionally on their journey as a micro-brand without spending hundreds of dollars on design and web development.
The creator economy is rapidly growing. Streamlabs has processed over $400 million in donations to live streamers since 2015. Hours watched on Twitch increased 35% year over year, reaching 2.7 billion hours in Q1 of 2019. Live streamers are garnering mainstream media attention, changing digital media, and influencing consumer spending habits. As the creator economy continues to develop, Streamlabs remains committed to powering the content creator workforce by providing tools that help streamers turn their passion into a business.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
