Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Samsung blames user after Galaxy S10 5G melts down Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A Samsung Galaxy S10 5G was ruined by internal burning, but the owner and Samsung disagree as to the cause.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Complaints about shaky data service might wind up being the tip of the iceberg for Samsung’s flagship Galaxy S10 5G , as the company is now combating a South Korean customer’s claim that his six-day-old phone caught on fire “without reasons.” According to the AFP (via Economic Times), the manufacturer is blaming an “external impact” for the damage, which appears to have burned the device from the inside out, leaving it inoperable.
The Galaxy S10 5G is the world’s first fully integrated 5G smartphone, officially hitting South Korean stores via three carriers on April 5.
 It’s currently scheduled to arrive in the U.S.
on May 16 via Verizon before becoming available from other carriers.
Photos of the device from the user, identified only by the surname Lee, show comprehensive damage to the front, rear, and sides of the new phone ranging from cracked glass to melted plastic and metal. Lee claims that the S10 5G was sitting on a table when it “started smelling burnt and smoke soon engulfed the phone,” and that he dropped the device because it was so hot. When he reached out to Samsung, the company refused to replace or refund the $1,200 purchase, suggesting that he was at fault.
“We got the product and completed the external inspection and X-ray inspection,” Samsung said in a statement , “but the external traces are obvious. We can’t find the product defects. It may be caused by the external impact on the smartphone.” While the cause of this issue remains unclear, Samsung doesn’t have a sterling track record with cutting-edge smartphones. Two and a half years ago, exploding batteries caused the company to kill the Galaxy Note7 , and last week, the company delayed its flexible Galaxy Fold due to screen hinge issues discovered by reviewers only days before units were to hit stores. The company has denied responsibility for Galaxy S10 5G cellular connectivity issues that South Korean users previously reported.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
