Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Power Rangers: Battle For The Grid summons a story mode on the consoles Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Power Rangers: Battle for the Grid is getting a new story mode with the console version of the game via a free downloadable update.
Developed by nWay , the new content for PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch, and Xbox One will introduce several new elements requested by players, including a new “story mode” by the acclaimed writer Kyle Higgins.
The update will also have new characters, battle arenas, and voiceovers from original cast members. nWay made the game in a partnership with Hasbro and Lionsgate.
Power Rangers: Battle for the Grid pits new and classic Rangers and villains from the multiverse’s 25-year history against one another in epic team battles. The game is currently available as a digital download starting at $20.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Story mode Above: Power Rangers: Battle for the Grid.
Gamers can now play through a storyline written and voice-directed by writer/director Kyle Higgins (Mighty Morphin Power Rangers: Shattered Grid, Nightwing, Batman: Gates of Gotham).
The mode also features original artwork by Eisner Award-winning illustrator Dan Mora (Go Go Power Rangers, Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Klaus). In this new mode, players experience a re-imagining of the Shattered Grid event from Boom! Studios’ Power Rangers comic book series.
When Lord Drakkon, an evil alternate version of Tommy Oliver, sets off a massive campaign across time and space to destroy all Power Rangers, they must band together and fight back, before all falls to his armies.
New voiceovers by original cast Above: Power Rangers: Battle for the Grid’s story mode is available on the Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, and PlayStation 4.
The new content includes story and combat voiceovers performed by original Power Rangers cast members, including Jason David Frank (Tommy Oliver), Austin St. John (Jason Lee Scott), David J. Fielding (Zordon), Kerrigan Mahan (Goldar), and Meghan “Strawburry17” Camarena (Kimberly).
New characters Three new characters include: Dragon Armor Trini: When the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers were viciously attacked by the Black Dragon, a powerful Zord from another dimension with the capability to warp Ranger powers, they were in for the fight of their lives. After he was defeated, Trini was able to refashion the Zord into a powerful suit of enhanced armor.
Udonna: Udonna is a powerful sorceress who trains the Mystic Force Power Rangers in the art of magic. As the Mystic Force White Ranger, this accomplished sorceress uses the power of snow to freeze evil.
Cenozoic Blue Ranger: The Cenozoic Blue Ranger was a loyal and powerful soldier who served with Zordon, the original Red Ranger. Eons after his tragic demise at the hands of the traitorous Green Ranger Rita Repulsa, his Power Coin was found by a teenager named Billy Cranston, who then took on the Blue Ranger mantle.
New Arenas Four new battle arenas are: Selectable Arenas: Corinth and Planet Earth: Cenozoic Era Non-Selectable Arenas (Story Mode only): Command Center (Malfunctioning) and Lord Drakkon’s Throne Room (Flashback) Power Rangers: Battle for the Grid emphasizes accessibility without sacrificing depth and complexity.
Power Rangers: Battle for the Grid can be played online and offline. In online mode, players are matched against similarly skilled players from across the world in “Ranked Mode” to compete for League Points, or just for fun with no points lost played in “Casual Mode.” Offline, players can play against another opponent or the computer in “Versus Mode” or fight in “Arcade Mode” to experience a series of battles that ultimately ends against a final boss.
The game also has a “Training Mode” which will allow players to hone their skills against an A.I. led player and a Tutorial to teach players the game’s core mechanics.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
