Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Facebook adds Windows support to Spark AR Studio Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Mark Zuckerberg using Spark AR with his kids and mother via Portal.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg announced today that the Spark AR Studio augmented reality app creation platform will now have support for Windows and Mac, with more features for better efficiency and interactivity.
Facebook introduced its AR Studio software suite for developers in 2017 so they could make augmented reality experiences for smartphones. And since last year’s F8, over one billion people have used AR experiences powered by Spark AR, Facebook said.
Facebook is also opening Instagram to the entire Spark AR creator and developer ecosystem this summer.
Hundreds of millions of people use these experiences monthly across Facebook, Messenger, Instagram, and Portal.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Speaking at F8 2019, Zuckerberg said the update to Spark AR Studio includes support for Windows, as well as new features that bring more efficiency, interactivity, and control to the AR creation process.
It includes a new feature that allows developers to break a project down into small reusable chunks called Blocks. They can use Blocks to better organize a project or create Blocks to help jumpstart a project. Developers can share these Blocks with each other.
In the latest version of Spark AR Studio, Facebook has rewritten its Patch Editor from the ground up with a new user interface with features such as Blocks and control over audio effects.
Zuckerberg showed his mother using Portal and a Spark AR app to wear a funny face while reading a book to his children.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
