Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google has helped 300,000 Android developers fix security vulnerabilities in over 1 million apps Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Android Pie Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google today offered an update on its Application Security Improvement Program.
 First launched five years ago, the program has now helped more than 300,000 developers fix more than 1 million apps on Google Play. In 2018 alone, it resulted in over 30,000 developers fixing over 75,000 apps.
Google originally created the Application Security Improvement Program to harden Android apps. The goal was simple: help Android developers build apps without known vulnerabilities, thus improving the overall ecosystem.
Application Security Improvement Program When an Android app is submitted to the Google Play store, the company scans it for a variety of vulnerabilities. If one is present, Google lets the developer know and helps them fix it. Google doesn’t distribute those apps to Android users until the issues are resolved.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Google compares the program to a health checkup: “Think of it like a routine physical. If there are no problems, the app runs through our normal tests and continues on the process to being published in the Play Store. If there is a problem, however, we provide a diagnosis and next steps to get back to healthy form.” More vulnerabilities By securing Android apps, Google is really beefing up Android security overall. It doesn’t matter if the security vulnerabilities were included accidentally or for nefarious reasons — if Google knows about them, they don’t get through.
The program covers a broad range of issues in Android apps, from vulnerabilities in certain versions of popular libraries to unsafe TLS/SSL certificate validation. And Google continues to expand it. In 2018, the company deployed warnings for six additional security vulnerability classes: SQL injection, file-based cross-site scripting, cross-app scripting, leaked third-party credentials, scheme hijacking, and JavaScript interface injection.
Given the success, Google plans to keep investing in the program. As new exploits emerge, the company will add them to the program’s warning list.
Google has made multiple Android security-related announcements this month alone. The company shared 2018 figures for its bug bounty numbers and Google Play Store app rejections.
 It also set new Android API level requirements to “improve the security of the app ecosystem.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
