Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Hearthstone’s Year of the Dragon: Genn and Baku in Hall of Fame, better adventures, and year-long story Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn It's the Year of the Dragon in Hearthstone.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The Year of the Dragon kicks off in April for Hearthstone , Blizzard Entertainment’s mammoth digital card game. It’s the top dog in the market, which research firm Newzoo estimated would be worth $2 billion by 2020.
 It’s entering its fifth year, and come April, it’ll send three sets of cards out of its Standard format … and make some in-game history while doing so.
Hearthstone is saying goodbye to more than the Year of the Mammoth when Journey to Un’Goro, Knights of the Frozen Throne, and Kobolds & Catacombs rotate out and usher in the Year of the Dragon. The world’s most dominant digital card game is also making a number of quality of life improvements — including sending cards from a Standard set into Wild for the first time since Blizzard introduced the format in 2016. It’ll also tell a single storyline over its next three expansions, something its designers have never done before. And it’s making changes to how its single-player solo adventures work.
But for now, the biggest news might be that two polarizing cards — Genn Greymane and Baku the Mooneater, which ushered in Even and Odd decks with 2018’s The Witchwood expansion — are going to the Hall of Fame.
All of these changes appear to be with making the playing experience better for most Hearthstone players. And that’s important to keep the millions who play Hearthstone engaged , buying card packs and other content, and showing that, as it turns 5 years old, Hearthstone is ready to face the challenge from Magic: The Gathering — Arena and other card games in this multibillion dollar market.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Hall of Fame Above: It’s going to be a Wild year for these two.
This year’s Hall of Fame honorees include a trio that are consistent pieces of some of the top decks in Hearthstone’s five-year history — and Genn and Baku, two of the most polarizing cards that Blizzard has ever made. Genn and Baku have enabled oppressive decks because of how their strengths — upgraded hero powers — make up for what at first appeared to be a weakness, lineups made from either odd or even mana cost cards.
Doomguard Naturalize Divine Favor Genn Greymane Baku the Mooneater All Odd/Even cards (Black Cat, Gloom Stag, Glitter Moth, and Murkspark Eel) As of publication, Hearthstone tracking site HSReplay has two Genn and Baku decks in Tier 1 : Odd Paladin and Even Paladin. Secret Odd Mage is top Tier 2, ahead off two types of Odd Warrior, Even Warlock and plain-ol’ vanilla Odd Mage. Odd Hunter leads Tier 3. HSReplay doesn’t track every Hearthstone player — just those who use it tools — but the community finds it to be one of the best sources of deck tracking, since Blizzard doesn’t release tier lists it gathers from its internal tools.
In Wild, the esports organization Tempo Storm puts out a meta report that has Even Warlock and Even Shaman in the top tier, with Odd Warrior and Odd Rogue in Tier 2 and Even Paladin in Tier 4. Again, like HSReplay, Tempo Storm doesn’t track every player — its meta report comes from a combination of analytics/tracking tools and the opinions/experiences of its contributing experts.
My concern here is that Genn and Baku will continue to help shape the Wild meta unchecked, and people who enjoy these decks in Standard may come into the format and further twist the landscape. In the last round of card adjustments, Blizzard changed Flametongue Totem (a 0/3 minion that gives each creature next to it +2 attack) from 2 mana to 3 mana, and this was in part to see if this could blunt Even Shaman’s power in Wild. The change did not.
Creative director Ben Thompson and lead game designer Mike Donais said that the design team will be keeping an eye on Even/Wild decks in Wild. I asked if they’d consider creating more cards that target Genn and Baku, such as a minion or spell that removes the hero power buff that comes with these decks.
“There’s already two cards that work against hero powers [ Mindbreaker and Saboteur ], and as time goes on, we will make more that target these kinds of cards specifically,” Donais said.
Doomguard has been a mainstay of Warlock decks for years. It’s a strong minion at 5 mana, with 5 attack and 7 health, but it does have a cost — you discard two cards when playing it. However, this drawback never kept it from finding use. It’s a core component of the Cubelock archetype, which dominated for a period in 2018.
Divine Favor is a 3 mana Paladin spell that’s key to Odd Paladin and any aggressive strategy for the class. It enables the player to match the hand size of their opponent. That’s great if you’re belching out cheap card after card, especially if you’re facing a control-style or combo deck that hold a lot of cards.
Druid’s Naturalize is a card that sees play depending on the meta (it’s a good card in Arena). It’s a 1 mana card that destroys a minion, enabling the foe to draw two cards. It’s going to the Hall of Fame for a couple of reasons. First, Hearthstone creative director Ben Thompson said the design team feels that Druid shouldn’t have hard removal — cards that when played destroy another creature. It also ended up finding a home in decks in which a player would destroy one of their own cards to reap its beneficial deathrattle (something that happens when a creature dies), like with Mecha’thun (which when it dies wins the game if you have no cards left in hand and your deck).
Naturalize “did not feel like a Druid thing, in terms of what is a vibe like to play Druid. Removal felt more like a Rogue thing,” Hearthstone creative director Ben Thompson said. “When you look at Rogue, you have — opportunities abound for removal, direct removal, whereas Druid felt like not necessarily the class that should be celebrated in.” Single-player improvements The Year of the Dragon’s first expansion hits in April, with its single-player adventure coming in May. This will come with a number of improvements, addressing some of the player complaints from previous expansions (including those from Rastakhan’s Rumble).
It’ll still be a mode in which you build a deck and take on a series of challenges. It’ll be split into five chapters, telling a story along the way. The first is free, starring a past character with ties to mages, while the other four will cost either 700 gold apiece or $20 total. And it’ll offer more replayability, as you’ll be able to choose one of four starter decks (three with themes along with a random deck) and three hero powers. Rewards will include dust, gold, golden cards, card backs, and card packs (including golden packs). You’ll also be able to track your progress better as well.
During the last standard year, single-player had been free. That’s changing this year, and I asked if this change had anything to do with Activision Blizzard’s last earnings report, in which it announced a layoff of nearly 8 percent of the company despite CEO Bobby Kotick saying that “our financial results for 2018 were the best in our history.” “No, actually,” Thompson said. “The focus there being more around the idea that this experience is so much more deep and so much more value there from the perspective of all the different things we’ve added to that mode. … You have what feels like a Freeze Mage. You have a Fire Mage. You have this more spell-powered Mage, when you consider that the second hero power changes the cost of spells in your hand. Things like that make it a multi-splendored way to play this specific one deck. And then once you start unlocking the next location after that, carrying these heroes across their own chapters where you first unlock them and into each others, and exploring their own loadouts, which make them feel significantly different as well, is really more a testament to just how many variables and how deep this experience is.” 1 2 View All Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
