Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Workplace by Facebook passes 2 million paid users Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Facebook’s workplace community and productivity app Workplace by Facebook now has more than 2 million paid users, the company announced today in a blog post. This is the first time Facebook has shared the number of paid users for its enterprise app made to rival Slack and Microsoft Teams, a company spokesperson told VentureBeat in an email.
Up until now, Facebook has only shared that Workplace by Facebook is used by more than 30,000 organizations around the world, a figure first shared in 2017.
By comparison, Slack has 10 million daily active users and 3 million paid users , while Microsoft Teams said last fall that its team communications chat app is used by 329,000 organizations.
Workplace by Facebook incorporates select features from the Facebook app — such as live video, likes, and a News Feed — into its offerings and services. Workplace also connects with popular public cloud storage and SaaS offerings like Box, Google Cloud, Salesforce, and HubSpot.
The 2 million paid users figure does not include nonprofit or education users who were provided Workplace premium offerings for free last year.
Last year, Workplace by Facebook introduced integrations with more than 50 SaaS providers , including Jira by Atlassian, ServiceNow, and voice call services like Vonage, Blue Jeans, and Zoom.
Since the launch of Workplace in October 2016 , Facebook executives have contended that its service is distinct from others because it’s made for entire organizations to communicate with each other rather than a smattering of teams within an organization. Facebook also announced today that Workplace users include over 150 companies with more than 10,000 users. New customers added in the past year include Nestle, AstraZeneca, and Delta Airlines.
To compete with similar offerings from Slack and Microsoft Teams for interorganizational communication, last fall Workplace introduced multi-company chat groups and video calls.
 Last summer, Facebook acquired enterprise chat app Redkix to integrate into Workplace.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
