Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release The 2018 Proppant Market Report: One Trillion Pounds and Counting Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn HOUSTON–(BUSINESS WIRE)–February 28, 2019– PropTester, Inc. and KELRIK LLC announce the 2018 Proppant Market Report will be released on March 4, 2019. The Proppant Market Report is an annual review of the global proppant market in relation to prior years. The proppant industry supplied 230 billion pounds (115 million tons) of sand, ceramic and resin coated proppants in 2018.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20190228005157/en/ Cumulative Proppant Market 1990 – 2018 (Graphic: Business Wire) In addition to setting historical highs for frac sand, the industry surpassed one trillion cumulative pounds of proppant since hydraulic fracturing commenced. “Based on our data commencing 1980, and accounting for estimated and select known annual volumes as far back as 1950, the one trillionth pound of proppant was very likely produced in early 2018. That is a suitable number to highlight the growing importance of the proppant industry and to mark the 15 th year of the report’s inception,” noted Brian Olmen of KELRIK LLC.
Frac sand was the primary beneficiary in 2018. Demand for ceramic proppants also improved due to activity outside of North America. Demand for ceramic and resin coated proppants were below their historical highs established in 2014.
North American frac sand capacity continues to grow and surpassed 440 billion pounds from 150 production facilities in early 2019. “With the significant increase in capacity, the sand industry, much like the North American ceramic and resin coated proppant sectors, will possibly have to navigate the impacts of excess supply in an uncertain 2019,” added Michelle Stribling of PropTester, Inc. “Due to the dominance of cost conscious, sand-intensive completion strategies, we continue to expand the report with additional details on emerging sand sources as well as updates on ongoing technical studies.” The Proppant Market Report (PMR) is annually by PropTester, Inc. and KELRIK, LLC. The contributing authors have over 100 years of direct experience in the production, testing, sale and use of all types of proppants. PMR subscribers have access to an electronic copy of the confidential report, as well as online access and interactive maps on www.proppantmarketreport.com.
 For further information, please contact Michelle Stribling or Amanda Chavey at (888)-756-2112 or visit www.proptester.com.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20190228005157/en/ Michelle Stribling PropTester, Inc.
713-826-5971 mstribling@proptester.com VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
