Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sviper raises $2.8 million for mobile game studio Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Sviper's team Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Sviper is a new mobile gaming studio in Hamburg, Germany, and it has raised $2.8 million in funding from Modern Times Group.
To date, the company has raised $4.3 million. In addition to MTG, all existing shareholders participated in this funding round, including Sviper’s seed investor Global Founders Capital. The funds will be used to further expand the business and to grow the studio.
Ole Schaper, Mark Buchholz, and Michael Reichert started Sviper in 2016. Their latest game is Super Spell Heroes, a real-time 1-vs.-1 puzzle duel game. The title has caught on, and because of that, MTG has seized the opportunity to invest.
“Super Spell Heroes is a thrilling game that has convinced us of the potential of Sviper and its whole team. We are looking forward to upcoming projects and a mutually promising cooperation,” said Arnd Benninghoff, executive vice president of games and esports at MTG, in a statement.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Above: Super Spell Heroes MTG, the Swedish digital entertainment group, has been actively investing in games and esports. Investing in the fast-developing European mobile gaming business is one of the next crucial steps.
“We are very proud to work with such a competent and experienced international partner as MTG and welcome them to our pool of investors,” said Schaper, in a statement. “Their expertise in the digital world is an inspiration and a great opportunity for us to grow as a part of the MTG family.” Sviper has 10 employees.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
