Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Optic Gaming partners with Champion Athleticwear as esports and brands get hitched Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Optic Gaming has teamed up with Champion Athleticwear.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Optic Gaming has won a lot of esports competitions over the years, and its reward is a new partnership with athletic apparel brand Champion Athleticwear.
The Frisco, Texas-based Optic Gaming has entered into a collaborative partnership with Champion Athleticwear, makers of authentic athletic apparel since 1919. Such deals will help esports become a $1.7 billion business by 2021, according to market researcher Newzoo.
OpTic and Champion will work together on a number of projects to bring co-branded apparel to the esport giant’s fan community, the partnership represents one of the apparel company’s deepest investments into esports products, starting with a year-long campaign to create co-branded clothing in collaboration between Champion and OpTic’s creative teams.
“The awesome Optic community, the Green Wall, is all about style and confidence, and just like their name says, Champion comes from a legacy of winners dating back a hundred years. It’s a perfect fit,” says Joe Hills, head of brand strategy for Optic Gaming, in a statement. “Working this closely with Champion is a huge deal for us, because it means that the Optic community is helping to push mainstream awareness of esports in popular culture, and it’s a show of faith for Champion, who want to co-brand their apparel to a community of passionate and loyal fans from all over the world.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Above: Optic Gaming and Champion.
I’ve watched the Optic Gaming team play in Call of Duty tournaments over the years, and they’re consistently competitive.
Starting March 1st, Champion Athleticwear and OpTic will initiate their year-long collaborative campaign with a series of specialized co-branded designs for T-shirts, hoodies, long sleeves and jerseys which will be available Champion’s retail stores in Los Angeles and New York.
The items hit Optic’s online storefront, store.opticgaming.gg, on March 2. In Q2 2019, Champion and OpTic will embark on an unprecedented retail activation for an esports enterprise, with new collaborative designs being released in Q3. More details on Q2 and Q3 activations will be revealed at a later date.
“Since the 1919 founding of Champion Athleticwear, we have always been looking to the future of sports apparel. This rich tradition continues with this collaboration with our dynamic and winning partners at OpTic Gaming,” said Matt Waterman, general manager of Champion, in a statement. “Alongside the creative team at OpTic, we’ll be creating clothing that appeals to all esports and gaming enthusiasts, and a style that brings the same energy that OpTic brings to every match.” Optic Gaming was founded in 2006 by Hector Rodriguez. It is now owned by Neil Leibman, owner of the Texas Rangers.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
