Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google’s endpoint verification now lets Google Cloud admins approve or block PCs Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Endpoint verification — a Google Cloud tool that enables network managers to see screen lock, disk encryption, OS version, and other data about devices accessing corporate information — is becoming a bit more versatile starting today. Now admins can designate endpoint machines running Chrome as “approved” or “blocked,” and use those tags to configure access levels within Access Context Manager. Moreover, they can decide whether additional review is needed for newly registered devices before they’re tagged as approved.
In a blog post , Google notes that it is bringing desktop access controls in line with what’s available for mobile devices through Google Cloud’s mobile device management suite.
Here’s what’s new, specifically: Those with the right credentials can view the entire inventory of PCs accessing sensitive data and approve or block access for specific devices based on “any criteria” — for example, lost laptops, or PCs belonging to newly promoted users who need access to an expanded set of internal apps.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! To get started, you first need to register devices with endpoint encryption by turning on endpoint sync in the Admin Console and installing the endpoint verification extension (in Chrome browser and Chrome OS) or native helper (on Mac and Windows devices). Once that’s done, head to Admin Console > Device Management > Setup > Device Approvals, which is where you’ll see a checkbox to set an access policy (by default, devices will be approved and can be later blocked) along with a field for the email that’ll receive approval request notifications.
After a device has been registered via endpoint verification, you’ll be able to switch on access restriction in the Access Context Manager. To approve or remove access, launch Admin console > Device Management > Device Approvals, which will pull up a list of clients in a pending approval state.
All future “approve” and “block” actions will be logged as audit events in the Admin Console for posterity, Google says, and further access policies can be configured in Access Context Manager.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
