Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Switch sales strong, but Nintendo pulls back forecast Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Nintendo Switch.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Nintendo reported strong third fiscal quarter earnings for the three months ended December 31, with Super Smash Bros. Ultimate fueling sales of the Switch video game console. But Nintendo still cut its forecast for the Switch in the fiscal year, saying it will now sell only 17 million Switch units by March 31, rather than 20 million.
The Switch had its best quarter in history, with 9.4 million consoles sold, up 30 percent from a year earlier. Sales of software were also good because of big holiday sales for Super Smash Bros. Ultimate (12 million copies sold), Pokémon: Let’s Go (10 million copies), and Super Mario Party (5.3 million copies).
Quarterly operating profit was 158.6 billion yen, or $1.45 billion, up 36 percent from 116.5 billion yen a year earlier. Revenue was 608.4 billion yen, or $5.6 billion, in the quarter. Analysts had expected $1.31 billion in operating profit on revenue of $5.17 billion.
Above: Nintendo Switch and 3DS hardware sales.
Since April, Nintendo has sold 14.5 million Switch consoles, but the first quarter (Nintendo’s fourth fiscal quarter) is usually a weak one for hardware sales. Overall, the Switch has sold 32.27 million consoles since launching it in March 2017. Overall, Nintendo has sold 163.6 million Switch games.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The Switch is a smashing success compared to the Wii U, which sold 13.56 million units and 102.7 million games over six years. The most successful Switch game to date is Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, which has sold 15 million copies.
Nintendo has quite a war chest. The company has $6.7 billion in cash as part of its $13.6 billion in current assets, with only $3.6 billion in total liabilities.
Nintendo delayed the launch of its mobile game based on Mario Kart , and it also recently said it was rebooting the whole development of Metroid Prime 4. Bayonetta 3 doesn’t have a launch date yet either. But this year, Nintendo plans on shipping Switch titles that include New Super Mario Bros U Deluxe (launched January 11), Yoshi’s Crafted World (coming March 29), Fire Emblem: Three Houses (spring 2019), Pokemon RPG (late 2019), Animal Crossing for Switch (2019), Luigi’s Mansion 3 (2019), Daemon X Machina (2019), DragonQuest Builders 2 (2019), and Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3: The Black Order (2019).
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
