Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Intel’s interim CEO Bob Swan gets the job permanently Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn New permanent Intel CEO Robert Swan Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Chip giant Intel has appointed Robert (“Bob”) Swan as its new CEO, seven months after giving him the job on an interim basis, following Brian Krzanich’s departure.
Krzanich resigned last June under somewhat peculiar circumstances , after he was found to have engaged in a “consensual relationship” with an employee a while back. The relationship, which only came to light much later, violated an internal “non-fraternization policy” that applies to all senior managers.
Swan began his career at General Electric and spent nine years as chief financial officer (CFO) of eBay. He later joined investment firm General Atlantic, before leaving to become Intel’s CFO in 2016 — a role he has continued to hold while serving as interim CEO.
Now, however, Swan will be 100 percent dedicated to the leadership position, as well as joining the board. Meanwhile, Intel’s vice president of finance, Todd Underwood, is stepping into the CFO role on an interim basis, pending a permanent replacement.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “In my role as interim CEO, I’ve developed an even deeper understanding of Intel’s opportunities and challenges, our people, and our customers,” Swan said in a statement.
 “When I was first named interim CEO, I was immediately focused on running the company and working with our customers. When the board approached me to take on the role permanently, I jumped at the chance to lead this special company.” Swan is Intel’s seventh CEO in its 50-year history.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
