Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Comcast Xfinity X1 will let customers pull up Super Bowl stats with voice Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
What’s better than watching the Rams face off against the Patriots in the Super Bowl while hanging with your best buds? Bossing around your DVR while you watch the game, of course. Comcast today detailed commands for Xfinity X1 set-top boxes that’ll let you use voice commands to pull up a rundown on players, complete party prep, queue up tunes, and more — all in service of the Big Game.
To get the latest player totals, shout something like “Tom Brady vs. Jared Goff,” “The Patriots vs. the Rams,” “Show me Julian Edelman,” or “Show me Rams leaders” in the general direction of your X1 remote control (after pressing the microphone button). For pregame news and post-game highlights, try “Super Bowl” or “NFL.” And to get a real-time feed of stats broken down play-by-play, say “X1 Sports app” to launch the app.
But wait! There’s more. The X1 will supply snack recipes if you’re peckish — simply say: “Show me wings recipes on YouTube.” Or if you’re waiting on pizza delivery and happen to have a front door camera installed, shouting “Xfinity Home, show me front door camera” will pull up a live feed right away.
X1’s media prowess extends to music curation. It’ll pull up highlights from Maroon Five, this year’s halftime headliner, with the command “Show me Maroon Five videos on YouTube,” or rock Queens’ enduring classic if you say “Play ‘We are the Champions’ on Pandora.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Xfinity Home and Xfinity Internet subscribers get an even greater range of commands. X1 will turn connected lights red and blue if you say “Xfinity Home, go Patriots!” or yellow and blue if you say “Xfinity Home, go Rams!” And it’ll show the Wi-Fi password on-screen if you tell it “Show me my Wi-Fi password,” saving you the trouble of having to endlessly repeat it.
Super Bowl-specific commands like “Show me Rams top scorers” will work during the game on Sunday, but the others are live now.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
