Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Consumer spending on mobile games grew 8% to $210 million on Christmas Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Consumer spending on Christmas grew 8% to $210 million in 2019.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Consumer spending on mobile games grew 8% to $210 million on Christmas, according to a report by mobile analyst firm Sensor Tower.
That was up from $195 million last year. U.S. mobile gamers spent $58 million, or 2% more than Christmas 2018. And mobile games accounted for 76% of worldwide app spending on Christmas and 73% of U.S. spending.
PUBG Mobile was the top-grossing mobile game on Christmas, making $8.5 million worldwide and growing 431% from a year ago.
Spurred by new device sales, first-time mobile users, and consumers flush with gift-card credit, worldwide spending across the App Store and Google Play on Christmas topped $277 million according to Sensor Tower estimated. This represented combined year-over-year growth of 11.3% for the stores, which brought in a total of $249 million in user spending on the same day in 2018.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Above: Sensor Tower’s Christmas spending estimates for mobile apps and games.
Consumer spending in apps and mobile games on Christmas accounted for about 5% of all revenue generated by the stores for December, which reached nearly $5.1 billion globally, Sensor Tower said. This was 8% greater than the approximately $4.7 billion spent across both platforms during December 2018.
The majority of mobile spending on Christmas, approximately $210 million, was focused on the games category.
Non-game apps accounted for approximately 2% more of all spending this Christmas compared to a year prior, bringing in an estimated $67 million. This reflected year-over-year growth of about 24% from $54 million. Entertainment category apps, which include streaming video services such as Disney+ and Tencent Video, accounted for the largest portion of non-game spending — 24% — on the App Store, while 16% of Google Play revenue outside of games came from that store’s top-earning category for the day, social.
The top non-game app for overall spending on Christmas was Tinder, with $2.1 million in revenue globally. Apple’s App Store accounted for 70% of spending between the two platforms at $193 million, growing about 16% from a year ago. Approximately $84 million was spent on Google Play, which represented Y/Y growth of 2.7 percent.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
