Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Analysis 5 IPO flameouts that defined 2019: Uber, Lyft, Pinterest, Slack, and WeWork Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Adam Neumann speaks onstage on January 9, 2019 in Los Angeles, California.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Pumping huge sums of money into private companies that lack sustainable business models turns out to be a terrible idea. But despite the calamitous IPOs of Uber, Lyft, Pinterest, Slack, and WeWork, you can be confident no lessons will be learned.
Despite all the endless hype about how innovative these companies were, they limped out of the IPO gate, each wounded in ways that should have been obvious. They either lacked anything actually resembling true digital innovation or had a nice service that was easily replicated. Or, in the case of WeWork, there was simply no there there.
It’s easy to point the finger at the founders, but blame also belongs to investors who chased the valuations to untenable heights simply to be part of the buzz. Board members at these companies seemed mainly to be showing up for the free coffee and donuts at meetings and the stock allowances.
These five IPO duds should be cautionary tales. But don’t count on it.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Uber IPO date: May 10 IPO price: $45 per share First day close: $41.57 December 24 close: $30.44 Bellyflop percentage: 26.7% Uber hired CEO Dara Khosrowshahi to cleanse the company’s reputation after the board chucked founder Travis Kalanick to the curb.
In condemning the company’s “pirate” culture, Khosrowshahi did just enough to get this sucker past the IPO goal line. But the growing cost of investments in things like food delivery services has resulted in mushrooming losses that have left investors sour on the company’s prospects.
Lyft Above: Reuters IPO date: March 29 IPO price: $72 per share First day close: $78.29 December 24 close: $45.70 Bellyflop percentage: 41.6% Lyft seemed like it was headed toward IPO goodness when it managed to beat Uber to the public market, raise its IPO price (thanks to strong investor demand), and get a strong first-day bounce. Nope. While its stock has bounced around, it has trended down, with big losses — like the $463.5 million loss it reported in the third quarter. Promises to reach postive EBITDA (aka, earnings without the bad stuff) by 2021 haven’t really convinced investors.
Pinterest Above: Reuters/Brendan McDermid IPO date: April 18 IPO price: $19 First day close: $24.40 December 24 close: $18.48 Bellyflop percentage: 24.6% Pinterest slouched toward the starting gate by pricing its IPO below its latest funding valuation , but then it appeared to be living the dream when its stock closed at $36.56 this summer. Alas, following lackluster earnings in October, investors punished Pinterest — despite growth in users, and even some traction in ad marketshare against Google and Facebook. For now, the red ink on the income statement is simply too daunting at a moment when investors are pretending to care about things like profits.
Slack Above: Reuters/Brendan McDermid IPO date: June 20, 2019 IPO price: Direct listing First day close: $38.62 December 24 close: $21.35 Bellyflop percentage: 44.7% Cult-like devotion propelled this workplace tool to unicorn status and a hotly anticipated IPO.
 Surely, enterprise applications were a good bet! In fact, Slack is not doing too badly. Revenue, usage, and the number of paying corporate customers are all growing nicely. The problem is that Microsoft revealed that its competing cloud-based-workplace-communication-collaboration-thingy, called Teams, has almost twice as many users as Slack.
 Critics say Microsoft’s numbers may be a bit inflated, but Slack’s costs are rising as competition with the tech giant increases.
WeWork Above: Scott Olson/Getty Images IPO date: Never IPO price: LOL Bellyflop percentage: 100% Ye gods. On August 14, WeWork filed the IPO prospectus that will live in infamy.
 It included a $904 million net loss for the first six months of 2019, with revenue of $1.5 billion.
The figures were so damning that backlash caused the entire company to unravel. First, the newly awakened board forced CEO and WeWork cult leader Adam Neumann to resign.
 A week later, the board pulled the IPO.
 WeWork’s leading investor, SoftBank, is now struggling to arrange terms of a bailout, which has led to questions about the company’s very existence.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
