Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Instagram now lets you send Stories only to ‘close friends’ Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Instagram's close friends allows you to send Stories to a select group of followers.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Stories have taken off on Instagram since it first copied the feature from Snapchat. Instagram Stories had more than 400 million daily active users as of June, and Facebook executives — including CEO Mark Zuckerberg — have said they believe the ephemeral format will overtake News Feed as the preferred form of sharing. But Instagram and other apps also have to contend with the fact that more and more social media users are keen to post updates within groups of just their closest friends.
So today Instagram is announcing the addition of a feature called “close friends” that allows users to limit who sees their Stories. First, you need to click on your profile, go to the side menu, and then create your close friends list — there’s no limit to how many followers you can add to that list. Then, when you create a Story on Instagram, you will have the option of sharing the Story with all of your friends or with only those on the close friends list.
Users who have been added to your close friends list will see a green ring around your profile when one of your Stories is in the lineup at the top of their homepage. They’ll also see a green badge when they view the story.
Like public Stories, those sent just to close friends will be up for 24 hours, so it’s not exactly akin to the private group messaging features Instagram and Snapchat already have. While users could limit who sees their Stories just by keeping a smaller follower count, the idea is that close friends will gives users the option to share more personal moments with a select group of friends — without having to limit who follows them on Instagram.
Instagram also added muting options earlier this year , so users already had the option to limit who they wanted to see News Feed posts and/or Stories from. Now users have another tool that will give them more control over who they want to interact with and when.
The feature is rolling out globally today on the latest versions of Android and iOS.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
