Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Nvidia’s latest plan to sell its old GPUs: Free V-Bucks! Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Get yourself some Fortnite goods with your graphics card.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Nvidia is getting in on the Fortnite partnership just like Nintendo, Sony, Microsoft, and Samsung. The graphics-hardware company revealed that it is now selling Fortnite Bundles of its GeForce GTX 1070 Ti, 1070, and 1060 GPUs.
 Each one of these packages include the Founder’s Edition Nvidia video cards and a code for digital goods in Epic’s battle royale shooter.
Whether you get the GTX 1070 Ti, 1070, or 1060, you’ll get the same Fortnite goodies in each box. When you redeem the code, it will instantly add 2,000 V-Bucks (the in-game currency) to your account. The Nvidia bundle also unlocks the rare Reflect outfit and Pivot glider, the uncommon Angular pickax, and the Response Unit back bling.
Of course, you still have to buy the graphics card to get those Fortnite items, and that means spending a few hundred dollars.
1060 Fortnite bundle: $299 1070 Fortnite bundle: $399 1070 Ti Fortnite bundle: $449 It’s worth noting that those prices are slightly discounted from their launch prices, but they’re more expensive than deals from the black Friday shopping weekend.
 The 1070 Ti, for example, was selling for $350.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! So you may want to wait to see if prices drop even further.
Nvidia has plenty of 10-series cards to sell It’s not unheard of for a company to continue marketing its last-generation products after introducing a successor. Ideally, Nvidia would want to wind down its last-gen cards as it launches its 20-series RTX models. But Nvidia has an oversupply of cards like the 1060, 1070, and 1070 Ti. The company built a ton of extra cards to meet crypto-mining demand, which has evaporated quickly alongside the falling value of cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin.
So with a glut of GTX 10-series cards in the supply chain, Nvidia is focusing on selling those. In August, it made Gigabyte and EVGA buy a large order of those old cards as part of their RTX deals. But Nvidia apparently still has plenty of cards of its own to sell. And if supply remains high, we could see prices continue to fall into the end of this year.
The good news here is that cards like the 1070 and 1070 Ti are excellent. So if you need a new GPU, now is the time to start looking for deals.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
