Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Anthem closed alpha: When it starts and how to get in Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn That face when you realize you'll be playing Smash during the Anthem alpha.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Electronic Arts is preparing to launch its next big game.
Anthem , an online multiplayer shooter from developer BioWare, is due out February 22 for PC and consoles. But EA doesn’t want to roll into that launch without giving you a chance to play it and without doing some tests. So the publisher is planning an alpha test that kicks off next weekend.
The Anthem alpha begins December 8 on PC, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One, and it will end the next day, December 9. Like the recent Fallout 76 beta, BioWare plans to run this test in sessions. So the Anthem servers will not run continuously for 48 hours. You can participate in all sessions, but you can only sign up to play on one device.
While EA recognizes that this is how many people will play Anthem for the first time, it is emphasizing that this is a technical test.
“It’s an opportunity for you to check out Anthem, but we’ll also be adjusting things like matchmaking and server load on the fly,” reads EA’s help page.
 “These community playtests are more limited than what we want to share in the prelaunch demos. All of these factors combined mean that we’re making access to our playtests limited, which is where the ‘closed’ part of the name comes from.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! What does that mean for you? Well, you can sign up for a chance to try the game, but EA is not guaranteeing your participation.
How to sign up But if you want to take your shot at playing Anthem, which impressed me when I tried it at E3, you need to do the following: Go to EA’s Community Playtesting website.
You’ll then need to sign in with your EA account, which you can register for on that page.
Select PC, PlayStation 4, or Xbox One for your platform.
You can also let EA know what time you want it to run a play session.
Click submit, and then keep an eye on your inbox to see if you get a message saying you’re in. That will include instructions on how to redeem any relevant codes.
This is the only way to get into the alpha as of the time of this posting. You don’t automatically get a code if you preordered or anything like that. But it wouldn’t surprise me if EA runs a beta later for people who preorder. For now, good luck getting in.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
