Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Virtual Desktop now mirrors Windows PCs on Oculus Go and Gear VR Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Two and a half years ago, the Oculus Rift version of Virtual Desktop enabled users of Facebook’s $400 headset to view their Windows PC desktops within a VR space — including multi-monitor support and theater modes for videos and games. Today, Virtual Desktop became available for less expensive Oculus Go and Samsung Gear VR headsets, bringing Windows mirroring to the untethered masses.
The Go and Gear version of Virtual Desktop arrives with a collection of nice features, including support for any PC running Windows 8.1 or later, quick switching between up to four different PCs, and multiple controller options ranging from the Go controller to Bluetooth mice, keyboards, and gamepads. Developer Guy Godin is promising to add multi-monitor support, 180/360-degree video support, and 3D content in the future.
Instead of piping mirrored video through a tethering cable, the Oculus Go and Gear VR stream PC content over Wi-Fi and/or the Internet. Godin recommends a 5GHz Wi-Fi connection for optimum quality, and says the app has been specifically optimized to provide a balance of high quality video with low latency despite its fully wireless functionality.
VentureBeat’s own Jeff Grubb found the Rift version of Virtual Desktop to be usable for extended periods of video viewing, gaming, and even working on a PC. Reviews of the new Go app have been similarly positive, suggesting that the streaming video quality is better than expected.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Virtual Desktop is $10 from the Oculus Store , and requires 753MB of storage on the Go or Gear VR. In addition to the Go and Rift versions, there’s also a Steam option for HTC Vive and Windows Mixed Reality users, plus an Oculus Quest version in the works for release next year.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
