Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Epic delays Fortnite’s account-merging tool to 2019 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn I love skin! Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
If you are waiting for the chance to bring together your Fortnite items from the PlayStation 4 version and the other versions together under one account, well you’re already used to waiting. Epic has delayed its account-merging tool, which it planned to launch before the end of November.
 Now, it is telling fans that it won’t have tool ready until sometime in 2019.
The merge tool is necessary because of Sony. Before September, Fortnite players needed a separate PlayStation 4 account. It would work with the mobile and PC releases of Fortnite, but not the other consoles. This meant if you made a purchase on the Switch, it wouldn’t carry over to the PS4.
But Sony reversed that policy in September, and that enabled Epic to begin launching new, unified accounts. Existing players with bespoke profiles would have to wait for the merge tool. And now, they’ll have to wait even longer.
“Due to some ongoing technical concerns, we will be delaying the Account Merge feature until early next year,” reads a Fortnite Team blog post.
 “We want to make sure that this process is thoroughly tested and working properly before releasing it to those of you currently looking to transfer purchases from other accounts to your primary account. We’ll be sure to update you as we get closer to the release of the feature, which will include a web page on launch to help guide you through the flow.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! What this means This is only a problem for people who have purchases on PlayStation 4 and also on one of the other consoles. And even those players are already earning all of their current and future progressions on a single profile regardless of where they’re playing. Epic’s account linking ensures that it tracks that progress in a platform-agnostic way.
This delay just means old skins will stay on old accounts. They will still eventually work on your one, primary profile, but just not yet. And really, who wants to wear old skin anyhow? GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
