Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Alexa can now talk about the midterm elections Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Amazon Echo Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Amazon today announced a series of updates to Alexa’s knowledge base so the intelligent assistant can deliver helpful information ahead of, during, and after the U.S. midterm elections scheduled to take place on Tuesday.
Alexa was asked millions of election-related questions in the lead-up to the 2016 election, Amazon VP of Alexa information Bill Barton said in a blog post today announcing plans to tap knowledge bases from the Associated Press and Ballotpedia.
Say “Alexa, what’s my election update,” and Alexa, basing answers on your location, will tell you about gubernatorial, congressional, or Senate candidates. Alexa is also now able to answer questions like “Alexa, when are the polls open?” On Election Day, as the votes come in, Amazon is working with the Associated Press for Alexa to deliver election updates and tell Echo speaker users how a candidate is doing based on their name and deliver up-to-date results in closely watched congressional or U.S. Senate races.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Amazon Echo Show devices will also display visual information when answering questions like who won the gubernatorial race in any particular state or how many seats Democrats won or lost in the House.
Alexa’s conversational AI hasn’t figured out how to answer all your questions yet related to voting. Ask “Alexa, where’s my nearest polling place” and you still get Yelp local business results.
Alexa is an assistant that Amazon wants to seem more humanlike, VP Miriam Daniel recently told VentureBeat.
The personality team charged to make the intelligent assistant have decided Alexa is a she and a feminist, but perhaps unsurprisingly, Alexa has no political party.
Ask Alexa if she is a Democrat or a Republican and the assistant will say “There are no voting booths in the cloud. Believe me, I’ve looked. It’s all just 1s and 0s up here.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
