Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages AISense’s Otter for Education brings voice transcription to colleges Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
San Francisco startup AISense in February launched Otter , a voice recording app that leverages artificial intelligence to transcribe speech, with the goal of developing tech that can accurately capture conversations in meetings, interviews, and conferences. Since then, it has added features such as call recording, inline image embedding, and advanced exporting options. Today, it announced a new service designed for institutes of higher learning: Otter for Education.
CEO Sam Liang describes Otter for Education as designed to “meet the needs” of universities and other higher level education institutions and as an affordable and real-time accessibility aid for students with note-taking accommodations. Tulane University, Western Kentucky University, and UCLA have signed on in early access earlier this year ahead of the launch of an enterprise release in December 2018.
“We are excited that Otter will bring AI into classrooms and will dramatically improve education effectiveness,” Liang said. “Students now have searchable class notes with synchronized audio, and real-time transcription makes classes accessible for students who have difficulty following what a teacher is saying.” Otter for Education affords instructors control over access to recorded transcripts and was designed to complement disability services and accessibility technologies already being used by universities, Liang said. Pricing has yet to be announced, but AISense is today opening pilot program signups to interested parties.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “Otter is a promising new assistive technology for students that require note-taking assistance,” said Kathryn Fernandez, executive director for campus accessibility at Tulane University. “It not only provides recording and synchronized speech recognition, it can recognize who is speaking and integrate search and keyword extraction.” Otter’s core technology, which was developed over the course of two years by a team that hails from Google, Yahoo, Facebook, MIT, Stanford, Duke, and Cambridge, is optimized for conversations. Otter can automatically separate individual speakers using a technique called diarization, and generate a unique print for each person’s voice.
Transcriptions are processed in the cloud and made available from the web or in Otter’s mobile app, where they can be searched, copied and pasted, scrolled through, and shared. A word cloud at the top of each recording tracks the most-used terms.
Otter competes with Microsoft’s eponymous Microsoft 365 , which can host live events with AI-powered features such as facial recognition of attendees and autonomous speech-to-text conversion, as well as comparable meeting transcription tools from Cisco and startup Voicera.
But AISense seeks to differentiate its service with competitive pricing. Premium subscription plans start at $10 per month ($5 a month for students) and include up to 100 hours of recording and advanced exporting options.
It’s also licensing its tech to third parties, like video conferencing company Zoom.
AISense has raised $13 million to date from Horizons Ventures, Bridgewater Associates, i-Hatch Ventures, MetaLab, Jay Markley, and others, plus seed investors Draper Associations, Slow Ventures, Danhua Capital, and 500 Startups.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
