Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages China is dominating tech IPOs on U.S. markets in 2018 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Chinese electric vehicle start-up Nio Inc. vehicle is parked in front of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) to celebrate the company’s initial public offering (IPO) in New York, U.S., September 12, 2018.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
China’s growing prowess across a wide range of tech sectors has triggered a love affair between Wall Street and the country’s startups. Through the first three quarters of 2018, Chinese companies have far outpaced their U.S. counterparts when it comes to IPOs on U.S. stock exchanges.
That trend continued in the third quarter, when 10 Chinese tech companies had initial public offerings of stock compared to 4 based in the U.S., according to Renaissance Capital’s IPO report.
Overall, that fueled a solid quarter for tech IPOs. Those 14 tech IPOs raised a total of $4 billion, about 5 times more than tech IPOs for the same period one year ago.
In the U.S., the IPO march was led by Eventbrite and SurveyMonkey, which both posted strong debuts. But they were overshadowed as a group by companies from China.
According to Renaissance, the 10 Chinese IPOs represent the largest number seen in U.S. markets since the second quarter of 2014.
The Chinese cohort was led by ecommerce app Pinduoduo, which raised $1.6 billion, and included electric and autonomous car startup Nio.
Altogether, there have been a total of 23 Chinese IPOs in the first nine months of this year, a number that tops all full-year totals going back to 2010.
With several more Chinese IPOs in the pipeline for Q4, Renaissance said it expects that country to come out far ahead for the year, even as U.S. companies are expected to pick up the pace this quarter.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
