Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Superhot VR on Oculus Quest hands-on — More room to maneuver in slo-mo shooter Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Facebook’s Oculus Quest wireless virtual reality headset will have 50 titles when it debuts in the spring of 2019. And one of those is Superhot VR , the slow-motion shooter game developed by Superhot Team for the Oculus Rift, HTC Vive, and PlayStation VR devices.
The original game was designed to be played while standing in place. The game is frozen in time until you move. And when you do, the red enemies start moving toward you in slow motion. You have to do something to get out of the way of their attacks and maneuver yourself into a position where you can attack them.
Above: Superhot VR It took a while to reset the Quest so that I could play it. But once I was in, the experience was immersive. I wore the VR headset in a large open space at the Oculus Connect 5 event in San Jose, California. My hands held the redesigned Oculus Touch hand controls. Once I saw the first red enemy, I sidestepped physically out of the way, triggering the enemy’s own movement. Then I took a swing — by swinging my arm in a physical motion — at his head and shattered him. I reached out to touch a triangle and I advanced to the next level.
In the next level, I had to pick up a gun and shoot at two different enemies coming from different directions. It was a puzzle that became more complex with each level. The Oculus Quest has no wires, so I was able to manuever freely in any direction. Once, I got too close to the wall and my minder had to protect me. But the Guardian sensor system also shows you a blue grid when you are too close to a wall.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! I enjoyed the freedom of playing Superhot VR on the Quest, as if it were meant to be played that way.
The $400 Oculus Quest will debut in the spring with titles like Vader Immortal: A VR Story Series.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
