Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Gremlin raises $18 million to expand ‘failure-as-a-service’ testing platform Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Gremlin cofounders Kolton Andrus (left) and Matthew Fornaciari Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Gremlin said today it has raised $18 million as the company expanded its product lineup to offer additional ways for companies to stress-test their applications.
The round was led by Redpoint Ventures.
Founded in 2016 by a pair of former engineers from Amazon and Netflix, the company has been designing ways for companies to test their systems by simulating moments when they are hit with surges in traffic to identify weaknesses.
As part of today’s announcement, the company also introduced a new service called Application Level Fault Injection, or ALFI. The service allows a company to deliberately cause part of its systems to fail to see how the rest of the system reacts, and ideally fix any weaknesses that are identified.
“The concept of purposefully injecting harm into systems is still new for many companies, but chaos engineering has been practiced at places like Amazon and Netflix for over a decade,” said Kolton Andrus, CEO and cofounder of Gremlin, in a statement. “We like to use the analogy of a flu shot, injecting small amounts of harm to build an immunity, in order to proactively avoid disasters. Now with ALFI, users will be able to bring this practice to serverless environments, and have much greater control within their applications.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! With more and more companies migrating their services online, customers have come to expect zero downtime and increased reliability. But the unwieldy patchwork of systems, software, and architectures can lead to vulnerabilities that are hard to spot through routine checks.
“With ALFI one of the first problems we wanted to address was improving the reliability and understanding of serverless providers like AWS Lambda and Azure Functions,” said Matthew Fornaciari, CTO and cofounder of Gremlin, in a statement.
Gremlin has now raised $23.75 million in total funding. Investors include Redpoint Ventures, Index Ventures, and Amplify Ventures.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
