Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Brian Barrett Security Security News This Week: Rudy Giuliani Butt-Dialed a Reporter (Twice!) Photograph: GENT SHKULLAKU/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save This week, Republicans stormed a sensitive compartmented information facility in a show of… something? Unclear. But they definitely created a national security issue by bringing their smartphones along with them and refusing to give them up. So, yes, that was the low point. But there were also highs! Microsoft has a new plan to protect firmware in Windows PCs from hacks, called “secured-core PCs.” A county in Georgia had a plan to use license plate detectors to reduce crime , but experts aren’t convinced it worked as advertised. And Russians have rapidly evolved their plans to execute so-called false flag hacks , making their attacks look like another sophisticated adversary pulled them off. Fancy Bear! They’re they mask-wearing Scooby-Doo villain of cyberwar.
Elsewhere, we took a look at why two-factor authentication isn’t always the answer —even though it’s still essential in certain situations.
 We talked you through making your social media posts private when you want them to be. And we detailed how a fleet of click fraud apps snuck past Apple’s vaunted App Store defenses.
We also explored technology’s role in the ongoing Hong Kong protests —on both sides—and ran through some quality password manager options.
Lastly, set aside some time this weekend to read this in-depth profile of secretary of state Mike Pompeo , who finds himself at—or at least near—the center of the increasingly alarming Ukraine investigation. It’s a doozy.
And there's more! Every Saturday we round up the security and privacy stories that we didn’t break or report on in-depth but which we think you should know about nonetheless. Click on the headlines to read them, and stay safe out there.
Please go read this NBC News story.
 Truly, you won't regret it. Because it relates the tale of how Rudy Giuliani—lawyer to an embattled president, unlikely proprietor of a cybersecurity firm —managed to butt-dial NBC News reporter Rich Shapiro not once, but twice in the last several weeks. The substance of the three-minute voicemails Giuliani inadvertently left seems inconclusive, although the most recent does include Giuliani's extremely relatable lament that "the problem is we need some money." And sure butt-dialing is a universal experience. But for someone in the middle of, let's conservatively say, several legally dubious narratives to take so little care with his outgoing communications is quite something! Especially given that this seems to be at least a semi-regular occurrence: X content This content can also be viewed on the site it originates from.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg Giuliani may be as divisive a character as exists in American politics today, but in the annals of butt-dialing, mark him down as a legend.
The latest entrant in the never-ending parade of exposed data appears to be Adobe Creative Cloud. A security researcher discovered 7.5 million records sitting in an Elastisearch database that was easily accessible online. Adobe reportedly secured the database the same day it was discovered, October 19. No payment information leaked out, and there's no indication that it had been compromised by bad actors. But it still included details like email accounts, what Adobe products in use, member IDs, and when the account was created.
Speaking of scourges, a phishing campaign has hit the Red Cross, UNICEF, the UN, and more. It's unclear who's behind the attack, but its goal appears to be breaking into Microsoft and Okta accounts. The scam set up a series of convincing fake websites, and would capture username and password data as entered in real-time. It's not unusual that these groups would be targeted, but the sophistication of the campaign is both impressive and worrying.
Dimitrios Vastakis was the branch chief of White House computer network defense until he resigned earlier this month. And when he did, Axios reports, he left behind a resignation letter that called out just how irresponsible the White House's attitude toward cybersecurity has become. Experienced cybersecurity professionals are being forced out, the letter says, which ultimately makes White House cybersecurity less safe. That's especially concerning given the apparent lack of care given by President Donald Trump in the first place, and the prior elimination of important strategic cybersecurity roles.
 In other words, don't be surprised if a big White House hack happens—or if it already has.
Pompeo was riding high— until the Ukraine mess exploded Maybe it’s not YouTube’s algorithm that radicalizes people The untold story of Olympic Destroyer, the most deceptive hack in history Massive, AI-powered robots are 3D-printing entire rockets USB-C has finally come into its own 👁 Prepare for the deepfake era of video ; plus, check out the latest news on AI 🏃🏽‍♀️ Want the best tools to get healthy? Check out our Gear team’s picks for the best fitness trackers , running gear (including shoes and socks ), and best headphones.
Executive Editor, News X Topics security roundup phishing data Lily Hay Newman Scott Gilbertson Lily Hay Newman David Gilbert Vittoria Elliott Matt Burgess David Gilbert Dell Cameron Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
