Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Black Desert Online’s Remastered campaign brings in a huge surge of players Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Black Desert thrives on its skill-based combat.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Pearl Abyss and Kakao Games said that Black Desert Online has seen a surge of returning and new users from their Remastered campaign in the past week. Black Desert Online returning users are up 103.6 percent in the past week, and new players are up 24.2 percent in the North American and European markets. That’s a big result for a game that originally launched in 2014, after four years of development at Seoul, South Korea -based Pearl Abyss.
Black Desert Online debuted in North America and Europe in 2016, and the Remastered version of the fantasy massively multiplayer online role-playing game debuted last week with better visuals and a new orchestral score. Kakao Games serves as the publisher in major regions in Asia, Europe and the U.S., while others handle South America and Russia. It’s another sign of how time-consuming MMORPGs, like World of Warcraft and its launch-day record for its Battle for Azeroth expansion, continue to do well in the age of mobile games and nanosecond attention spans.
“Pearl Abyss has done a fantastic job on Black Desert Remastered,” said Minsung Kim, CEO of Kakao Games Europe, in a statement. “The game was already had the best in-game visuals, but with Black Desert Remastered, the developers have really pushed the envelope. It is no wonder that so many players are returning to the game.” Above: Black Desert Online Earlier this year, the companies said that Black Desert Online had 3 million players in North America and Europe, but they didn’t say this week how many the game now has. Throughout its history, Black Desert Online has had 9.5 million players in 150 countries on the PC.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! “We are ecstatic after seeing that our hard work on Black Desert Remastered has been so positively perceived by the community at large. The heart-warming reactions have definitely been a morale booster. We want to thank our players all over the world for playing our game,” said Jae Hee Kim, executive producer at Pearl Abyss, in a statement. “We are highly motivated to keep the game current and up-to-date by continuing to develop exciting new content while striving for continuous improvements and optimizations.” Pearl Abyss is currently working on a previously announced Drieghan expansion, which is expected to arrive to the Western markets later this year. Mobile and console versions are expected to launch worldwide this year.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
