Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Official iPhone XS and Apple Watch 4 images leak ahead of Apple event Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn iPhone XS, revealed.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Only hours after Apple announced its September 12 media event, a leak of official images and details at 9to5Mac has confirmed the naming conventions and looks for Apple’s flagship iPhones: the 5.8-inch and 6.5-inch iPhone XS. Another leak has confirmed a larger-screened, redesigned Apple Watch Series 4, which similarly has been rumored for months.
As previously reported , the sequel to the iPhone X will indeed carry the iPhone XS name, and will apparently drop the “Plus” descriptor for the larger model. Moreover, a leaked image confirms a new gold color for the flagship iPhone, which previously was available solely in black/space gray and white/silver versions.
Each version of the iPhone XS is expected to include an OLED screen, a dual-lensed rear camera, and an Apple A12 processor that’s faster and more power efficient than the A11 inside last year’s iPhone X. While the smaller iPhone XS will look virtually identical to the iPhone X, the larger one will include a 6.5-inch screen — the largest yet on an iPhone — with the ability to split into two panes when used in widescreen orientation.
Above: The Apple Watch Series 4, revealed.
As had been rumored, the Apple Watch Series 4 features a larger screen, reducing the bezels around the prior display, which enables its clock face to display even more information. Eight complications — including the ability to tap on sub-apps such as weather, music, activity, and calendar — are featured, with what appears to be a “UVI” reading, giving the wearer a quick Ultraviolet Index display for outdoor use.
Several of the complications go beyond what’s shown on current Apple Watch displays. The current temperature is shown alongside a sliding meter with the day’s highs and lows, an upcoming appointment is wrapped around a circle to fit more text on the screen, and a timer has a completion bar alongside a digital countdown. Clearly, quite a few software changes are in store for watchOS 5 on the new devices.
A few hardware changes are obvious, as well. The image reveals a new hole between the Digital Crown and side button, which could either be a microphone or a speaker hole. Slight differences between the prior Crown and button design are also evident in the new model, including what appears to be a more subtle indicator on the LTE cellular version — a red ring rather than a fully red circle.
Reliable reports have suggested that the Apple Watch Series 4 will include improved battery performance and health tracking capabilities, as well as 15 percent larger screens in both the 38mm and 42mm models. Despite significant internal changes, the new watches are expected to preserve compatibility with prior Apple Watch bands.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
