Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Alexa voice control is coming to Toshiba televisions Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Starting next year, many of Toshiba’s OLED, 4K, and Full HD Smart Range televisions will respond to Alexa voice control, the company announced today. Alexa in Toshiba televisions will be able to do things like change the channel or volume, deliver movie recommendations, read the news, or launch more than 45,000 Alexa skills.
Toshiba also unveiled its first-ever Android TV offering today with Google Assistant voice control. The 55-inch device will be able to do similar things as Alexa in that it can control smart home devices, launch apps, search for movies, or change the volume. Google Assistant voice control for Android TVs first became available last fall.
Like JBL, Harman Kardon, and many other manufacturers, Toshiba has chosen to sell appliances with voice control from both Alexa and Google Assistant.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Control of televisions and content like music and videos have been key to the adoption of AI assistants like Alexa and Google Assistant. That’s part of the reason why Amazon and Google have each tried to brand its assistant as the second coming of the television remote.
Speaking of the TV remote, last month Toshiba introduced Amazon Dash Replenishment for its televisions, so when the batteries die in your remote control, replacements can be automatically sent to you by Amazon.
Toshiba also announced today the debut of a series of new televisions, such as its first-ever 8K prototype for European customers, a bezel-free 65-inch 4K TV and 65-inch 4K television that’s only 2.5 millimeters thin.
Above: Toshiba’s 65-inch 8K prototype The news was announced today a day ahead of the start of IFA, a consumer electronics conference scheduled to begin Friday in Berlin.
Several bits of smart assistant integration news have been made ahead of IFA, including Alexa and Google Assistant smart speakers from Marshall , Alexa voice control for Sony soundbars and headphones, and the introduction of Bose’s first smart speaker with Alexa voice control.
Google also announced today that its Assistant is now able to speak two languages at once , and that Home Max speakers will go on sale in more European nations like the United Kingdom and Germany.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
