Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Lucah: Born of a Dream unleashes its nightmares August 21 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Lucah: Born of a Dream is an action role-playing game that’s set in a hellish world scratched from scraps of neon and wriggling darkness. It’s indie developer Colin Horgan’s latest title, and it will launch on PC on August 21.
Under the moniker Melessthanthree , Horgan has developed a few short games like the shooter Together We Can End This All and the adventure game Tatakai. He successfully ran a Kickstarter campaign for Lucah in 2017, and he has released a few side games, Sacrament I and Sacrament IV, to complement it. Lucah has personal roots, dealing with themes of guilt and self-discovery. The titular character confronts their demons made manifest, fighting against their fate as a Marked Child. Though the game has a narrative, its core is its battle system, which features a frenetic blend of melee and range attacks which players can remix through the Paradigm system. The fights are deliberately punishing, though the game’s difficulty level is adjustable.
“Every in-game failure is really another opportunity to grow, because Lucah will always get back up,” said Horgan in a previous interview with GamesBeat.
 “By the end of the game, I want the player to grow with Lucah and gain that confidence that comes with self-acceptance, because they were able to survive and triumph alongside Lucah and learn to love themselves for who they are, whatever that means to them.” To develop Lucah, Horgan teamed up with sound designer and composer Nicolo Telesca; Brianna Lei, who developed the adorable visual novel Butterfly Soup ; and Team OK’s Kevin Wong, who was project lead on the stylish multiplayer game Chambara.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
