Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages RR Donnelley reveals role as Apple’s photo printer, debuts Motif plug-in Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Motif from RR Donnelley gives Mac users the ability to print Apple-quality photo books -- a service Apple recently announced it was discontinuing.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
When Apple announced plans to discontinue its photo printing service, it guided users to several third-party alternatives. But one option has an advantage over the rest: Top commercial printer RR Donnelley has revealed itself as Apple’s longtime provider of photo printing services and released an app called Motif that lets macOS Photos users continue to purchase its products.
In an email to VentureBeat, an RR Donnelley representative noted that the company has printed Apple’s photo books since 2005 — a detail that was rumored within the industry but unconfirmed during the contract with Apple. Donnelley has been the world’s largest commercial printer for years, and its Consolidated Graphics (CGX) division was said to be responsible for Apple’s printed products.
Above: Motif runs inside Photos for macOS and includes support for macOS Mojave.
As a plug-in extension for Apple’s Photos app, Motif enables Mac users to create printed photo books, calendars, and cards similar to the ones Apple historically offered. In addition to auto-flowing and automatically laying out photo books, Motif’s intuitive user interface lets users select individual photos, create size-adjusted layouts, and modify text directly on the printable pages. It also automatically flags both duplicates and images that won’t print well so you can avoid making costly mistakes.
Donnelley cites its Apple-approved printing quality as a major asset. “In a field where low quality runs rampant,” the company said, “Motif uses sustainable and durable materials that are built to stand the test of time.” Books start at $9.99 for an 8-by-6-inch satin softcover and climb to $49.99 for a 13-by-10 deluxe hardcover, while calendars are $19.99, flat cards are 99 cents each, and folded cards start at $1.49. The company says it will reprint or refund any product that isn’t to your complete satisfaction.
Motif is available now as a free download from the Mac App Store. It’s currently compatible with macOS High Sierra but may not work fully with the beta version of macOS Mojave.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
