Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Zillow can now field applicants and collect rent Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Stan Humphries, Zillow's chief analytics officer, speaks at VB Summit 2017 in Berkeley, California on October 24, 2017.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Zillow Group , the company behind Zillow, Trulia, and StreetEasy, wants to ease the burden of hunting for properties and paying rent on time.
It announced a new service today that allows landlords to accept applications and rent payments through Zillow’s existing Zillow Rental Manager.
 Would-be renters pay $29 for a home or apartment application with credit, eviction history, and background checks powered by Experian and Checkr. Once they’ve secured the place, they have the option of setting up automatic rent payments using whichever method they please, including debit and check.
The new service is free for landlords, with the exception of a small processing fee on credit and debit card transactions (ACH is free).
“Renters tell us they want the entire rental process to happen online, from search to application to payment,” Zillow president Jeremy Wacksman said in a statement. “However, most landlords don’t have the resources to offer these services. We’re excited to provide the technology to help renters and landlords have a better experience.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Seattle-based Zillow has spent much of its 14-year history as a marketplace company focused on real estate advertising and data, but it’s recently pivoted toward investing and analytics in an effort to head off competitors such as Opendoor and Offerpad. In May 2017, Zillow launched Instant Offers, a feature that connects homeowners to offers from investors and comparative market analysis from local real estate agents. In April of that year, the company announced it would begin buying and selling homes.
Today, Zillow’s bread and butter is sales leads, which it passes to agents who work for brokers — like Coldwell Banker or Re/Max — to provide marketing, insurance, and sales support in exchange for a cut of their commission. Agents spend up to $60,000 a year buying leads from Zillow.
More than 3 out of 4 home shoppers start their search with Zillow, the company said, and 35 million renters visit Zillow and its affiliate websites and apps each month.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
