Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages In Silicon Valley, 59% of tech workers can’t afford homes Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Team Blind found 59 percent of tech workers can't afford homes.
In Silicon Valley, home prices are out of control and are unaffordable even for tech workers, according to a survey by Team Blind , which operates an anonymous online community for workplaces. The survey found that 59 percent of tech workers — including many at 13 major tech companies — said they cannot afford to buy a house in the San Francisco Bay Area.
Everybody knows that Silicon Valley is an expensive place to live, but the survey shows that even those who logically ought to be able to afford a home cannot do so. The California Association of Realtors reported a house in San Francisco now runs over $1.5 million on average and that only 12 percent of San Francisco households were able to afford a median-priced single family home at the end of 2017.
In nearby San Mateo County, 14 percent of households could afford similarly priced homes in the area. That number was 15 percent in Santa Clara County, home of Silicon Valley. For context, the realtor group said that the statewide affordability rating was 29 percent for single family homes and 56 percent nationwide in the fourth quarter of 2017.
Above: Map of Silicon Valley Even with an above average compensation that can total over $300,000 annually, tech workers said it’s difficult to own a home in the Bay Area. According to a Bay Area council survey, 46 percent of residents plan to leave the area soon. Team Blind ran a survey from July 24 to July 28 and gathered more than 2,326 responses.
Last week, Team Blind said that 61 percent of tech workers want more money because they believe they’re underpaid. Yet the trend on Wall Street and in tech companies is to announce big stock buybacks, which may be starving the economy , according to a recent story in the Atlantic.
Over 50 percent of surveyed employees at all 13 companies say they can’t afford to buy a house. Cisco has the highest percentage (72.07 percent) of employees who say they can’t buy a house, followed by eBay (70.63 percent).
Even the majority of surveyed Facebook and Google employees are struggling to own a home, but the two companies rank lowest in terms of workers who say they can’t afford to buy a house.
“It’s not a surprise then that residents are moving away to more affordable cities,” Team Blind said. “People have been leaving the area in record numbers since early this year, causing a shortage of U-Haul trucks. With an increase in demand and shortage in supply, prices for moving vehicles soared up to $2,000.
 Living in the Bay Area is costly, but apparently so is leaving it.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
