Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Exclusive Dremio raises $30 million from Cisco Investments and others to streamline data management Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Demio logo.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Managing and processing data is hard work, especially for businesses with unwieldy databases. San Francisco-based startup Dremio offers tools that help streamline and curate that data, and its efforts haven’t gone unnoticed.
The self-described “data-as-a-service” company today announced an investment from Cisco Investments, bringing its latest round of funding to $30 million and the total amount raised to $45 million. This follows on the heels of two previous funding rounds — one in January led by Norwest Venture Partners, Lightspeed Venture Partners, and Redpoint Partners, and another in late 2015.
“When we make any investment, we gain insight into new markets and offer our customers visibility into best-in-class innovation,” Rob Salvagno, a spokesperson for Cisco Investments, said in an emailed statement. “Dremio’s initial traction has been very promising … [and it] also is applicable to Cisco’s own internal movement towards digital transformation.” Dremio’s full-stack virtualization toolkit connects, analyzes, and processes data in part with so-called Data Reflections, which accelerate database queries without replicating data. Its platform bridges the gaps between relational databases, Hadoop, NoSQL, ElasticSearch, and other data stores, connecting to business intelligence software as if it were a primary data source and querying it via SQL.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Crucially, it maintains a catalog of data sources, physical and virtual datasets, and datasets’ lineage, making it easy to search and find datasets and see how data are being transformed. Tomer Shiran, cofounder and CEO of Dremio, described it as “Google Docs for datasets.” Above: A few of the data sources Dremio’s platform supports.
“We make data accessible to employees,” Shiran told VentureBeat in a phone interview. “It’s available to anyone who has permission to access it.” To that end, Dremio contributes to projects like Parquet, Calcite, and Gandiva, an Apache-licensed open source execution kernel for evaluating and compiling expressions on Apache Arrow. And it offers Dremio 2.0, a suite of analytics and data processing tools optimized for enterprise.
Dremio 2.0 consists of the aforementioned Data Reflections technology, which automatically detects schemas, supports cloud data lakes in Amazon S3 and other cloud storage providers, and leverages Apache Arrow to speed up performance by a factor of a thousand. But it also builds in features like automatic failover, which automatically selects new nodes in the event of node and instance cluster failures, and dynamic granular access, which provides programmatic security controls through integration with Kerberos, LDAP, and other centralized providers.
Artificial intelligence is a core pillar of Dremio’s product lineup, Shiran said. The Dremio Learning Engine — which launched alongside Dremio 2.0 earlier this year — uses machine learning to recommend complementary datasets to users, adapt data catalogs automatically in response to changes in schema change and query execution, and intelligently cache and index metadata.
“We see [AI] as an opportunity to make companies’ experience with data as streamlined as it is in our personal lives,” Shiran said.
Dremio’s platform, which runs in the cloud via Kubernetes or in a Hadoop cluster, is available in an open source Community edition as well as a commercial Enterprise edition. (Subscription pricing scales based on the number of nodes to which Dremio is deployed — it can support more than 1,000.) The company, which has more than 70 employees, boasts customers in over 80 countries, including large enterprises like Daimler, Fred Hutch, Idio, Intel, OVH, Royal Caribbean, TransUnion, and UBS.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
