Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VR hit Beat Saber is getting a multiplayer update Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Beat Saber on PSVR.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Music-based rhythm games are great. Some of my favorite gaming memories involve being huddled around plastic guitars and drum sets in Rock Band or pounding on a DDR dance pad with friends. What those games have in common that’s missing from Beat Saber though, is multiplayer. Hopefully that won’t be the case for much longer.
According to a tweet today from the official Beat Saber account , the developers are working with a dedicated member of the community to add actual multiplayer support to the game. Currently there is a Party Mode which simply supports passing the headset and controllers around, but that’s not “real” multiplayer.
As for what form the support will take, we don’t really have any idea. Perhaps it will be a competitive mode in which two people play the same song at the same time and try to get a higher score, or perhaps it will be more collaborative where you trade off playing parts of the same beat map.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Between the core game’s excellent pacing and the seemingly endless stream of user-generated content, it’s already taking the VR world by storm. It’s also just a ton of fun to livestream.
This story originally appeared on Uploadvr.com.
 Copyright 2018 GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
