Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Listen to Waluigi’s Super Smash Bros. Ultimate lament and bring a tissue Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Waluigi is not playable in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate.
 Instead, he is once again an Assist Trophy, the Smash Bros. equivalent of a cameo appearance. It caused the Washington Post to say that “Waluigi was robbed and humiliated by Nintendo,” which I’m sure caught the attention of the Pulitzer Prize committee.
Fans of Luigi’s lanky nemesis are upset, but what about the man himself? Well, you can listen to his lament above.
The song comes from Matthew Taranto, whose webcomic Brawl in the Family did a lot to help popularize the character. He’s created other Waluigi song parodies before, including the new holiday classic Carol of the Waa.
We may not be able to destroy Mario, Mega Man, and Link as Waluigi in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, but maybe this song can help us come to terms with out grief.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Waa.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
