Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Waymo orders 62,000 Fiat Chrysler minivans for its upcoming autonomous taxi service Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
(Reuters) — Fiat Chrysler will add up to 62,000 more cars to Alphabet’s autonomous driving unit Waymo, the companies said on Thursday, as part of Waymo’s plan to roll out a robotaxi service in the U.S. later this year.
The announcement comes on the day when Japan’s SoftBank Group Corp said it would invest $2.25 billion in General Motors Co’s self-driving unit.
Large tech companies, established automakers and well-funded startups including Uber Technologies Inc [UBER.UL] and Tesla Inc are all stepping up efforts to gain pole position in the self-driving cars market, which is expected to carry the automobiles industry into the next era.
“We’re excited to deepen our relationship with FCA that will support the launch of our driverless service and explore future products that support Waymo’s mission,” Waymo Chief Executive Officer John Krafcik said in a statement.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Fiat Chrysler (FCA), which already has a partnership with Waymo, will add Chrysler Pacifica Hybrid minivans to Waymo’s existing fleet, the companies said on Thursday. Delivery of the cars is expected to begin in late 2018.
The companies are also in early discussions about using Waymo’s technology in FCA cars to be sold in retail.
Alphabet’s self-driving unit said in March it will also add up to 20,000 Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc [TAMOJL.UL] electric vehicles to its upcoming autonomous fleet.
Waymo, which says it has self-driven 6 million miles on public roads, said on Thursday it was on track to launch the world’s first self-driving transportation service later this year, which will allow passengers to use Waymo’s app to request a vehicle.
The company has plans to roll out a ride service for the public in the Phoenix, Arizona area in coming months , with plans to later launch it more widely.
FCA, which has delivered 600 Pacifica Hybrid minivans to Waymo till date, first announced its partnership with the company in May 2016.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
