Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Warhammer: Vermintide 2 gives you more monsters to kill and fancy hats Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
One of the breakout hits in the first half 2018 is Warhammer: Vermintide 2 , selling more than 1 million copies. Now, developer Fatshark is rewarding fans with an update that will introduce more reasons to come back to the cooperative multiplayer shooter set in the fantasy Warhammer universe.
This patch is going out today, and it introduces a handful of new elements. Highlights here include quests and challenges that refresh every day. Fatshark is also introducing dozens of new hats and skins for players to customize the look of their characters.
“Vermintide 2 already challenges the players, but now we amp it up with daily challenges and quests.” Fatshark designer Mats Andersson said. “The Content Update will bring exclusive skins, portrait frames and cosmetics for heroes who rise to the challenge.” Vermintide 2 is out now on Steam , and it is coming to PlayStation 4 and Xbox One soon as well. Fatshark is also prepping Vermintide 2 to integrate with user mods and Steam Workshop support.
It published a blog today about using mods, which describes the process of subscribing (the term for installing a mod) through the Workshop.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Mod creators can download the official development kit for the game right now, though. It is available under the Tools tab when you right click on Vermintide 2 in your Steam library. This kit includes tutorials and other instructions for creating content for the game and releasing it through the Workshop.
Fatshark is trying to turn Vermintide 2 into a game that people will want to return to for months or even years. Having mods along with regular content updates could help it accomplish just that.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
