Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Assassin’s Creed: Odyssey heads to Greece (update: Ubisoft confirms) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Welcome to Sparta, Bayek! Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Guessing the setting of the next Assassin’s Creed adventure is a honored tradition for fans at this point, and it looks like the winners this time around are anyone who put their bets on Greece — that is, if we can believe merchandise that is appearing online today.
French website Jeux Video Live has uncovered a key chain with the name Assassin’s Creed: Odyssey that features the head of a spartan warrior. Jeux Video claims it received the image of the key chain from a source that says Odyssey will follow Bayek, hero in Assassin’s Creed: Origins, as he travels to ancient Greece — although that is unconfirmed.
Ubisoft confirmed the name in a Tweet this evening that references the Hollywood action film 300 that tells the story of a group of Spartans fighting off an invasion.
See you at E3! pic.twitter.com/03NTPhCkCf — Assassin's Creed (@assassinscreed) May 31, 2018 As always, Assassin’s Creed is the subject of a lot of rumors. Details of the last several games have leaked before their official reveal, and Odyssey may not buck that tradition. The rumors for this entry in the open-world action adventure series is that Ubisoft wants to stick with Bayek for multiple games, as it did with Ezio in Assassin’s Creed II, Brotherhood, and Revelations.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Other rumors, Kotaku reports , claim that Assassin’s Creed: Odyssey will not take a full year off, like the break between Syndicate and Origins. Instead, it should launch before the end of the publisher’s current fiscal year, which wraps up March 31, 2019. Ubisoft is also considering how it can continue to grow the series after the successful adoption of more role-playing elements in Origins. That could manifest as dialogue trees and more control over who you play.
It’s worth pointing out that reports are conflicting about whether you play as Bayek, his wife, Aya, or new characters altogether.
Ubisoft previously promised surprises for E3, and this is likely one of those. So expect more from the game when the Electronic Entertainment Expo pre-show media briefings get under way in less than two weeks.
Updated at 4:37 p.m. Pacific time with the tweet from the Assassin’s Creed account.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
