Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Nintendo Switch gets Arena of Valor closed beta test this summer Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Arena of Valor in action.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Tencent still hasn’t announced when its hit mobile game Arena of Valor will arrive on the Nintendo Switch, but it will be hosting a closed beta test this summer for players in North America and Europe. It will last two weeks starting on a to-be-determined date, and players can enter a raffle for a key by filling out a survey.
This is the second closed beta for the immensely popular multiplayer online battle arena, which ran a one-day session in January for European players. Arena of Valor, known as Honor of Kings in Asia, arrived in North and South America in December on iOS and Android devices. The game is a global juggernaut, boasting over 160 million registered users and generating $1.9 billion in 2017.
Tencent already has a foot in the esports world. It owns a big chunk of Riot Games, developer of League of Legends , and Epic Games, which recently announced a $100 million prize pool for upcoming competitions for its battle royale sensation Fortnite. And it seems like Arena of Valor is getting the same treatment; in February, the Chinese tech giant announced that it’s launching the Arena of Valor World Cup tournament in North America. It already got a big vote of confidence from the esports team Immortals, which has launched a team to play the MOBA competitively.
Arena of Valor has already found extraordinary success on mobile, and arriving on a console will help it reach even more players.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
