Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Arm beefs up processors and graphics for Windows laptops Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Rene Haas, EVP and president of the IP Products Group at Arm.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Chip maker Arm is announcing a series of graphics and processor improvements to its central processing units (CPUs) and graphics processing units (GPUs) for Windows laptops.
Rene Haas , president of the IP Products Group division at the Cambridge, England-based company, said in a blog post that the new Arm Cortex-A76 CPU will have 35 percent better performance from a year ago for productivity applications.
The new Arm Mali-G76 GPU, he wrote, will enable untethered gaming and on-device machine learning (ML) with 30 percent higher efficiency and performance over previous generations.
Above: Arm’s going for the full spectrum of computing.
And the Arm Mali-V76 VPU will enable UltraHD 8K viewing experiences across more devices.
“Over the last five years, we’ve seen CPU performance on smartphones increase an average of 20-plus percent every year without compromising battery life,” Haas wrote. “However, the same cannot be said for laptops reliant on other architectures, which have struggled to adapt to a slowing Moore’s Law over the last few years, delivering annual performance gains averaging only single-digit percentages while failing to enable any significant increases in battery life.” He added, “This cadence of significant smartphone performance efficiency increases enabled by Arm did not go unnoticed by the Windows laptop ecosystem which now have integrated Arm-based SoCs from Qualcomm into their initial Always-Connected PC offerings. These Arm-based laptops are already paying off with an unprecedented 20-plus hours of battery life and steadily improving performance thanks to ongoing OS and application optimizations.” Arm’s new designs will help close any perceived gap between its processor designs and the incumbents (Intel and Advanced Micro Devices), Haas said.
“Our new client IP platform solution for 2019 has generated a level of excitement within our ecosystem which I have never seen during my 5-plus years at Arm thanks to the possibilities it offers for increased productivity, immersive AR/VR and gaming, AI/ML, and UHD 8K viewing experiences on more devices,” Haas wrote.
Above: Arm is making its chips faster for Windows laptops.
The new Arm Cortex-A76 CPU, based on DynamIQ technology, delivers laptop-class performance while maintaining the power efficiency of a smartphone, he wrote.
“We’ve already seen the success of the recently launched Arm-based Windows 10 PCs, delivering unimaginable 20-plus hours of battery life, a true LTE connected PC, and a trusted Windows app ecosystem,” Haas said. “Building on that momentum, the new Cortex-A76 CPU brings choice and flexibility to consumers from a trusted architecture, delivering the 35 percent year-over-year performance gain along with 40 percent improved efficiency.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
