Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Meteorites incoming: Fortnite is down overnight for Season 4 update Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn I'm going to get in. I've got a good feeling! Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
A meteor is about to fall from the sky and crash into Fortnite: Battle Royale — a moderately successful last-player-standing shooter — and it is going to bring Season 4 with it. Epic Games confirmed today that Season 4 of its Fortnite add-on content begins May 1, and that means Fortnite will have to go offline for a period overnight.
Epic is beginning maintenance on Fortnite’s servers at 4 a.m. Eastern. It did not say how long the update process would take, but if you are having troubles getting connected in the morning, that is probably why.
https://twitter.com/FortniteGame/status/991013165885509633 The beginning of Season 4 should also mark the end of the meteor saga for Fortnite. Last month, a comet-like object began appearing in the skies over the map. Players quickly started to speculate that Epic was planning to demolish the central town of Tilted Towers using an asteroid collision. That may not come to pass, but it seems inevitable now that a meteorite is going to change the game in some way.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Last week, tiny meteorites began smashing into the map and causing explosions during matches. At the same time, Epic began teasing Season 4 with artwork that suggested aliens or superheroes. Now, that teasing has reached its zenith.
Brace for impact! Witness Season 4 tomorrow.
pic.twitter.com/LVG3mO6vmK — Fortnite (@FortniteGame) April 30, 2018 In the latest promotional image for Season 4, Epic has a crew standing on craggy rock. It’s difficult to see if they are wearing anything new, but the image is definitely suggesting that the meteorite impact could introduce a lot of new items into the game.
As for the fate of Tilted Towers, we still don’t know. Garlic Jim, my local purveyor of pizza pies, is already mourning its loss. But we’ll just have to see where the big space rock lands.
Me: Let's get away from games for a bit. Let's get out of the house. Walk to Starbucks or something.
Also me: God dammit.
pic.twitter.com/oumX8C0bxG — Jeffrey Grubb (@JeffGrubb) April 27, 2018 As you have probably guessed, the imminent release of Season 4 means that today, April 30, is the last day of Season 3. So if you were only a few objectives away from finishing a challenge or two, you still have time. But you better get into the battle royale before those servers go offline.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
