Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Games and politics mix at ESA-sponsored White House Correspondents’ Dinner parties Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn CNN's Political Hangover brunch on Sunday.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The Washington political scene just finished a long weekend of partying following the annual White House Correspondents’ Dinner on Saturday, and the Entertainment Software Association trade group was an active participant in many of the events surrounding the WHCD. It’s the ESA’s job to build relationships with policymakers, and it did that by providing some interactive entertainment for guests at two different parties.
On Thursday, the ESA co-hosted the Great American White House Correspondents’ Dinner Party with Tucker Carlson’s conservative news blog The Daily Caller, the Conservative Partnership Institute, and other trade groups. On Sunday morning, the ESA had a hand in throwing CNN’s Political Hangover brunch as well.
The ESA had game stations set up at both events, according to Washington news blog The Hill.
 At the CNN event, the trade group even handed out “classic Mario games” and set up a virtual reality station for attendees.
I reached out to the ESA for an official comment on these events, and it declined to make a statement.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Above: Chris Cillizza pulling a donut from the foundation of a donut pyramid at CNN’s brunch party.
Attendees at the CNN event included a number of broadcast personalities from the network including anchor Jake Tapper and commentator Chris Cillizza. Also in the crowd was Michael Avenatti, lawyer for porn star Stormy Daniels, and Democratic House leader Nancy Pelosi.
It’s important to know that the ESA has done these kinds of Washington-insider parties for years. In 2014, it sponsored a party for news magazine Capitol File.
 So this isn’t a new trend.
Above: Actor Robin Wright at the 2014 Capitol File/ESA WCHD party.
But this is a demonstration of ESA’s mission in action. The trade group’s members include Activision, Electronic Arts, Sony, and Nintendo, and these companies don’t want sudden regulations to pop up that could eat into their revenues or profits. By showing up for WHCD parties, the ESA leadership could ensure that it can give the right information to the right people to protect the interests of its industry.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
