Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages The Hive raises $26.5 million fund for enterprise AI startups Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
The Hive , a venture-backed accelerator for early-stage startups, today announced it has raised a $26.5 million fund to launch enterprise AI startups.
The round will be used to fund seven or more companies with up to $2 million in seed funding, cofounder and managing director T. M. Ravi told VentureBeat in a phone interview.
The Hive differentiates itself from other venture capital-backed startup accelerators by acting as co-creators with startups from day zero, Ravi said.
“We see AI driving the autonomous enterprise, and so all of our companies are thematically aligned with that big vision,” Ravi said. “ As AI grows in maturity, our opportunity is to create startups that drive business process automation [and] business process transformation, leverage chatbots to automate interaction with people, and [drive] overall cognitive enterprise applications. The time is right for this change in the enterprise.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Capital raised for the fund comes from Verizon Ventures, GE, Rockwell Automation, and March Capital Partners, among other participants. Investors in the fund will also a play a role in the co-creation of startups.
“I think they have all come around to the point of view that if they don’t innovate they’re going to die, and so corporations are collaborating with us at every phase; they’re co-creating companies with us,” he said.
With $30 million raised to date, this is The Hive’s third fund for startups since the company first began in 2012. Among 24 investments, six led to acquisitions, including Nurego and Perspica, ML analytics companies acquired last year by GE Digital and Cisco, respectively.
The Hive has nine employees and is based in Palo Alto, California.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
