Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages HyperX Alloy Elite’s RGB update means LED lovers have a new option Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn HyperX Alloy Elite with RGB lighting.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
I reviewed the HyperX Alloy Elite mechanical gaming keyboard in July , and now Kingston’s gaming brand has released an updated version of the device with RGB LED lighting. This is the first HyperX product to implement programmable LEDs and the first to support its NGenuity software. After trying out the Alloy Elite RGB for a couple of weeks, and seeing that HyperX is integrating RGB LEDs into its other products, I think you have another real alternative to Logitech, Razer, or Sound BlasterX when it comes to your PC lighting.
The trend toward including programmable RGB LEDs in every PC product including keyboards, mice, speakers, headsets, and even monitors has an obvious motive: players wants all of their hardware to match and sync, so they may tend to buy all of their devices from the same company.
HyperX has done just fine so far selling its headsets and keyboards on the merits of their performance and engineering.
They are well made and a great value , but building a PC is like building anything else. When you’re done, you might want to show your pretty rig off to everyone. RGB can help add a visual oomph to a system that is hiding its most expensive components in a metal-and-glass case.
So now HyperX is getting into this space, and that means the vane among us can jump onto its lighting platform with the Alloy Elite RGB and then add in the mice and other products as they roll out.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! And the Alloy Elite is still a great keyboard. It has Cherry MX switches, media controls and a nice volume bar, and HyperX’s build quality. You can read my full review here.
 The difference with this updated model is that if you want to use it, it doesn’t have to stick out from the rest of your devices.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
