Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon’s Alexa can now record shows on DirecTV and TiVo Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Voice assistants like Amazon's Alexa may become the center of home entertainment.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Amazon today announced updates to Alexa’s Video Skills API, which will soon allow users of TiVo, DirectTV, DISH, and Verizon television services to record their favorite shows using their voice on an Alexa-enabled device. This means a user will be able to say “Alexa, record the Warriors game” to start a DVR recording.
The update announced today for the API that gives Alexa control of video content will let customers navigate to often-used destinations, like a show guide, home screen, or DVR menu. Users will also be able to ask for TV apps like Prime Video by name or say “Alexa, pause” to stop play.
Tech giants making AI assistants are vying for people’s attention on many fronts. Amazon wants to enter your workplace and your car , but the main battlefront today still seems to be the home, and there the company has made pitches to enter virtually every room. Amazon now has a Wand with Alexa that sticks to your fridge. One of the first arguments made in favor of an Echo Show at its debut last summer was that it can play you DIY cooking videos.
 When the Echo Spot debuted, it was pitched as the replacement for your alarm clock.
The fight for content control in any room with a television is another battleground, and a fairly crowded one at that.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Beyond the voice control Alexa can provide for devices from companies like TiVo, Alexa voice control for Fire TV sticks was first made available last August and can be used to play shows by title, channel, or genre. Like Alexa’s Fire TV control, Google Assistant can control Chromecast, and unlike Fire TV, it has a YouTube app. Due to a spat between Amazon and Google last year over Amazon’s refusal to sell Nest smart home devices on its marketplace , YouTube access for Fire TV was revoked.
For Samsung, Bixby control is coming to its Smart TVs later this year , while Microsoft brought Cortana to the Xbox One dashboard in 2016.
 Xfinity introduced voice control for its remote controls in 2015.
 Some Xfinity DVR scheduling abilities were recently lost due to a lost 2017 court battle with TiVo parent company Rovi Corp.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
