Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Final Fantasy XV for PC is getting ridiculous Sims 4 outfits Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Final Fantasy and The Sims : These aren’t two franchises you usually expect to see in the same sentence. But they’re coming together in an unusual way.
Sqaure Enix announced today that the PC version of the role-playing game Final Fantasy XV will give players a special outfit based on EA’s life-simulation game The Sims 4. Final Fantasy XV came out for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in 2016, but the Windows version is releasing on March 6. The Sims 4 outfit is available to anyone who buys the Windows Edition before May 1. Incentives like that can help drive sales. It also marks a rare partnership between two publisher, Square Enix and EA, that are usually rivals.
Sure, it’s all a bit silly, but this isn’t even the first odd outfit Square Enix has announced for Final Fantasy XV on PC. Players can also get a Half-Life costume if they buy the Windows Edition before May 1.
Above: This is … Final Fantasy? Final Fantasy isn’t known for being a PC franchise. Most of its games launch for consoles first, with PC ports coming years (or even decades) later. But these promotions with popular PC gaming franchises could help attract more PC gamers.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! They could also just attract people who love silly crossovers, like me.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
