Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Tobii Eye Tracker’s accuracy frightens me Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Tobii Eyetracker.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
I’ve had a Tobii Eye Tracker sitting among a pile of PC peripherals that I want to cover or give away for a year now. I hate when this happens, but time and sanity is limited. But something came over me this week, and I finally did the work to plug in the eye-tracking device and set it up … and now I’m scared.
The Tobii Eye Tracker 4C is a $150 USB bar-shaped device that sits beneath your monitor. Using an array of cameras and infrared lights, it can tell precisely where you’re looking on your screen. Tobii is positioning it as a gaming peripheral, and the company is working with publishers like Ubisoft and some indie developers to integrate eye tracking into their games. In Kingdom Come: Deliverance , you can control the camera a bit with your eyes similar to the TrackIR head-tracking camera. And you can set onscreen UI elements to fade to almost total transparency unless you’re looking at them — when you do, they will immediately pop back to 100 percent opacity.
You can also use Tobii’s Streaming Gaze app to display a graphic representation of where you’re looking in videos on Twitch or YouTube. The company wants esports pros to use this to show their fans where they’re looking when they pull off impressive plays … I used it to play Where’s Waldo and to have my friends perform experiments on me during a livestream on Twitch.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Tobii’s eye tracking works so well, that I expect that we’ll find it and similar tech in all kinds of products over the next couple of years. Laptop manufacturers are already building Tobii into certain notebooks, and Tobii wants to bring it to manufacturing.
 I’d anticipate that we’d also get it in smartphones in the next several years.
And that’s what I find scary — even if it’s a good kind of scared. Imagine all the things this tech could enable. You could sell data to websites and mobile apps that details what content people look at and what they ignore. You could build psychological marketing profiles of individuals based on what they look at in a video or image.
Or imagine these cameras at retail stores and Target sending you an email about how that shirt with the cool buttons you were staring at are on sale.
I can also picture a near future where you have something like this built into your smartwatch or glasses, and you get a notification if a stranger is staring at you in public.
Above: What you got going on, Kevin? For now, however, my experience with Tobii eye tracking only involves gaming. And while I wait for some of the sci-fi implementations, I’ll keep it plugged into my PC for a while to see if it is a meaningful improvement to my games.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
