Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages ARKit app Skrite adds teleportation to its AR messenger (Updated) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Ever since Pokémon Go popularized augmented reality apps, developers have been trying to build the “next big thing.” Skrite Labs has announced the addition of a new feature that lets its users virtually teleport to locations around the world.
The Skrite app lets users create and post user-generated AR content directly from an iPhone or iPad. Messages can be private or public, and users have posted more than 200,000 messages on the app, to date.
Today’s announcement brings a new feature that allows users to experience 360-degree panoramic views of skylines where Skrite messages have been posted. If a user makes a Skrite above the Statue of Liberty, for example, their followers or friends receive a notification. Once followers choose to view the message, they are “teleported” to the exact location where the AR content was posted in the sky above the famous landmark and can see the material left by the original creator.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! “Our primary acquisition strategy has been to build an exceptional app that leverages groundbreaking technology,” Skrite cofounder and COO Dr. Arshia Siddique told me. “The AR market, to date, has been saturated with gaming apps, so there has been a real thirst for something that’s more accessible to everyone. Skrite stands out because of its uniqueness to enable social interaction through augmented reality in a way that’s never been done before. And because users can claim portions of the sky on a first-come, first-served basis, there’s incentive to reserve your space now.” But when it comes to user acquisition, the company hasn’t simply relied on creating an engaging experience.
“Tactically, we focused on the college market early on, via online and offline channels such as ground marketing, Facebook ads, and more, and saw the Skrite community take off from there,” Siddique said.
Analysts agree that AR has a high potential for long-term cultural change.
According to Digi-Capital, the augmented and virtual reality market is expected to hit $120 billion by 2020.
 Apple CEO Tim Cook recently stated that “AR is big and profound” and “one of those huge things that we’ll look back at and marvel at the start of it.” “Undoubtedly, AR will command a very important segment of technology,” Siddique said. “We’ve focused on the ubiquity of smartphones so far but will continue to explore all other options that make AR more accessible.” Of course, AR glasses are the obvious device for broad consumer adoption. With recent announcements from the likes of Magic Leap, we’re getting closer to devices that the average person won’t mind wearing in public. Once that happens, AR will affect our daily lives in exciting new ways.
“Over the next five years, we anticipate a new spectrum of everyday uses for AR — from Wikipedia-type information for landmarks to navigation and business reviews,” Siddique said. “We predict that owning physical space will become just as important — if not more — than online domain space.” “There will soon be a land grab to own the physical space, and that’s a big opportunity for us,” Siddique said. “We’re exploring a network that can stream AR ads on all platforms that have integrated it with their businesses. We plan to share more soon.” Correction on March 6: Skrite doctored a chart regarding its popularity in Apple’s App Store. We have removed the offending claims from this story.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
