Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Voice shopping may hit $40 billion by 2022 in the U.S. alone Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Amazon Echo Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
The voice shopping market is expected to grow from $2 billion today to $40 billion by 2022, according to a new survey of 1,500 owners of smart speaker like Google Home and Amazon Echo in the United States. The survey was conducted by OC&C Strategy Consultants in December 2017 and released today.
AI assistants are spreading to more devices in the home and to environments beyond the home like the car and workplace — so much so that, in the next four years, 55 percent of U.S. households are forecast to have a smart speaker, according to Juniper Research.
Grocery shopping is the most commonly used voice shopping category today, making up 20 percent of shopping among survey respondents. That’s not a complete surprise when you consider more than 50 percent of Amazon Echo speakers are used in the kitchen. Grocery is followed by entertainment (19 percent), electronics (17 percent), and clothing (8 percent).
A survey by Consumer Intelligence Research Partners last month found that Amazon has 69 percent of the U.S. smart speaker market, while Google brings in 31 percent. Though Amazon continued to outsell Google in the latter half of the year, Google did gain some ground as Home sales surged during the holiday season.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Google announced it’s sold millions of smart speakers in recent months, while Amazon said “tens of millions” of Alexa-enabled devices were sold and the Echo Dot was the best-selling product from any manufacturer in any category across all of Amazon this holiday season.
Players entering the smart speaker market this year include Apple, whose HomePod hit store shelves earlier this month ; Samsung, which plans to release a smart speaker with Bixby inside in the second half of 2018 ; and potentially Facebook, which unnamed sources said plans to release a video chat device with voice control at F8 in May. Microsoft’s Cortana is also expected to make its way into additional devices this year following the release of the Harman Kardon Invoke in October.
Both Amazon’s Alexa and Google Assistant can make recommendations for voice shoppers today. These recommendations, like the kind Alexa draws from Amazon’s Choice products, will become even more important, the study says, since 85 percent of consumers pick the product Amazon suggests.
While Amazon draws from its marketplace, Google Assistant connects with Google Express, a service made available in the past year to get products from major retailers like Walmart, Home Depot, and Costco.
Amazon is reportedly in talks with brands like Procter & Gamble and Clorox to promote their products to Alexa users.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
