Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Golem Gates fuses real-time strategy and collectible card game Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Laser Guided Games and Hollow Earth are launching the first episode of Golem Gates , a hybrid game that combines real-time strategy combat and collectible card battlers like Hearthstone or Magic: The Gathering.
The release on Steam is the first part of a single-player campaign, which they’ll publish later. The teams at Laser Guided Games include industry veterans from Epic Games, while Hollow Earth was responsible for character design in the Marvel films Spider-Man Homecoming , Iron Man , and the upcoming Avengers: Infinity War.
 It’s $20 in Steam Early Access, and it should come out as a full release in March.
Golem Gates is a dark fantasy RTS and CCG, and the first episode, dubbed Book I, is available today as a free update on Steam. It has 100 collectible cards (known as Glyphs) for combat units, buildings, traps, buffs, debuffs, and techs.
Above: Golem Gates is a mystery in five episodes.
The story begins with a mysterious voice, calling from the darkness. The Harbinger is an outcast in this forsaken world, and its goal is to find the monolithic Golem Gates, which aid the enemy, and destroy them to be redeemed. The episode teaches the player to wield the power of The Harbinger to manipulate and command nanites from The Ash. Over the course of five episodes, you’ll follow this mystery about the golem’s long-lost creators.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! “We’re thrilled to introduce players to the The Harbinger, the protagonist of the game, and the Golem Gates themselves, the ominous giant structures that protect the enemy,” said Hollow Earth head Josh Nizzi, in a statement. “We can’t wait for players to dive deeper into the dark and dangerous world of Golem Gates.” Through Steam Early Access, players can take their decks online in various competitive and cooperative multiplayer modes and experience the beginnings of Golem Gate’s story ahead of launch. Today’s update also adds a new Trials Mode for a series of diverse challenges.
Above: Golem Gates fuses RTS and CCG gameplay.
“With the introduction of the Golem Gates single-player campaign, players can now further immerse themselves in its arcane setting,” said Laser Guided Games’ Matt Oelfke, founder and lead developer, in a statement. “Our Early Access players enjoying Golem Gates’ multiplayer side couldn’t get enough of the world we created, so we’ve expanded our scope to deliver even more single-player content than originally planned. Book I is just the beginning, and we can’t wait to hear what fans think.” Golem Gates is a collaborative project developed by Laser Guided Games and Hollow Earth. The Laser Guided Games team has worked on titles such as Gears of War and Unreal Tournament, while Hollow Earth focuses on art design and story development. Hollow Earth’s Nizzi was also involved in games such as Red Faction and MechAssault 2.
Laser Guided Games is self-funded and it has four employees.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
