Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Kingdom Come: Deliverance wins the He-Man’s Manly Game for Men Award Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Kingdom Come: Deliverance is an open-world role-playing adventure set during medieval times in Europe. Developer Warhorse Studios promised historical accuracy and realism with the game, and that didn’t come across while playing it. Instead, the developer ended up a medieval version of Entourage.
And the game’s bro-y vibe is why it wins the He-Man’s Manly Game for Men Award as part of our GamesBeat Rewind 2018 retrospective.
You can listen to us discuss the award in the video above or as part of Bad Awards podcast below: In Kingdom Come, you’re a blacksmith’s son who hangs out with three other bros. The writing reduces most women to nothing more than potential sexual conquests. And if the women in the game aren’t someone you can try to have sex with, then Warhorse doesn’t really have any interest in them.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The best example of this is an early quest where you have to go mess with the Deutsch. Up to this point, the game has given everyone a name, or — in the Deutsch’s case — a nickname. But as part of this quest, you have to harass the German by getting his wife away from their home so they can throw cow manure at it. But the Deutsch’s wife is just called “Deutsch’s wife.” She didn’t get a name. She only existed because of her relationship to her husband. And to drive this point home, the Deutsch’s son shows up to fight you for throwing crap at his house, and the son, Hans, does have a name.
I found this all indicative of what kind of game Kingdom Come: Deliverance is. It isn’t as concerned about “historical accuracy” as it is about making a game for guys.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
