Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored This AI-driven writing aid corrects more than just typos and grammar Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Writing is hard. Whether you’re drafting an email to your boss or trying to pen the next great American novel, ensuring that everything from your punctuation to your overall sentence structures is error-free is no easy task.
But most spell-checking apps and grammar aids only live up to their names when it comes to overall functionality.
WhiteSmoke Writing Assistant , on the other hand, is a comprehensive, all-in-one tool that corrects everything from minor typos to the overall flow of your text, and right now a Lifetime Premium subscription is available for 80 percent off at just $79.
Unlike most writing aids that rely on simple tools and libraries to check your punctuation and grammar, WhiteSmoke Writing Assistant utilizes artificial intelligence to help improve your overall writing style as well.
Whether you’re writing on a mobile device or desktop, this top-rated app is compatible with all browsers, easy to install, and lets you perfect your writing in virtually any medium.
It activates with a single click and quickly analyzes your text using unique patented algorithms that will help you craft better sentences and eliminate multiple types of writing errors — from small mistakes and typos to grammar issues and formatting mistakes. You’ll also have unlimited access to a wide range of writing tutorials and document templates that can save you much-needed time during the drafting process.
This software even comes with a translator that can be used with over fifty languages, and you’ll even be able to easily check for accidental plagiarism thanks to a huge database of submitted papers, emails, and journal entries — making this an ideal tool for students and academic writers.
Write more effectively with a Lifetime Premium subscription to WhiteSmoke Writing Assistant for just $79 — 80 percent off its usual price for a limited time.
VentureBeat Deals is a partnership between VentureBeat and StackCommerce. This post does not constitute editorial endorsement. If you have any questions about the products you see here or previous purchases, please contact StackCommerce support here.
Want your products featured in VentureBeat Deals? Learn more about how to sell your products online! VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
