Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored These compact Bluetooth earbuds offer supreme sound and portability Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Bluetooth wireless earbuds don’t tend to have stellar reputations when it comes to audio quality. Although much more convenient and portable than traditional over-ear headphones, these compact cousins tend to lack the rich bass and defined treble that most serious listeners crave from a piece of audio equipment.
These REVEL True Wireless Earbuds, however, break all the rules by offering supreme portability and convenience along with truly incredible sound, and right now you can land a pair for over 45 percent off at just $79.95 for a limited time.
Featuring the latest Bluetooth 5.0 technology, these earbuds are ideal for audiophiles who don’t want to sacrifice sonic quality for portability.
These buds deliver a defined, rich bass and crystal-clear highs, along with a detailed and defined midrange that doesn’t interfere with the other frequencies (an all-too-common problem for most earbuds of this size), thanks to powerful Neodymium drivers and a frequency range of 15Hz to 22Khz.
They easily connect to any Bluetooth-compatible device and deliver a whopping fifty hours of on-the-go listening with an included charging case — meaning you won’t have to worry about your music cutting out even if you’re away from an outlet for extended periods of time. And when you do finally need to charge, you can get the job done in less than forty minutes.
These buds are also incredibly comfortable, thanks to a twist-and-lock configuration that allows them to fit snuggly in your ear, and they won’t fall out even if you’re in the middle of an especially demanding workout or run — making them ideal for exercise enthusiasts. They’re even fully sweat-proof.
Don’t sacrifice great sound for on-the-go convenience and portability. These REVEL True Wireless Earbuds offer both for just $79.95 — over 45 percent off their MSRP for a limited time.
VentureBeat Deals is a partnership between VentureBeat and StackCommerce. This post does not constitute editorial endorsement. If you have any questions about the products you see here or previous purchases, please contact StackCommerce support here.
Want your products featured in VentureBeat Deals? Learn more about how to sell your products online! VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
