Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages AI Weekly: 2018 in machine learning Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Artificial intelligence is without question one of the most captivating and influential corners of the technology world today, but it’s also one of the noisiest.
To wrap our heads around the complicated mashup of subjects that coalesce to make coverage of the AI beat possible, we write the AI Weekly.
This is our sandbox of sorts, a place to let the most important topics that emerge in AI circles ruminate, stretch out, and find clarity. Naturally, a fair number of conceptual insights have emerged throughout the year.
So instead of diving deep into the news of the day, this week we’re looking back at some favorites from 2018 — topics with lasting impact and importance.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! On the AI assistant front, we saw Alexa and Cortana begin to work together. Cortana is available on hundreds of millions of devices, and Echo is still the most popular smart speaker. Google has the Android operating system, though, an advantage that allows for a smart speaker and smartphone combination unlike any of its competitors.
That advantage is not insurmountable, however, because although Google took steps to improve its Assistant on Android smartphones, as ambient computing becomes more popular and people increasingly blurt out questions that come to mind, Alexa is beginning to eat into Google’s search dominance.
We documented how this fall Google, Facebook, and Amazon simultaneously fought major scandals while at the same time entering full pitch mode for smart displays, and we looked at the need for trust in AI assistant adoption.
We also took time to recognize the good that people are trying to accomplish with intelligent machines, like the multiple systems zeroing in on cardiovascular disease, the biggest killer in the world.
We also took a moment to note that President Trump should have listened to Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, who has since resigned in protest , and formulated a national AI strategy like other nations, such as China, have done.
Also in Washington, we took a close look at how U.S. senators, many of them Democratic presidential candidates, have raised a lot of questions about facial recognition software, which could become a 2020 presidential campaign issue.
One of my favorites from Kyle Wiggers is about the danger that too much focus on apocalyptic AGI scenarios of the future will distract from pressing problems we face now. He also shared a collection of insights from NeurIPS (formerly NIPS) and covered the conflicts between business and government concerning autonomous driving regulation.
My favorite from former AI staff writer Blair Hanley Frank analyzed the way tech companies market AI solutions and proclaimed that Sensei, Watson, and Einstein must die.
I know I said I wouldn’t offer any conceptual scoops this week, but one insight does arise from this array of highlights.
In a recent conversation, I heard someone argue that AI is basically the same as previous tech paradigm shifts, like mobile and social, which have gone from being nascent interests to permeating our daily lives.
But artificial intelligence differs from such previous leaps in that it may end up infiltrating society on a level previously unimagined, extending from business to government to education and national defense.
That means it’s going to require understanding from and possible action by lawmakers, business leaders, military leaders, civil leaders, and the citizenry of democratic societies.
That’s probably why the AI Index 2018 report found a sharp rise in the number of mentions of AI by members of the U.S. Congress and British members of Parliament this year.
Enjoy 2019, and if there’s anything in particular you think we should be writing about in the newsletter or our coverage, feel free to email Kyle Wiggers at kyle.wiggers@venturebeat.com or me at khari@venturebeat.com.
Thanks for reading, Khari Johnson AI Staff Writer P.S. Please enjoy this video from Nvidia of fabricated AI faces generated from the faces of real people.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kSLJriaOum From VB Samsung’s C-Lab takes the wraps off 8 new products, including an AI-driven desk lamp Samsung gave a preview of its C-Lab incubator’s eight latest graduates, including an AI-enabled desk lamp and an ASMR sound recording app.
Amazon: Purchases through Alexa this holiday season tripled year-over-year TVs, set-top boxes, tablets, and speakers with Amazon’s Alexa built in made for popular gifts this season, according to the retailer.
10 things to try with your new Echo smart speaker TVs, set-top boxes, tablets, and speakers with Amazon’s Alexa built in made for popular gifts this season, according to the retailer.
10 things to do with your new Google Home smart speaker This is a guide to the basics: 10 top features and ways to start talking with Google Assistant and put your Google Home smart speaker to work.
3 tech companies whose terrible 2018 you missed: Snap, Yelp, and IBM Three companies may not have made huge headlines in 2018 but are still facing big questions heading into 2019: Yelp, Snap, and IBM.
13 European companies acquired by U.S. tech giants in 2018 A look back at some of the European companies bought up by U.S. tech firms in 2018, including Shazam, iZettle, and Blue Vision Labs.
Beyond VB New AI computer vision system mimics how humans visualize and identify objects Donald Knuth, master of algorithms, reflects on 50 years of his opus-in-progress, “The Art of Computer Programming.” (via Science Daily) The welfare state is committing suicide by artificial intelligence Denmark is using algorithms to deliver benefits to citizens—and undermining its own democracy in the process.
(via Foreign Policy) Every tree in the city, mapped Researchers at Descartes Labs are using artificial intelligence to make a better map of the urban tree canopy.
(via CityLab) Robotic creepy-crawlies climb walls Two teams of researchers exploit electrostatic forces to send mini-bots up vertical surfaces. Andrew Masterson reports.
(via Cosmos) VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
