Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Capcom is celebrating Mega Man’s 30th anniversary with some kind of live stream Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn My money's on Mega Man.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Capcom is going to host a livestream celebrating Mega Man’s 30th anniversary on December 4. You’ll be able to watch it on Twitch at 11 a.m. Pacific. Capcom announced the stream by sending out cards to some outlets, including Siliconera.
 The card includes the note, “You won’t want to miss it.” Mega Man was once one of Capcom’s most important franchises, but the series has laid mostly dormant since 2010’s Mega Man 10. Outside of collections and bad mobile games , the franchise has hosted more cancellations (including Mega Man Universe and Mega Man Legends 3 ) than new releases in recent memory. Yet Mega Man remains an iconic character. The series has inspired merchandise , rock bands , and comics. A new cartoon based on Mega Man is also coming out next year. Combine all that with the retro revolution , and it seems like Mega Man is ready for a comeback.
The first Mega Man came out for the Nintendo Entertainment System in 1987. The 2D sidescroller combined platforming with shooting action. It inspired sequels and spinoff series, including the edgier Mega Man X, the 3D role-playing games Mega Man Legends, and card-based Mega Man Battle Network. It used to feel like you couldn’t turn a corner without seeing a new Mega Man game.
But that ended around 2010. That’s when Keiji Inafune, who was something of a shepard for the franchise, left Capcom. The studio then cancelled all current Mega Man projects, as if in retaliation.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Capcom has been easing back into the series. The last couple of years saw the releases of Mega Man Legacy Collection and Mega Man Legacy Collection 2, which together brought the original Mega Man series, 1 through 10, to PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC. Mega Man showed up as a playable character in Nintendo’s Super Smash Bros. for 3DS and Wii U, and X appeared in this year’s Marvel vs. Capcom: Infinite along with other characters from that series.
Mega Man has also been a part of Nintendo’s new classic consoles. Mega Man 2 is included with the NES Classic Edition , while the SNES Classic Edition has Mega Man X.
Hopefully, Capcom is about to treat Mega Man more like Street Fighter , another classic series that it still supports with modern games.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
