Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Uptake raises $117 million to spot inefficiencies in industrial machinery Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Uptake , a predictive analytics software provider based in Chicago, announced today that it has raised a $117 million Series D round. The round was led by Baillie Gifford, a U.K.-based venture capital firm, with participation from Revolution Growth, which is led by AOL cofounder Steve Case.
Cofounded in 2014 by Groupon cofounder Brad Keywell, Uptake reportedly reached a valuation of $2 billion earlier this year. The company’s software helps its enterprise customers collect and analyze sensor data on industrial machinery and equipment in a variety of industries, including agriculture, aviation, and energy. Uptake’s pitch is that its software can then help customers figure out how to run their machines more efficiently.
In a case study listed on Uptake’s website, the company claims that it helped a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Energy save $250,000 in one week after it “detected a wind turbine equipment problem and recommended action in the first week of deployment.” Other customers include Caterpillar, an Illinois-based manufacturer of farm equipment, and Panduit, a manufacturer of communications, IT, and other physical infrastructure equipment.
Uptake is tight-lipped about its operations — declining to share the average contract size for an Uptake customer — but it has been on a fundraising tear, having raised $90 million in a series C round earlier this year. News about the company’s series D round comes just a few weeks after an announcement that Caterpillar, an early investor in Uptake, is pulling its stake in the company , though it plans to remain a customer.
“We both agreed it was important for Uptake to be independent of any equipment manufacturer, so as a result we bought back the Uptake shares that were held by Caterpillar. They continue to be an important customer and utilize our products on a global basis,” Keywell, who is Uptake’s CEO, said in a statement emailed to VentureBeat.
According to the press release, the new round of financing will “enable Uptake to accelerate its global expansion in key industries.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
