Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages European startups face an epic gender balance fail that rivals Silicon Valley Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn CEO and founder of Jobbatical Karoli Hindriks stands in the company's Tallinn, Estonia headquarters.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Silicon Valley gets a deservedly bad rap for its attitudes toward women in tech and for their lack of representation among startups and venture capital firms.
It turns out, Europe’s startup aren’t much better. Even more problematic, it seems, is that European entrepreneurs think they’re doing a great job with gender balance, which means they are oblivious to reality.
That is one of the conclusions from the sweeping “ State of European Tech 2017 ” report released today by Atomico at the Slush tech conference in Helsinki, Finland. Recognizing and addressing this profound gender balance is one of the key challenges Europe’s tech ecosystem must overcome if it’s going to continue its momentum, according to the report’s author, Tom Wehmeier, a partner and head of research at Atomico.
“It’s clear that for tech in Europe, like everywhere, there is a serious imbalance between men and women,” he said.
Atomico’s data shows that women only account for 9 percent of top executive slots at European startups. In Europe’s venture capital industry, women only hold 13 percent of decision-making positions.
Oddly, European entrepreneurs, both men and women, seem to think things are great. According to an Atomico survey, 60 percent of women and 52 percent of men agreed that “gender diversity is positively reflected in employee composition” at their companies. That’s a very different dynamic than in the U.S., where surveys tend to show that more than 80 percent of men think they’re crushing it when it comes to gender balance, but only around 20 percent of women would agree.
As Wehmeier notes, this is really a global problem. A Crunchbase report from earlier this year found that only 17 percent of startups around the world have a female founder. And another Crunchbase report from October indicated that for the top 100 venture firms, only 8 percent of the partners are women.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
