Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Dublin spending $24 million to transform a ferry building into a startup campus Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Rendering inside of Dublin's proposed Harbour Innovation Campus.
Dublin is about to become the latest European city to join the startup campus craze.
Today, the city announced a proposal to create The Harbour Innovation Campus.
 The proposed campus was described as a “state-of-the-art shared innovation space for local and international companies” that will have 75,000 square feet and room for 1,000 members across its former arrivals hall, departure lounge, baggage hall, and ticket office buildings. Externally, the historic building will remain unchanged, but internally the building will be repurposed to serve the needs of a world-class innovation campus while offering stunning sea views from almost every desk.
The former ferry building is situated on Dublin Bay, about 20 minutes from the city center. The proposal is being spearheaded by local businessman Phillip Gannon.
“Dublin yearns for it’s own coastal innovation hub, and this is it,” Gannon said in a statement. “Inside the Harbour Innovation Campus, founders, innovators, and entrepreneurs will find several VC funds, a wide range of trained mentors, and numerous business advisors all focused on helping occupants to grow their businesses.” Gannon noted that Brexit “continues to create uncertainty for U.K. and European relations” and said he hopes the new campus can leverage that situation to attract more startups to Ireland.
The new campus will include a maker space for “creative prototype design in wood, metal, plastic, and electronics.” It will also offer space for larger corporations that want to rub shoulders with startups.
Building a startup campus is a thing now in Europe, with Paris, London, Berlin, Lisbon, Helsinki and Venice all making their claim. Though quite large, the new Dublin startup campus would be about a fifth the size of Paris’ Station F, the mega startup campus that opened last summer.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
