Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages AWS relaunches Cloud9 collaborative development environment, a year after acquisition Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Amazon CTO Werner Vogels speaks at AWS re:Invent in Las Vegas on November 30, 2017.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Amazon Web Services launched a new service today that’s designed to provide developers with a full development environment running in its cloud.
Called AWS Cloud9 , it’s designed to give developers a collaborative workspace for writing code and running the terminal commands necessary to create and deploy software.
Using AWS Cloud9, developers will be able to provide read-only or read and write access to their workspace for other collaborators, who will then be able to concurrently edit code and chat about changes they’re making. The software integrates with AWS Lambda, the cloud provider’s service for running short, event-driven code functions, as well.
Above: A screenshot shows the AWS Cloud9 editor.
Live collaboration is important for the practice of pair programming, when two people work together to write code and smash bugs. But more than that, it’s also useful for providing assistance with tricky bugs, or just give one engineer a window into the work someone else is doing in real time. Because Cloud9 is running on AWS, people don’t have to sit next to one another in order to see what’s going on.
Live collaboration has become a key feature for developer tool companies over the past several months. Microsoft announced live collaboration for its Visual Studio development environment a few weeks ago, while GitHub recently announced a new feature for its Atom text editor that provides co-editing capabilities.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The service is based on the cloud provider’s acquisition of Cloud9 last year.
 Workspaces that users have created through Cloud9’s website will continue to run, according to an AWS blog post. People who want to move to AWS Cloud9 from the previous environment will be able to do so using migration tools that the company plans to provide later.
Cloud9 comes preloaded with users’ AWS credentials, so that they can right away start running terminal commands that perform actions on the company’s cloud platform.
It’s integrated with AWS Lambda to provide debugging of cloud functions, so that users will be able to see how their code will run before deploying it in production. What’s more, AWS Cloud9 will be able to pull in any Lambda function users can access through the cloud platform for coding and debugging, even if they didn’t initially write it using Cloud9.
The news comes as part of AWS re:Invent, the cloud provider’s major customer conference in Las Vegas. Earlier today, the company announced Alexa for Business , a series of integrations that are designed to bring Amazon’s virtual assistant to the office.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
