Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages World of Final Fantasy is coming to PC via Steam Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Square Enix announced today that its role-playing game World of Final Fantasy is coming to PC via the Steam digital store on November 21.
World of Final Fantasy launched last October for PlayStation 4 and Vita. Coming out on PC can expose the game to a new audience that doesn’t have access to those systems.
World of Final Fantasy is a more family-friendly RPG that features appearances from characters across the historic franchise, like Cloud from Final Fantasy VII and Lightning from Final Fantasy XIII.
We think that it’s a charming and fun romp for Final Fantasy fans and less experienced players.
Square Enix has been committing more franchises and resources to PC. A PC port of Final Fantasy XV is coming out next year, and older entries in the series (like Final Fantasy IX ) has also been appearing on Steam.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
