Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft confirms Surface Pro LTE will ship to businesses from December 1 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Surface Pro Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Microsoft has finally confirmed launch details for the fabled LTE version of its Surface Pro 2-in-1 tablet / laptop hybrid.
Microsoft announced the fifth incarnation of the Surface Pro at an event in Shanghai back in May, and the company revealed that one of the models would ship with built-in cellular connectivity. Though various versions of the all-new Surface Pro are already available to buy — ranging from $800 to $2,700 depending on the configuration — the LTE unit had hitherto failed to materialize.
It was widely believed that Microsoft would confirm further details of the Surface Pro LTE at this week’s event, with rumors initially suggesting that the device would be made available on December 1.
This was followed by reports that the hybrid wouldn’t actually arrive until spring 2018.
Taking to the stage at his company’s Future Decoded event in London this morning, Microsoft devices chief Panos Panay confirmed that the Microsoft Surface Pro (LTE) will indeed be available in December, initially for businesses only.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Above: Panos Panay at Future Decoded, 2017 (London) Panay didn’t mention pricing, when the device may be available for general consumers, or an anticipated battery life — with LTE, it should be less than Microsoft’s claimed 13.5 hours on the standard Wi-Fi version of the Surface Pro. But we can confirm that it will be available with an Intel core i5 processor, and it will ship with 20 LTE bands to ensure worldwide cellular compatibility.
Today’s news comes just a couple of weeks after Microsoft unveiled its all new Surface Book , which included a new 15-inch variant. The company’s range of Surface-branded devices has grown significantly since the Surface Pro’s debut back in 2012. Today, the lineup includes the Surface laptop , Surface Book , Surface Studio , Surface Hub , and, of course, the Surface Pro. Some may argue that in Microsoft’s quest to showcase its software on its own dedicated hardware, the Seattle tech titan has muddied the waters too much — rumors abounded earlier this month that the company is set to pull the plug on Surface hardware in 2019, though that seems unlikely based on recent evidence. What is more likely, however, is that Microsoft will look to consolidate its Surface range.
Whatever happens, a Surface Pro with LTE baked in will likely prove popular, given that a large target market for the device is frequent travellers.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
