Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google brings fast wireless headphone Bluetooth pairing to Android Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google Pixel Buds use the cloud to do real-time translation.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google today announced a new feature called Fast Pair to quickly sync a pair of headphones with an Android smartphone. Fast Pair requires you to simply place a pair of headphones in Pairing mode near an Android device. This triggers a push notification on the phone screen. According to a demonstration in a post by Android product managers , once you tap that notification, it should only take a few seconds to pair headphones with the device.
The new pairing feature requires Android 6.0 (Marshmallow) or higher, as well as Google Play versions 11.7 or above. While that accounts for about half of Android devices , the support on the headphone side is much smaller.
Fast Pair will only be available for Google Pixel Buds and Libratone Q-Adapt wireless headphones, a Made for Google accessory.
 The Plantronics Voyager 8200 series headphones will also be able to connect with Fast Pair in the future, but Google didn’t provide an exact date.
Many an audiophile was disappointed to learn earlier this month that Google’s Pixel 2 smartphones do not come with a headphone jack , joining iPhones in ditching the traditional feature. Fast Pair could quell some of that anxiety.
The move also appears to be in response to Apple’s AirPods, whose exclusive automatic ear detection feature for AirPods and iOS devices connects via Bluetooth and resumes audio play whenever the headphones are placed in your ears.
Fast Pair is one in a series of features Google is offering to incentivize Pixel Buds purchases. The wireless headphones, which were unveiled a few weeks ago and are due out next month for $159, can transmit translation of 40 different languages into your ears , then produce translation for the other person in the conversation via a smartphone’s speakers. Pixel Buds will also deliver Google Assistant notifications, reminders, and navigation.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
