Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Steve Case is raising a $100 million ‘Rise of the Rest’ seed fund, according to SEC filing Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Steve Case's Rise of the Rest is a nationwide effort to work closely with entrepreneurs in emerging startup ecosystems.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Steve Case and the team at Rise of the Rest are raising $100 million for a new seed fund, a Securities and Exchange Commission filing from Friday shows.
According to the Form D filing , the fund has yet to bring in outside investors and the minimum investment is $250,000. Revolution CEO Steve Case is listed as the fund’s general partner and a member of the Rise of the Rest investment committee.
The expected $100 million raise will come in the form of venture capital, instead of a hedge fund or private equity fund, which is also to be expected given the forms past Rise of the Rest investments have made.
Rise of the Rest is an initiative pioneered by Steve Case, who is also the co-founder of AOL, in an effort to highlight startups in tech hubs outside of San Francisco, New York City and Boston. The team includes Anna Mason, ROTR’s director of investments, and “Hillbilly Elegy” author J.D. Vance, who joined Revolution in March to head up the initiative.
Revolution could not comment on the new filing. It’s unclear when the new seed fund would close or what exactly the new funds will be used for, if anything, outside of funding new startups for future Rise of the Rest tours.
Rise of the Rest just finished the sixth leg of its tour to not-as-well-known tech and startup hubs. The tour visited Harrisburg, Lancaster and York, Pa.; Ann Arbor, Mich.; Indianapolis, Ind.; Columbus, Ohio; and Green Bay, Wisc. throughout October. Startup founders pitched the ROTR investment team on their ideas for a chance to walk away with an investment from Case.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
