Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages IBM unveils software that brings public cloud to private data centers Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
IBM unveiled a product today to help enterprises use open source technologies to bring a cloud deployment model to their private data centers.
Appropriately called Cloud Private, the system is designed to help businesses orchestrate modern applications on their existing infrastructure, using Kubernetes and Cloud Foundry, a pair of popular open source tools. With this offering, the tech company seeks to provide a consistent technology platform for building applications, making it easier for business users to move their workloads to and from the public cloud.
This is technically the second version of Cloud Private, which IBM launched as an open source project earlier this year. This release includes a number of important features, including support for containers like WebSphere, DB2, and MongoDB. That’s particularly important for customers that have legacy workloads and want to move them to a more modern platform.
Cloud Private also adds support for running Cloud Foundry in addition to Docker containers, which makes the system compatible with a wider variety of workloads.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Customers will be able to pay for Cloud Private’s enterprise edition in two ways. The first involves a traditional license for the software plus an ongoing service contract, similar to other enterprise software products. A second option will allow customers to negotiate an ongoing flat fee, meaning they pay an agreed-upon subscription for a particular amount of compute usage, with the ability to scale up their workloads for an additional charge.
The second pricing model was designed to give customers a cloud-like experience that lets them pay for what they use, while also maintaining some price predictability so they aren’t on the hook for massive cost spikes.
Customers who want to try out Cloud Private without purchasing a license can use the software’s Community Edition , which is available for free.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
