Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release Crimson Ventures and Sabot Ventures Form Cabin Creek Properties, Close on First Property Acquisition Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn NASHVILLE, Tenn.–(BUSINESS WIRE)–October 31, 2017– Crimson Ventures today announced that its joint venture partnership with Sabot Ventures has closed on its first property acquisition. The partnership launched a new investment company named Cabin Creek Properties, which was created to acquire opportunistic real estate properties throughout the United States. Cabin Creek Properties’ first transaction is a 6,700 sq. ft. office building located at 4336 Kenilwood Drive in Nashville, Tenn.
Eric Richey, managing member of Sabot Ventures, commented, “The Cabin Creek name has long ties to my family, previously serving as the name of our Montana-based ranch operations, and we are hopeful that this new real estate venture contributes to its meaningful legacy. I am excited to again be working with Rob Walker, who will serve as president of Cabin Creek Properties.” Advisors in this transaction included Bank of America, Eakin Partners, Waterford Law Group and Milan Insurance Partners.
About Sabot Ventures : Sabot Ventures is led by Eric H. Richey, who is the founder and CEO of Sovereign Sportsman Solutions (a high-growth tech solutions company providing software to state governments); president of Sovereign Sportsman Network (a two-time Emmy award-winning outdoors-focused marketing, media and product development company); and partner with Sovereign Outfitters (an African-based safari and hunting operation). Sabot also partners with numerous charities supporting conservation efforts and our nation’s military and law enforcement heroes. Additional information can be found at www.S3gov.com and www.SovereignSportsman.com.
About Crimson Ventures : Crimson Ventures, based in Nashville, Tenn., is a management consulting and angel investing company focused on assisting companies at key inflection points such as capital raising, M&A transactions, business exits, management successions, hyper-growth, turn-arounds and more. Crimson maintains minority equity positions in several operating companies including Thrivist, Sovereign Sportsman Solutions, Hilburn Investment Company, Transformational Fulfilment & Warehousing, Glide Slope Partners and more. Additional information is available at www.CrimsonVenturesLLC.com.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
