Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Berlin’s Ada Health raises $47 million for global expansion of its AI-driven medical app Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Ada cofounders (l to r): Dr. Claire Novorol, Daniel Nathrath, Dr. Martin Hirsch.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Ada Health, whose telemedicine app mixes artificial intelligence and human doctors, has seen a surge of users that has investors swooning and ready to bet big on the Berlin-based startup.
Today, Ada Health announced that it has raised $47 million in venture capital in a funding round led by Access Industries, June Fund, and Berlin-based Cumberland VC. In addition, the company said that William Tunstall-Pedoe, an AI entrepreneur who originally helped develop Amazon’s Alexa, also invested in the round.
“The future of health care lies in a much more patient-centric model, where individuals have actionable insights at their fingertips, and doctors and artificial intelligence work together to support patients throughout their health care journey,” said Daniel Nathrath, CEO and cofounder of Ada Health, in a statement. “We’ve seen incredible traction since launch, receiving countless messages each day about how we’ve helped someone identify an important health issue and get to the right next step in their care. This is just the beginning, and we’re excited to enable even more people around the world to effectively manage their health.” Ada asks users a set of personalized questions and uses their data and stated symptoms to deliver information and suggestions about what their health problem may be. The app launched in 2016, and Ada says 1.5 million people have used the service, to date.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The company intends to use the latest round of funding for product development and to open a U.S. office. It will also continue to hire across all departments, from marketing to engineering.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
