Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sean Ellis, hacking growth, and why Amazon’s goggles might suck – VB Engage Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
In this week’s episode, Travis and Stewart talk about virtual reality advertising, Intercom’s new lead generation solution, and Amazon’s smart goggles, which sound like they might be a terrible idea. Or they might be good.
Stewart thinks that either way they’ll be cheap because Amazon doesn’t do premium products. In our guest interview, Sean Ellis — the man who invented the term “growth hacking” — gives us all his secrets. Well, not all of them, but a really good number of them.
This is one interview you won’t want to miss if you’re interested in landing more customers and building big communities.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Resources mentioned in the episode Advrty brings native ads to virtual reality Intercom launches Live Chat for Sales to generate leads at scale Amazon’s new smart goggles might make sense, if Alexa is everywhere Sean Ellis GrowthHackers — Helping teams unlock their company’s full growth potential through a combination of software, services, and community Hacking Growth: How today’s fastest-growing companies drive breakout success Next week on VB Engage Tune in next week as we interview Amit Walia, chief product officer at Informatica. We will be talking about artificial intelligence and business insights in the enterprise world. It’s a fascinating interview and you won’t want to miss it, especially if you work in that space.
If you missed last week’s episode Last week, we interviewed ad fraud expert James Peng of Match , the company that runs some of the most recognizable dating apps in the world. This is one episode you’ll want to go home in the same taxi with at the end of the night.
Please leave us a rating or review! If you enjoy the show, please give it a quick rating or review it on your favorite podcast platform. Just search for VB Engage, and we’ll appear. Standing in front of a mirror and saying “VB Engage” three times produces a similar effect.
As always, thanks for tuning in. We think you’re pretty awesome.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
