Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Exclusive Varjo raises $8.2 million to boost its high-res VR headset Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A photo shows what it's like to look through Varjo's headset.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Varjo , a Finnish company that’s working on an ultra high-fidelity mixed reality headset, announced today that it has raised an $8.2 million series A round to propel it forward as it works toward the launch of its first developer kits.
EQT Ventures led the round, with participation from Lifeline Ventures, the Venture Reality Fund, Presence Capital, and others. The funds will be used to build out the Varjo team, expand its marketing program, and continue funding development of its headset.
“Simply put, we were looking to fund our product R&D and a few custom components that must be built to reach crucial improvements in the device quality,” Varjo CEO Urho Konttori said in an email to VentureBeat.
Varjo’s headset is designed to be roughly the size and shape of a traditional virtual reality headset but to provide human-eye resolution for a higher quality image. In addition, the system promises to let users view the world around them by moving a small, high-resolution display around a wearer’s field of view in time with their eye movements. Doing so tricks the brain into thinking that it’s seeing a much higher-resolution image.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! If Varjo can pull this off, the headset should provide users with a higher quality viewing experience than is currently available from headsets without this technology.
According to Konttori, progress on the developer edition of the headset is continuing as planned, and the company expects to make an announcement about its progress at the Slush conference in Helsinki next month.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
