Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sphero Mini is a smart rolling robot the size of a Ping-Pong ball Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Sphero Mini comes in five colors.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Sphero has gotten a lot of mileage out of its rolling robot ball, making everything from the orb-like Sphero to the BB-8 droid from Star Wars: The Force Awakens.
 And now it is taking the ball and running with it (sorry about the cliché) with the new Sphero Mini.
If Sphero Mini looks like a Ping-Pong ball, that’s because cofounder Adam Wilson instructed one of his engineers to create a version of the larger Sphero Sprk+ robot that could fit inside a table tennis ball. They succeeded, and Sphero Mini is going on sale today for $50.
That’s quite an achievement, and it means people who couldn’t afford Sphero’s more expensive toys — which cost $100 or more — can now get in on the fun, Wilson said.
“We wanted to make it smaller and more affordable so that everybody could play,” Wilson said.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Above: Adam Wilson shows of the Sphero Mini.
You can use your smartphone to control Sphero Mini, moving it around the floor at a high speed. But it has more functionality than an ordinary ball. It can, for instance, be controlled via the smartphone to run over a bunch of cones or bowling pins, which come with it. You can control it using a touchscreen in different ways. You can slingshot it around the room or drive it around with your finger.
You can even use your face to drive it. Just point your smartphone camera at your face, and you can smile to make it go one direction or frown to make it go another way.
“We call it ‘face driving’,” Wilson said.
And it’s quite silly.
Above: Sphero Mini can knock over bowling pins.
The Sphero Mini has Bluetooth sensors. The balls are quite durable, and they are programmable.
“Tell me where you can find another $50 programmable robot that can run JavaScript,” Wilson said. “It’s a like a Gateway personal computer from 1989.” The team worked on Sphero Mini for about a year. It came from something Wilson pitched with another engineer at an internal event where anybody in the company could pitch an idea. Wilson pitched his, and one engineer made it. Now they’ve got a bigger team bringing it to market.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
