Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Watch Final Fantasy XV running at 4K and 60 FPS on PC Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Final Fantasy XV is coming to the PC, and it looks even more gorgeous than it does on consoles.
Publisher Square Enix announced that it is porting the latest entry in its long-running role-playing franchise to Windows. The company has also partnered with Nvidia for a marketing deal that has the graphics-hardware manufacturer rolling out videos of the new Final Fantasy running at max settings at a 4K resolution and a solid 60 frames per second. You can see that 105-second clip above.
Square Enix is launching Final Fantasy XV on PC next year (it hasn’t provided a specific date). This comes after it hit PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in late 2016. But PC gamers likely won’t mind the wait since this is a relatively quick turnaround for a Final Fantasy game, which can often take more than three years to hit the PC … if it ever comes to that platform at all. On top of that, the publisher has promised to support mods in Final Fantasy XV. This will enable community creators to add new experiences and content to the game that aren’t possible on PS4 or Xbox One.
But while having mods and access to the core game are great, the biggest draw is perhaps the visual fidelity that is only possible on PC. With help from Nvidia, Square Enix can assure that Final Fantasy XV is optimized to run at 4K and 60 FPS. That’s something we’ve seen recently with the Destiny 2 beta, which Nvidia has helped developer Bungie out with.
 Players are already hailing that game for its excellent performance , and it’s possible that Square Enix’s RPG could see something similar.
“With the help of Nvidia, we are creating a stunning visual experience in Final Fantasy XV: Windows Edition, one worthy of this beloved franchise,” Square Enix director Hajime Tabata said. “Nvidia pushes the pace of innovation in our industry, and that benefits gamers and developers alike.” GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
