Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages PC Gaming Weekly: Where will you meet your Destiny? Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The biggest showdown this fall may not involve Call of Duty or Battlefield. No, this faceoff is between Destiny 2 PC and … Destiny 2 on PlayStation 4 and Xbox One.
Bungie (you know, that little studio known for creating Halo) is conducting a beta test on its highly anticipated online shooter, and GamesBeat PC Gaming editor Jeff Grubb is convinced that it looks, runs, and plays best on a personal computer, not a PS4 or Xbox One. How strong is this opinion? He even wants all of you — and your friends — to sit out the console launch next week and wait for it to hit Blizzard Entertainment’s Battle.net on October 24.
That’s a long time to wait, but he believes Destiny 2 is a special game. Activision built a tremendous amount of hype behind the original’s September 2014 release date, and its lack of stuff to do (among other issues) became a problem for players, and this intensified at the endgame. The first expansion addressed many of its biggest warts, and Activision and Bungie promise that the sequel will launch without those problems.
Of course, another question looms: Will folks stop playing PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds long enough to even notice Destiny? Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! For PC gaming coverage, send news tips to Jeff Grubb and guest post submissions to Rowan Kaiser.
Please be sure to visit our PC Gaming Channel.
You can also enter our Intel-sponsored contest for an iBuyPower Snowblind gaming rig here.
–Jason Wilson, GamesBeat managing editor P.S. Jeff begs you: Wait for Destiny 2 on PC. See why you should consider his plea.
From GamesBeat Orwell: Ignorance is Strength takes on fake news in Season Two PREVIEW: The designers of Orwell: Ignorance is Strength are pulling their story about surveillance and fake news straight from the headlines from U.S. President Donald Trump’s attacks on the media. These have put the spotlight on fake news, and Osmotic Studios is turning this reality show into a computer game. The original Orwell: Keeping an Eye […] Game boss interview: Epic’s Tim Sweeney on blockchain, digital humans, and Fortnite Tim Sweeney, the CEO of Epic Games and one of the game industry’s tech savants, has traveled the world to speak about his vision for a world of connected games with massive simulations and realistic digital humans who look and behave like real people. Sweeney gave a talk at the recent Devcom event in Germany. […] 7 arguments to convince your Destiny 2 friends to skip the console launch Destiny 2 isn’t really coming out next week. I mean, sure — it’s launching on PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on September 6, but that’s not the real Destiny 2. After playing it on PC, I consider the console versions a cheap imitation of the legitimate article. The problem is that Bungie’s latest sci-fi shooter won’t hit […] Overwatch’s Deathmatch mode is a great way to practice “Git gud.” This is often the snarky reply to any Overwatch player who asks another how to get better at Blizzard‘s team-based shooter. But how, exactly, does one get good? Well, like in anything else, you practice. But practicing is hard to do in Overwatch. Enter the new Deathmatch mode, which gives players a place […] Game Boss interview: Grand Theft Auto creator wants to bring realism to massive online games Ever since releasing the original Grand Theft Auto in 1997, Dave Jones has been obsessed with making believable worlds. He worked on more recent online game worlds like the one in All Points Bulletin (APB), and at each point along the way, he ran into huge obstacles on a technological front. Now, he serves as president […] PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds just beat Dota 2 for concurrent players PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds just did the impossible. It had more simultaneous players online through the Steam PC gaming service than Dota 2, according to data-tracking site Steam Spy. This is an incredible achievement because few releases have ever come close to threatening Dota 2’s concurrent player number. And that makes sense because Dota 2 is a […] Beyond GamesBeat How (and why) we ported SHENZHEN SOLITAIRE to MS-DOS Can two programmers who are accustomed to making games for modern computers with gigabytes of RAM and high-color HD displays port one of their games to MS-DOS? Neither of us had any experience developing on such old hardware, but since working within artificially limited systems is something of a Zachtronics game design specialty, we felt compelled to try! (via Gamasutra) PCIe 4.0 Will Be Here in 2017 Following by PCIe 5.0 in 2019 PCI-SIG which is the organization that designs the PCIe express standard has released a roadmap to the public showing off the blueprints for when the next PCIe standard will be upgraded.
(via Dark Side of Gaming) HP stuffed the best gaming desktop perks into the 10-pound Omen X laptop HP gave its Omen gaming line a big boost before this year’s E3 with the launch of new gaming PCs, peripherals, a GPU accelerator, and a VR backpack. While the company wants to provide devices for all kinds of gamers, its newest launch targets enthusiasts who don’t want to compromise power when choosing a portable device.
(via Ars Technica) PUBG players are farming for $300 skirts by going AFK Big games like World of Warcraft and Team Fortress 2 helped popularize the practice of idling: logging into a game without playing it in the hope of passively receiving in-game rewards. In these games and others, players would join custom ‘idle servers,’ or use macros to automate their character movement, allowing them to literally and figuratively sidestep getting kicked for being AFK.
(via PC Gamer) GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
