Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages IDC: Wearables grew 10.3% in Q2 2017, Xiaomi leads Apple and Fitbit as Samsung drops out of top 5 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A wearable fitness band made by Xiaomi Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
At the start of the year, Xiaomi took the wearables crown from Fitbit. In Q2 2017, the Chinese company isn’t letting go, and its two biggest competitors also maintained their close positions: Apple in second and Fitbit in third. (Until 2017, Fitbit was first every single quarter.) Mobile companies shipped a total of 26.3 million wearables worldwide last quarter. That number is up 10.3 percent from the 23.8 million units shipped in Q2 2016. The latest figures come from IDC, which found that all five of the top companies managed to ship at least a million units. Samsung is notably missing from the list: As you can see above, Xiaomi gained 0.4 percentage points, thanks to shipping 400,000 more units. IDC noted that the company’s expertise in driving low-cost devices remains unmatched, with the Mi Band lineup being the most popular.
Apple saw the biggest growth year-over-year, up 3.4 points, thanks to shipping an additional 1.1 million units. The Apple Watch Series 1 and Series 2 are now mature products, and the fact the company is still selling more of them ahead of the expected Watch Series 3 debut this quarter bodes well.
Fitbit’s market share meanwhile dropped 11.1 percentage points (from 24.1 percent to 12.9 percent), as the company shipped 2.3 million fewer devices (but still 3.4 million total). The company is in a period of transition with the debut of its first smartwatch.
Garmin slipped 1.0 points to 5.4 percent, while Fossil jumped 2.6 points to 4.0 percent. Both are a far cry from the double-digit percentage shares of their competitors.
Samsung dropped out of the top five this past quarter. The company yesterday unveiled a new smartwatch, fitness tracker, and earbuds at IFA 2017, so it will likely make a comeback next quarter. Still, while the South Korean company dominates smartphones , it has not been able to replicate that track record in wearables.
“Market growth favored new and emerging products in the second quarter,” IDC research manager Ramon Llamas said in a statement. “Smartwatches recorded double-digit year-over-year growth, with much of that increase attributable to a growing number of models aimed at specific market segments, like the fashion-conscious and outdoor enthusiasts in addition to the technophile crowd, lower price points, and a slowly warming reception from consumers and enterprise users alike. Factor in how smartwatches are taking steps to become standalone devices, and more applications are becoming available, and the smartwatch slowly becomes a more suitable mass market product. Meanwhile, we also saw triple-digit growth from clothing and earwear.” The wearables market remains very small, and companies are still trying to figure out where it’s headed. Vendors are pushing a wide variety of offerings, from fashion accessories to smartphone replacements. The huge amount of data collected behind the scenes is what gives the category immense potential, but is also why consumers remain cautious.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
