Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Duolingo launches Tinycards memory-boosting app on Android Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Duolingo's Tinycards app (iOS version) Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Duolingo , the heavily funded startup best known for its range of online language-learning courses, has launched its standalone memorization app on Android.
The Pittsburgh-based company first introduced its Tinycards app to iOS last summer, but now the company is making the app available to millions more people with the Android launch.
Tinycards is essentially a flashcard app that uses spaced repetition to help users memorize things. Yes, this could be a language — Duolingo’s raison d’être — but it could equally be the periodic table or muscles of the body. Users can choose from existing flashcard decks or create their own.
Above: Tinycards Founded in 2011, Duolingo has emerged as one of the leading online learning platforms, though with a specific focus on language — it uses gamification to help people read, listen to, and speak more than 20 languages. The company has raised north of $100 million in funding and is now valued at $700 million, with backing from big-name VC firms such as Google Capital. It now claims more than 200 million users globally.
Available through the web and mobile app, Tinycards is the first standalone app released by Duolingo, and the company said that since the app’s inception more than 200,000 flashcard decks have been created, covering everything from art history and anatomy to geography and Pokémon.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
