Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple schedules iPhone 8 event for September 12 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Apple chief executive Tim Cook onstage at Apple's event in San Francisco on September 7, 2016.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Apple’s iPhone 8 will be unveiled on September 12. The company today sent out invites to the event, which starts at 10:00 a.m. Pacific and will be held in the Steve Jobs Theater on the new Apple Park campus in Cupertino. “Let’s meet at our place,” reads the invitation to press. This will be Apple’s sixth consecutive product event held in September since the introduction of the iPhone 5 in 2012.
While the latest iPhone presentation is Apple’s most important event of the year, this one is particularly significant as this year marks the device’s 10-year anniversary (the original iPhone was unveiled in January 2007 and released in June 2007). The past year was also the first time Apple saw iPhone sales fall , and this push is expected to help counter that trend.
In terms of hardware, Apple is widely expected to introduce three new phones at the event (iPhone 7s, iPhone 7s Plus, and iPhone 8), Apple Watch Series 3 models with LTE support, and a new Apple TV with 4K support. The iPhone 8 is supposed to feature an OLED edge-to-edge display, wireless charging, and facial recognition — all features that exist in Android smartphones, but not in iOS devices.
In terms of software, Apple will share the release dates for iOS 11, macOS High Sierra, watchOS 4, and tvOS 11. The new operating system versions were all first announced at Apple’s WWDC conference in June and have been in beta testing ever since.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Apple will naturally also reveal when the first new iPhones will start to ship. The most likely date, based on past events, is September 22, 2017.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
