Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Oracle launches drag-and-drop AI for smart factories Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
The Oracle Internet of Things Cloud got new features today that give industrial companies the ability to implement pre-built AI algorithms. Using historic and live sensor data, the AI can do things like detect anomalies, predict when a machine will stop working, and help with supply chain management.
Previous applications of AI with Oracle’s IoT Cloud required technical coding knowledge. Now it’s drag and drop, Bhagat Nainani, global VP of IoT applications development at Oracle, told VentureBeat in an interview at Oracle headquarters in Redwood City.
“The machine learning, AI are fully built in. You don’t need to be an expert in data science and having done that for years. You can use pre-built in algorithms that have been optimized for an IoT stream that are being applied to each of these different applications,” he said.
The new features follow the launch of Oracle IoT applications in February. Oracle is one of a range of companies — including IBM and Microsoft — that now offer industrial IoT solutions augmented by AI for training, safety, or machine maintenance.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Also making its debut today is Digital Field Service, which was made to predict equipment failure and augmented reality to help remotely guide equipment repairs.
There’s also a new Digital Fleet Management service for real-time shipment tracking and supply chain management and Smart Connected Factory, which performs root cause analysis and incident detection in industrial settings.
Sensor tracking can be used internally at a company to put IoT data to practical use or sold as a product and service for other businesses.
“If a company is selling a pump or an HVAC or an elevator and they want to monitor those and offer a product as a service, the monitoring applications are focused on both the B2B and the B2C use cases for products,” VP of industry and IoT solutions Lionel Chocron told VentureBeat.
Some of the new services rely on what Oracle calls Digital Twins , which offer virtual representations of an object, equipment, or work environment. These are created with partners in the virtual world in order to supply VR for training and AR for guiding an employee remotely to conduct repairs or carry out tasks.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
