Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages AMD unveils high-end Ryzen Threadripper CPUs and Vega GPUs Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn AMD's latest Vega graphics chip.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Advanced Micro Devices unveiled new high-end processors and graphics chips for gamers at its Capsaicin event ahead of the Siggraph graphics show in Los Angeles.
The Sunnyvale, Calif.-based company said it is reinvigorating the high-end PC market with new Ryzen Threadripper central processing units (CPUs) and Vega graphics processing units (GPUs) aimed at gamers and content creators.
AMD unveiled the Radeon RX Vega family of GPUs, with availability starting on August 14. The three new graphics chips are based on the Vega GPU architecture. They include the high-end Radeon RX Vega 64 Liquid Cooled Edition, engineered with 64 compute units to be the most powerful Radeon ever built.
The lineup also includes the air-cooled Radeon RX Vega 64 and the Radeon RX Vega 56. The high-end Radeon RX Vega 64 Liquid Cooled Edition is available in a package with two games and other features for $700 while the air-cooled Radeon RX Vega 64 is available in a package for $600 or standalone for $500. The Radeon RX Vega 56 is available for $500 in a package or $400 standalone.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! AMD also had workstation versions of the graphics chips, including the Radeon Pro WX 9100 workstation graphics card. The latter delivers up to 12.3 TFLOPS of peak single-precision compute performance for the most demanding media and entertainment — and design and manufacturing workloads.
AMD also said its Radeon Pro SSG is the world’s first GPU to break the terabyte memory barrier with 2 terabytes of graphics memory, so it can handle smooth, native 8K video editing in real time.
AMD’s 12- and 16-core Ryzen Threadripper CPUs will be available on August 10, and the company also announced its 8-core Ryzen Threadripper CPU for August 31. The 16-core, 32-thread Ryzen Threadripper 1950X (base clock of 3.4 GHz and boost of 4.0 GHz) will sell for $1,000. The 12-core, 24-thread Ryzen Threadripper 1920X (base clock of 3.5 GHz and boost of 4.0 GHz) will sell for $800. And the 8-core, 16-thread Ryzen Threadripper 1900X (base clock of 3.8 GHz and boost of 4.0 GHz) will sell for $550 starting August 31.
The company also announced AMD Studios, focused on advancing the technology of entertainment — creating hardware and software solutions for the ever-increasing demands of modern storytelling.
And it introduced the new P47, a massively parallel computing platform in a 2-unit form factor designed to excel in a range of tasks, including graphics virtualization and machine intelligence. It operates at 1 petaflop and will be built by Inventec.
Motherboard designs are already available from top motherboard manufacturers including ASRock, ASUS, Gigabyte, and MSI.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
