Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release NIO U.S. Wins Automotive Security Hacking Challenge Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn LAS VEGAS–(BUSINESS WIRE)–July 31, 2017– The NIO U.S. team took home First Place at DEF CON 25 2017 Car Hacking Village, beating out 10 other teams in the third annual “ Capture The Flag ” (CTF) security event.
“We’re incredibly proud of what our team accomplished,” says Abe Chen, NIO U.S., Director of Product and Information Security, who led the four-person team. “The competition was fierce and it was down to the wire. But we had a blast and can’t thank the Car Hacking Village enough for the opportunity-and prizes.” At the annual security conferences in Las Vegas last week, researchers and hackers devised a series of challenges to understand the vulnerabilities of our connected world. One topic that has gained exposure over the last year has been security vulnerabilities in modern automobiles. The Car Hacking Village is comprised of both professionals and hobbyists working together to provide hands-on, interactive car-hacking skills. At CTF, participants work on a wide array of security challenges, covering WiFi, ECUs, over-the-air updates, encryption, infotainment, gateways, and remote hacking of connected vehicles.
The NIO U.S. “Robamierdas” team won the First Place Prize which included a new Ford F-150 pickup truck and the coveted lifetime DEF CON “Black Badge.” A Black Badge is one of the highest honors that DEF CON bestows in recognition of overall elite skills and outstanding contribution to the security community.
In March 2017, NIO U.S. announced its first production autonomous electric vehicles will be available in U.S. in 2020.
About NIO U.S.: NIO U.S. is a start-up based in the heart of Silicon Valley developing autonomous electric vehicles. NIO U.S. has hundreds of world-class experts from leading automotive and high tech companies. NIO U.S. received its Autonomous Vehicle Testing Permit by the California DMV and is currently testing on public roads in advance of the release of a Level-4 production vehicle in 2020. NIO U.S. is part of NIO Inc., with investors including Tencent, Temasek, Baidu Capital, Sequoia Capital, Lenovo, TPG and other world-renowned investment institutions.
MORE INFORMATION www.nio.io Twitter: @NIOSocial Facebook: NIOSocial Instagram: niosocial LinkedIn: NIO Snapchat: blueskycoming VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
