Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release Kony Received the Highest Scores for External Informational Apps and External Transactional Apps Use Cases in New Gartner Report Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn AUSTIN, Texas–(BUSINESS WIRE)–July 31, 2017– Kony, Inc.
, the leading enterprise mobility and digital applications company, announced that it has received the highest and second highest scores by Gartner for critical capabilities for Mobile App Development Platforms (MADP). Based on a five-point scale, Kony received the highest scores for External Informational Apps (4.24) and External Transactional Apps (4.24) use cases. Kony also received the second highest scores for Internal Complex Apps (4.24) and Internal Simple Apps (4.27) use cases in the July 2017 Gartner Critical Capabilities for MADP report, based on Gartner’s evaluation of 11 leading MADP vendor offerings.
Kony is also the only vendor recognized by Gartner as a Leader in mobile app development platform providers for five consecutive years, based on the June 12, 2017 Magic Quadrant for Mobile App Development Platforms report. As the largest provider focused purely on omni-channel, enterprise mobility and digital solutions, Kony serves more than 250 million mobile app users worldwide every day and manages more than 3.4 billion user sessions annually.
“Enabling and leveraging digital innovation has emerged as a board-level priority,” said Thomas E. Hogan, chairman and chief executive officer, Kony Inc. “We believe Kony’s scores in this comprehensive report is further validation of our ability to help organizations across all industries accelerate their digital journey.” The Gartner Critical Capabilities research outlines four major use cases for MADPs, details essential functional areas, and rates each vendor’s ability across the four scenarios. According to Gartner, “Application leaders must address a wide range of mobile app use cases across the enterprise. This research evaluates popular MADP offerings across four common use cases for external and internal app users.” In the report, Gartner states, “Mobile app development platforms (MADP) continue to evolve rapidly to support capabilities beyond just smartphones and tablet apps, including desktop and mobile web, and new conversational user interface (UI) channels.” According to Gartner, “This research complements Gartner’s ‘Magic Quadrant for Mobile App Development Platforms,’ but has a different emphasis. Magic Quadrants highlight a broad set of criteria that includes corporate viability, vision, marketing and geographic focus. Critical Capabilities research emphasizes product features, rather than the strategic qualities of the vendors. Magic Quadrants take a holistic view of a vendor to evaluate its commercial ability to gain market share, and assess how well that vendor understands the direction of the market it is in order to remain viable and relevant. Critical Capabilities research is specifically product-focused, looking at how features in the vendors’ currently shipping products can be applied to important use cases.” The Kony AppPlatform is an open and standards-based, integrated platform for mobile app development and beyond. It supports the entire application software development lifecycle (SDLC) and operations (DevOps) lifecycle, empowering enterprises to quickly design , build , deploy , and manage omni-channel app experiences. This full DevOps solution encompasses unique app user interface design and development tools ( Kony Visualizer ), powered by Kony’s mobile backend-as-a-service (MBaaS), API Management and backend application development offering ( Kony MobileFabric ). It extends fully to the Line of Business through the addition of Kony AppVantage , which allow customers to rapidly obtain secure, enterprise-grade apps as an end-to-end managed service.
Leading enterprises worldwide rely on Kony to realize the: Fastest development and deployment speed – 50-60% savings over custom native or web development; Richest interaction design and native user experiences – delight your customers with no-compromise, modern omni-channel experiences; Ease and speed of backend integration – reduce cost and effort of integrating to backend APIs, databases and legacy middleware by up to 75%; Automated protection and insights – ensure best-in-class security and analytics are enabled by default across your entire application; and Patented cross-platform API with guaranteed SLA – future-proof your app with the only SLA that guarantees support for OS upgrades within 30 days.
Download a complimentary copy of the Gartner Critical Capabilities Report Gartner, Critical Capabilities for Mobile App Development Platforms, 17 July 2017 Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
About Kony, Inc.
Kony is the fastest growing, cloud-based enterprise application and mobility solutions company, and a recognized industry leader among mobile application development platform ( MADP ) providers. Kony helps organizations of all sizes drive business ingenuity by rapidly transforming ideas into innovative and secure omni-channel applications. Built on the industry’s leading digital platform, Kony provides the most innovative and secure omni-channel applications, with exceptional user experience and app design. Kony’s cross-platform, low-code solution also empowers organizations to develop and manage their own apps to better engage with their customers, partners and employees. By seamlessly leveraging and connecting apps to all types of data sources and information, Kony also enables organizations to transform their business processes and gain valuable insight. Kony was named the first place winner in CTIA’s MobITs Awards in the Mobile Applications, Development & Platforms category and included on the Inc. 500|5000 list of fastest growing private companies in America.
For more information, please visit www.kony.com.
 Connect with Kony on Twitter , Facebook , and LinkedIn.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
