Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Exclusive Appy Pie launches its VR and AR app builder for startups and small businesses Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
VR and AR are on the tip of everyone’s tongues these days. Well, VR certainly is. AR still has a way to go before it becomes part of the mainstream psyche.
But barriers remain for marketers who want to take advantage of the latest trends in VR, 360-degree video, and AR. How — especially when you have a startup or a small business — do you get into this exciting and engaging new field without spending a very real fortune? Today, Appy Pie — producers of cloud-based mobile app builder software — has launched its VR and AR product to solve this exact problem.
The solution includes an easy-to-use design platform that allows you to create VR and AR apps that let you promote 360-degree still images, 360-degree video, and AR solutions. The AR apps are similar, in many ways, to those you’ve seen that overlay geographical data on the real world, showing points of interest, which makes them particularly useful for events and companies that have a brick-and-mortar presence.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! “To garner interest and enhance customer experience, it is crucial for small to medium-sized businesses and startups to take action with the various types of technology that are out there,” Abhinav Girdhar, CEO at Appy Pie, told me. “The main issue is that incorporating technology such as AR and VR is costly, which is why I wanted to feature it in our DIY app platform and allow users to have the same capabilities as bigger companies so they can leverage the competitive playing field.” By adding VR and AR features into its do-it-yourself platform, Appy Pie gives startups and smaller businesses a chance to add immersive experiences into their iOS and Android apps. And the platform is available to everyone, regardless of whether the marketer has coding experience or not.
“Businesses need to keep up with their competitors to stay relevant,” Girdhar said. “After companies saw how successful an app such as Pokémon Go was with its AR feature, they jumped on the opportunity to reach their customers better. It is imperative for SMBs to do the same.” The AR option features image recognition and tracking that gives app users the ability to scan and recognize everyday real-world objects, track positions, and augment the display of the object, while the VR solution provides users with panoramic and 360 videos for real-world experiences in a virtual world from anywhere and at any point in time.
App creators can add any 360-degree video, 3D models, images, and entire HTML snippets, either by uploading them to the Appy Pie platform or by inserting the link of a 360-degree YouTube video.
Appy Pie customers can start using the new AR and VR app builder here.
 The new features are built into the existing Appy Pie app maker, and pricing varies, with a basic option starting at $15 per month.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
