Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VentureBeat is hiring a Heartland Tech editor Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
We’re looking for an experienced editor to serve our readers with news and analysis around one of the most important issues of our time: the role of tech in creating — and destroying — jobs in America’s heartland.
The 2016 presidential election laid bare a chasm between technology companies and the rest of the country, namely the so-called flyover states and the region often derided as the Rust Belt. Yet new ecosystems of venture capital, innovation, and entrepreneurship are forming across the country. What can be done to bridge the divide between Silicon Valley and the heartland? As VentureBeat’s Heartland Tech editor, you’ll help define our daily coverage of this urgent issue. You’ll solicit guest posts from stakeholders and experts, find articles from other outlets to syndicate, and develop a small stable of regional freelancers to tell this story with a local perspective. Finally, you, too, will write regularly on the topic, weighing in with smart analysis and original reporting. Linked to this editorial mission, we’ll be kicking off an event series called BLUEPRINT, to be held in Reno in September.
We’re looking for someone who is passionate about innovation, understands major technology trends, and is intrigued by how technology impacts jobs and is affected by politics. Our ideal candidate will have five or more years journalistic experience. Location is unimportant; this is a contract position. Lastly, it would be great if you love to read VentureBeat. Seriously, though, you should already read VentureBeat! If you’re as excited as we are, please send a resume, desired compensation, and cover letter containing three links to your best clips to jobs@venturebeat.com.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
