Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Blizzard: Overwatch passes 30 million players on PC and consoles Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
One of 2016’s biggest games is still growing.
Blizzard Entertainment revealed today that Overwatch , its class-based team shooter, has surpassed 30 million players since launching in May of last year. The game has caught on with a huge audience on PC, Xbox One, and PlayStation 4 thanks to its dynamic combat and fascinating characters, and Blizzard has kept a huge chunk of that audience coming back by regularly updating the game. It also doesn’t hurt that the core mechanics of Overwatch are so strong that it earned GamesBeat’s Game of the Year for 2016.
Overwatch hit 30 million players after Blizzard announced 25 million for the game in January.
 That’s a healthy growth rate for a 12-month-old game.
https://twitter.com/PlayOverwatch/status/858002935820582912 Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Blizzard recently introduced a new, limited-time cooperative mode where players have to work together to take on waves of enemy robots. But the Uprising event didn’t just bring new gameplay to Overwatch — it also delivered new skins and other items for players to collect.
Beyond continuous updates, however, Blizzard is also growing Overwatch through esports. The shooter has caught on with a huge crowd in pro gaming, and the studio is feeding into that scene by organizing its own, official tournaments and leagues. At its BlizzCon fan event, for example, Blizzard has held the Overwatch World Cup where teams representing various countries competed for gold.
Overwatch League is the culmination of Blizzard’s esports efforts. This new competitive-gaming organization will have teams based in cities , which is just like traditional professional sports associations. This could help keep fans engaged with Overwatch as people begin rooting for their local team and get the urge to do some damage as Reaper themselves.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
