Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Acer’s G-Sync HDR 4K 144Hz gaming monitor means 2017 is the year to upgrade Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Acer already makes some of the best high-end gaming monitors , and now it’s planning to push its screens forward in 2017.
Above: Asus’s similar 4K G-Sync HDR 144Hz monitor.
The company revealed the new Predator X27 yesterday. This is a 27-inch 4K display that features a refresh rate of 144Hz as well as G-Sync HDR. That short spec list should make this one of the most impressive-looking monitors you can buy for gaming. With the X27, Acer joins Asus and its ROG Swift PG27UQ in making 2017 one of the best years yet for upgrading your monitor.
While Acer and Asus dropped multiple gorgeous-looking 4K G-Sync displays last year, they were missing some key features. Most notably, HDR and 144Hz are huge additions in the latest models. In my opinion, the wider color gamut and faster refresh rate are more important than 4K in some cases. And by getting those features all packed into one monitor, Acer is doing a lot more to justify the inevitably high price of the X27.
In January at the Consumer Electronics Show, Acer revealed its plans for a 4K monitor running at 144Hz. But now it’s adding G-Sync with the X27. This means that the company’s newest display is capable of an ultra-high resolution while simultaneously refreshing 144 times per second. G-Sync ensures that screen tearing is at a minimum even if your processor is struggling to render 4K scenes at 144 frames per second. And finally, HDR will enable high-dynamic-range colors and illumination on Acer’s newest panel.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Both the Acer and Asus monitors are due out later this year, but neither company has announced a price or release date. But with all of this technology, you should probably expect to spend roughly a mortgage payment or more to get one of these futuristic displays.
But the high-end gaming monitors were already more than $1,000 last year, and you were missing out on features like HDR that are going to make an immediate and significant impact on picture quality. So while the amount of money you’re probably going to have to pay isn’t going to change, buying a monitor in 2017 will get you a noticeably better return on that investment.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
