Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Cloudera ends first day of trading with $2.3 billion market cap, 44% lower than 2014 valuation Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Cloudera at the New York Stock Exchange.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Open source big data company Cloudera is now, finally, a public company. Today the company traded for the first time on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) , after filing to go public last month.
In 2014, when Intel made a major investment in Cloudera, the latter was reported to boast a $4.1 billion valuation. Other investors include Greylock Partners and Accel Partners.
Today, after the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) closed, the company’s stock price settled at $18.10 — up 1.7 percent from today’s $17.80 opening price — giving the company a $2.3 billion market cap.
In other words, investors think the company is worth a bit more than half what other investors did three years back, when the company was bringing in considerably less revenue.
The 9-year-old company originally focused on outdoing startups in the then-burgeoning big data category — particularly emphasizing the Hadoop collection of open-source software for storing and processing lots of different kinds of data — and has increasingly targeted database software and cloud service providers. Competitors include Amazon Web Services (AWS), Databricks, Hortonworks, IBM, MapR, Microsoft, Oracle, and among others.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
