Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Rocket League is about family now — ‘The Fate of the Furious’ DLC pack is coming soon Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
I live my Rocket League matches a quarter mile at a time, and if you’re a cop, you have to tell me.
Developer Psyonix is adding the Ice Charger vehicle that Vin Diesel’s character Dom Toretto drives in the upcoming film The Fate of the Furious to Rocket League. For $2, you can grab the car along with a variety of custom items as part of the The Fate of the Furious downloadable content pack that hits the megapopular car-soccer game April 4. This is the latest brand tie-in add-on for Rocket League, which also features cars related to Batman and Back to the Future.
Psyonix has partnered with both Universal Pictures and Dodge for this sponsored content. Universal is the studio responsible for the series of Fast and Furious action films, and Dodge makes Toretto’s signature muscle car.
No word on whether or not driving around in this car in Rocket League will cause The Rock or Jason Statham to hunt you down, but I’d keep your head on a swivel.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
