Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Hearthstone: Journey to Un’Goro is launching on April 6 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Welcome ... to Un'Goro Crater.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Hearthstone’s dinosaurs are just a few stomps away.
Blizzard announced today that the next expansion for its digital card game behemoth, Journey to Un’Goro, is launching on April 6 for PC and mobile. The set will add 135 cards with a primeval theme, unleashing dinosaur-like creatures to Hearthstone.
In 2016, Hearthstone earned $394.6 million in revenue, according to research firm SuperData.
 Expansions give players a reason to buy new card packs, and they have a huge impact on the game. New cards open up new strategies, changing the kinds of decks that players use against each other.
This expansion also brings the start of the Year of the Mammoth. This rotation in the standard cycle removes cards from older sets from ineligibility in many of Hearthstone’s competitive modes. This will have just as much of an impact on deck-building strategies.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Journey to Un’Goro introduces new mechanics. Quest cards are new spells that you can play on your first turn. They give you a difficult task, but fulfilling it during the game nets you a big reward.
Above: Give me a quest! Meanwhile, the Adapt mechanic allows you to choose buffs for your minions. Like the Discover mechanic, you can pick one of three random bonuses.
Above: Flexible! Journey to Un’Goro is the first of three Hearthstone expansions Blizzard has planned for the year.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
