Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Chinese mobile giant Huawei reports slowest annual growth since 2011 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Huawei P9 Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
( Reuters ) — Chinese telecom equipment and smartphone maker Huawei Technologies said on Friday that net profit edged up just 0.4 percent last year, its slowest annual growth since 2011.
Huawei, the world’s No. 3 smartphone maker behind Apple Inc and Samsung Electronics Co Ltd, said net profit rose to 37.1 billion yuan ($5.3 billion).
Strong competition in China’s smartphone market from previously little-known domestic rivals OPPO and Vivo cost Huawei its top spot as the biggest vendor in the domestic market last year.
Global revenue climbed 32 percent to 521.6 billion yuan, slightly slower than 35 percent growth a year earlier.
Revenue from its consumer business group rose 44 percent to 179.8 billion yuan ($26 billion), but lagging the company’s forecast of $30 billion made a year ago.
It shipped 139 million phones last year, up 29 percent last year compared with a flat global smartphone market. That just missed an earlier target of 140 million.
Revenue from its carrier business group, which competes with Sweden’s Ericsson for the top spot globally for telecommunication equipment, rose 24 percent to 290.6 billion yuan thanks to demand for 4G communications equipment.
Revenue from its enterprise business group climbed 47 percent to 40.7 billion yuan. Spending on research and development reached 76.4 billion yuan.
(Reporting by Sijia Jiang; Editing by Anne Marie Roantree and Edwina Gibbs) VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
