Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages GamesBeat weekly roundup: Our first look at Destiny 2 and Palmer Lucky leaves Facebook Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Destiny 2.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Welcome to another GamesBeat weekly roundup! This time, we reviewed Persona 5, the classic Planescape: Torment is getting a remaster, and we looked back on the 15 best games available for the Oculus Rift after its first year.
Enjoy, and have a great weekend! Pieces of flair and opinion The DeanBeat: Why I do what I do Tech pioneer Tony Parisi wants VR to change the world Top 15 games for Oculus Rift after its first year Can Switch pull off a mid-cycle upgrade better than PS4 Pro or Xbox One Scorpio? GamesBeat Decides Here’s a Zelda player soaring over most of Hyrule without ever touching the ground Game pioneers Jason Rubin and Ted Price discuss the lessons of early VR games Above: Thimbleweed Park is a retro adventure game.
News Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Game pioneer Brenda Romero receives special award from U.K.’s Oscars Ex-Samsung exec Mihai Pohontu takes CEO job at Romania’s Amber game studio Crowfall shows how its players will create their own lands and towns Playerunknown’s Battlegrounds tops King of the Kill as Steam’s latest flavor of the month Oculus VR founder Palmer Luckey leaves Facebook Thimbleweed Park point-and-click adventure game launches for Xbox One and PC Destiny 2 is coming to PC: Here’s the first trailer Gwent: The Witcher Card Game is getting a beta weekend on PlayStation 4 ADVR unveils AR and VR discovery marketing platform Call of Duty studio heads to speak on inspiring creativity at GamesBeat Summit 2017 AOC introduces a more affordable 32-inch 4K monitor for gaming The Overwatch World Cup returns in 2017 Twitch starts streaming 1080p video at 60 frames per second Xbox One’s big Beam broadcasting update starts rolling out Heroes of the Storm’s 2.0 update will add Overwatch’s loot system Fallout Shelter is now available on Steam and gets new quests High Fidelity uses Limitless VR to enable users to create 3D avatars Windows 10 Creators Update comes with Game Mode and Beam gameplay broadcasting Minecraft gets Mighty Morphin’ Power Rangers skins — including its real heroes, Bulk and Skull Intel will depend on rivals like ARM for its contract chip manufacturing business Planescape: Torment gets an Enhanced Edition from the remaster masters at Beamdog Twitch’s digital games and downloadable content store is coming soon NHL 17 hits EA Access vault just in time for the playoffs Guitar Godz VR launches Kickstarter campaign to be Rock Band’s virtual reality rival Intel puts two chips in a single package more efficiently Warframe hits a Steam record of concurrent users following Octavia’s Anthem’s release Intel: Moore’s Law isn’t slowing down Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare calls in Method Man for a rap attack in multiplayer SuperData: Digital sales continue to grow thanks to consoles, PC, and mobile Razer’s new Blade Pro gaming laptop gets updated display and faster memory 2K launches Faster, Baby! DLC for Mafia III and free game demo Lego City Undercover is the latest game to struggle with Nintendo Switch’s publishing costs Blizzard announces Hearthstone Global Games team rosters Bungie teases Destiny 2 with fiery image Hearthstone is giving away free cards as it preps for Journey of Un’Goro’s launch HTC will be VR partner for Steven Spielberg’s ‘Ready Player One’ film HTC adds 30 more companies to its virtual reality accelerator Blizzard unveils StarCraft: Remastered for nostalgic fans Splatoon 2 uses about 150MB of mobile data per hour while tethering Mobile and social Mobile app Memoji turns your face into an emoji SuperAwesome lets brands decipher what content captures kids’ attention Space Ape Games’ Fastlane: Road to Revenge will star 20 YouTube influencers Hitcents launches NBA Life mobile game to celebrate a star’s lifestyle Koukoi Games to make Ferdinand movie’s mobile game Cut the Rope creator unveils C.A.T.S. vehicle combat game Club Penguin moves its Island to where kids are: mobile Mobike strikes Tencent deal to bring bike-sharing to WeChat users in China Pirates of the Caribbean plunders the mobile game-film tie-in with Tides of War SpinMagic lets you draw on augmented reality images on your iPhone Vainglory’s spring championships to take place at London’s O2 Above: Turn-based combat at its finest in Persona.
Reviews, previews, and interviews Persona 5 knows it’s one of the most special role-playing games of all time My Arcade’s wireless NES Classic controller is excellent Toast’s PlayStation 4 Pro wood paneling is a time-warp to the Atari 2600 Hands-on with the Samsung Gear VR controller Ultigesture lets you control toy cars with a wave of your hand Watch us slither along on Switch’s Snake Pass Watch how Has Been Heroes’ zany lane-based combat works Hands-on with Wilson’s Heart psychological thriller for the Oculus Rift GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
