Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Survios announces Sprint Vector VR game that will tire you out Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Sprint Vector gets you to move your arms in VR to make your character run.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Virtual reality firm Survios unveiled Sprint Vector, a new virtual reality game with an innovative system for moving a character in VR.
In the game, you swing your arms to make your character run in the 360-degree VR world. It’s Survios’ second game. Like its predecessor Raw Data, it keeps you active and is meant to give you an adrenaline rush.
The game will be available to demo at this week’s Game Developers Conference in San Francisco.
Survios focused on making the controls intuitive, fun, and physically comfortable for most people to play. Sprint Vector is an adrenaline platformer that merges the physical thrill of high-octane athletic competition with the unhinged energy of zany interactive game shows, all powered by a proprietary motion system that allows for a new level of immersion.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! “Survios is always creating unique solutions to tackle VR’s biggest challenges,” said James Iliff, Survios’ chief creative officer and cofounder, in a statement. “With Sprint Vector, we’ve taken one of the biggest challenges in VR right now—realistic motion—and created a smooth, intelligent locomotion system that not only feels comfortable, but can also read the player’s intentions.” Above: Raw Data from Survios is now on the Oculus Touch.
Sprint Vector pits players in head-to-head races across interdimensional courses designed to challenge them both physically and mentally. Racing downhill at 300 miles per hour, scaling up skyscraper-height walls, diving headfirst off a 1,000-foot tower: the fluid locomotion system utilizes simple, realistic running and climbing motions to enable players to actually feel the sensations of superhuman speed and daring heights. Meanwhile, announcers cheer them on to amp up the spirit of competition.
The announcement of Sprint Vector and the expansion of Raw Data to Oculus Rift comes on the heels of Survios raising an additional $50 million in funding across two financing rounds. Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (MGM) led one strategic financing round, with chairman and CEO Gary Barber joining Survios’ board. In addition, a prior financing round was led by Lux Capital with participation from Shasta Ventures, Danhua Capital, Shanda Holdings, Felicis Ventures and Dentsu Ventures.
Survios was founded in 2013.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
