Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Digit’s new feature helps put away money to pay your rent and phone bills Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Financial service startup Digit can help you pay your bills by automatically extracting money from your checking account and diverting it into a special savings account. Leveraging machine intelligence, the company wants to help customers be smarter with their money by putting it where it needs to go. To make that happen, Digit has just launched a feature aptly called Bills that will automatically file away funds for recurring expenses like rent and phone bills.
Within Digit, users will select a new bill they wish to set money aside for, specifying the amount and the due date. When the bill is paid, any remaining money will be automatically remitted back into your checking account. If there are any issues, Digit will send you a message notifying you of the problem.
Bills uses an updated algorithm created by the company that is specifically geared toward helping ensure there’s enough money allocated for expenses. That means even though you may have goals you wish to save for or things you want to buy, the basics — like rent, phone bills, insurance, and gas and electric bills — will receive top priority.
Though many try to maintain a general savings account, it doesn’t ensure that they’ll have enough to cover monthly expenses because the money isn’t clearly allocated. Digit’s pseudo sub-accounts mean you can designate funds to make sure you’re not dipping into rent money to pay for trips or buy unnecessary shopping items.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Bills that can be targeted include rent, car payments, student loans, and more. Of course there’s also a goal-oriented feature which is another savings mechanism that lets you put away money for luxury expenses like vacations and weddings. This feature is similar to Bills — both are a part of a service called Goalmoji. You can specify the amount and due date and also include an emoji. Digit will then send you updates as you move closer to achieving that goal.
This is the company’s latest effort to make you think smarter about where your money is going. Previously, it launched a program around how to save your tax refund , as well as launching a premium service that rewards you for saving money that’s been put aside for at least three months.
Updated as of 9:45 a.m. Pacific on Tuesday: Clarified that Digit’s Bills and Goals features are part of Goalmoji.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
