Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts 2023 Innovator of the Year: As AI models are released into the wild, Sharon Li wants to ensure they’re safe Li’s research could prevent AI models from failing catastrophically when they encounter unfamiliar scenarios.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Sara Stathas Sharon Li is MIT Technology Review’s 2023 Innovator of the Year. Meet the rest of this year's Innovators Under 35.
As we launch AI systems from the lab into the real world, we need to be prepared for these systems to break in surprising and catastrophic ways. It’s already happening. Last year, for example, a chess-playing robot arm in Moscow fractured the finger of a seven-year-old boy. The robot grabbed the boy’s finger as he was moving a chess piece and let go only after nearby adults managed to pry open its claws.
This did not happen because the robot was programmed to do harm. It was because the robot was overly confident that the boy’s finger was a chess piece.
The incident is a classic example of something Sharon Li, 32, wants to prevent. Li, an assistant professor at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, is a pioneer in an AI safety feature called out-of-distribution (OOD) detection. This feature, she says, helps AI models determine when they should abstain from action if faced with something they weren’t trained on.
Li developed one of the first algorithms on out-of-distribution detection for deep neural networks. Google has since set up a dedicated team to integrate OOD detection into its products. Last year, Li’s theoretical analysis of OOD detection was chosen from over 10,000 submissions as an outstanding paper by NeurIPS, one of the most prestigious AI conferences.
We’re currently in an AI gold rush, and tech companies are racing to release their AI models. But most of today’s models are trained to identify specific things and often fail when they encounter the unfamiliar scenarios typical of the messy, unpredictable real world. Their inability to reliably understand what they “know” and what they don’t “know” is the weakness behind many AI disasters.
Li’s work calls on the AI community to rethink its approach to training. “A lot of the classic approaches that have been in place over the last 50 years are actually safety unaware,” she says.
Her approach embraces uncertainty by using machine learning to detect unknown data out in the world and design AI models to adjust to it on the fly. Out-of-distribution detection could help prevent accidents when autonomous cars run into unfamiliar objects on the road, or make medical AI systems more useful in finding a new disease.
“In all those situations, what we really need [is a] safety-aware machine learning model that’s able to identify what it doesn’t know,” says Li.
This approach could also aid today’s buzziest AI technology, large language models such as ChatGPT. These models are often confident liars, presenting falsehoods as facts. This is where OOD detection could help. Say a person asks a chatbot a question it doesn’t have an answer to in its training data. Instead of making something up, an AI model using OOD detection would decline to answer.
Related Story Tips for aspiring innovators on trying, failing, and the future of AI.
Li’s research tackles one of the most fundamental questions in machine learning, says John Hopcroft, a professor at Cornell University, who was her PhD advisor.
Her work has also seen a surge of interest from other researchers. “What she is doing is getting other researchers to work,” says Hopcroft, who adds that she’s “basically created one of the subfields” of AI safety research.
Now, Li is seeking a deeper understanding of the safety risks relating to large AI models, which are powering all kinds of new online applications and products. She hopes that by making the models underlying these products safer, we’ll be better able to mitigate AI’s risks.
“The ultimate goal is to ensure trustworthy, safe machine learning,” she says.
Sharon Li is one of MIT Technology Review’s 2023 Innovators Under 35.
Meet the rest of this year’s honorees.
hide by Melissa Heikkilä Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window This story was part of our September/October 2023 issue.
Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 Zeyi Yang How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Deep Dive Artificial intelligence This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI The tool, called Nightshade, messes up training data in ways that could cause serious damage to image-generating AI models.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 With just a few minutes of sample video and $1,000, brands never have to stop selling their products.
By Zeyi Yang archive page Driving companywide efficiencies with AI Advanced AI and ML capabilities revolutionize how administrative and operations tasks are done.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page Rogue superintelligence and merging with machines: Inside the mind of OpenAI’s chief scientist An exclusive conversation with Ilya Sutskever on his fears for the future of AI and why they’ve made him change the focus of his life’s work.
By Will Douglas Heaven archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
