Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages The Elder Scrolls Online will finally visit the lands of Morrowind this June Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Bethesda is bringing one of its most popular settings into its massively multiplayer online role-playing game, and I’m sure that makes you want to scream with joy.
The Elder Scrolls Online : Morrowind will introduce new content to MMO when it launches for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and PC on June 6. As the name implies, this add-on will take players back to the locations the series first explored in The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind, and publisher Bethesda is promising that the expansion maintains all the points of interest that fans remember from that game. This update will also include the new Warden class, an original narrative, a new player-versus-player mode, and more. The Morrowind expansion will sell for $40 as an upgrade, but you can buy it with the core game for $60 if you don’t already own it. Of course, you can also get a physical Collector’s Edition for $100.
Above: Bears? See, this is why wizard colleges in Tamriel should give instructors assault rifles.
Bethesda originally released The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind for the Xbox and PC in 2002. It is a 3D open-world role-playing adventure, and it established a foundation that later led to some of the publisher’s megahits like Oblivion, Skyrim, and Fallout 3 and Fallout 4. Morrowind takes place on the island of Vvardenfell, which differs from the European-inspired lands of that fans might remember from regions like Skyrim or Cyrodiil. Instead, Vvardenfell feels more like a remix of Japan and civilizations from the Middle-East.
The Morrowind expansion for Elder Scrolls Online will likewise take place on Vvardenfell, and this gives Bethesda a chance to present some variety to long-time players of the game. This is also one of the biggest add-ons ever for the MMO, which first debuted in 2014 on PC. That has the potential to please loyal fans while simultaneously attracting people who have a deep love for Morrowind — since this is the closest we’re probably going to get to a remaster of The Elder Scrolls III.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
