Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Hoplon kicks off open beta for car combat title Heavy Metal Machines Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Hoplon's Heavy Metal Machines Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Hoplon has launched the open beta for its rock-and-roll racing game Heavy Metal Machines on the PC.
The title is a hard rock vehicular action combat multiplayer game, and it’s kind of a cross between Mad Max and a multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA) game.
The game from Florianópolis, Brazil-based Hoplon takes place in a post-apocalyptic landscape ravaged by its own inhabitants. Society has been reforged through metal and madness. A new breed of gladiators engages in visceral vehicular combat. The rules are simple: two teams enter, one team leaves. The four-player team that manages to decimate the enemy’s base first wins.
Above: Heavy Metal Machines is a MOBA-like car combat game.
The open beta introduces a number of significant upgrades, including an all new character named Photon, a tech-savvy character who provides support.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The beta also ha a new player game guide, voice chat, and Russian localization. The title comes from Hoplon, which was founded in 2000 and worked in the past on titles like APB: Reloaded. The company has 100 employees.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=usKQHN3RKUc GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
