Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple iPhone sales rise 5% to 78.3 million, but iPad and Mac sales are still down Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Apple logo on the side of the company's new retail store in downtown San Francisco, Calif. on May 21, 2016.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Hey, look: a new iPhone sales record.
Apple sold roughly 78.3 million iPhones, 13.1 million iPads, and 5.4 million Macs in the first quarter of 2017 , which includes holiday sales — that’s up from the 74.5 million iPhones it sold in Q1 2016 , and down from 21.4 million iPads and 5.5 million Macs it sold that same quarter.
Nearly 10 years since the first iPhone’s release, way back in 2007, investors are waiting for something big from Apple, as my colleague Chris O’Brien pointed out earlier today. But for now overeager investors must settle for the iPhone 7, which managed to best analyst expectations by about 1.3 million iPhones.
Apple’s “Services” revenue, which includes money from Apple Music subscriptions, is also up this year from last, this time by a significant margin: 18 percent. However, Apple’s mysterious “Other” revenue, which includes Apple Watch and TV sales, is down by about 7.5 percent.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! More : Apple returns to revenue growth in Q1 2017 with $17.8 billion profit.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
