Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release New Sector 5 Chromebooks Include Free Microsoft 365 Suite Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn ALEXANDRIA, Va.–(BUSINESS WIRE)–January 31, 2017– The following was issued by Sector 5, Inc.
(OTCQB: SFIV): Chromebooks had traditionally been designed to run Google Chrome apps only. Now, the new Sector 5 E1 and E2 Chromebooks will run Android Apps and have access to the Google Play Store. In addition, Google has confirmed that the Sector 5 E1 Chromebook will receive Android support.
 Users will be able download Skype and Microsoft Office apps or play games like Minecraft, Hearthstone or Clash of Clans.
Roger McKeague, Sector 5 CEO stated, “As Chromebooks continue to gain widespread popularity as cost-effective laptops, one concern was whether the app ecosystem was robust enough. Adding Android apps and the Google Play Store brilliantly answers this. We have just extended our Google Chrome OS Brand Features and Support Agreement for another 2 years.” To read more about the E1 Chromebook click here.
About Sector 5 Sector 5, Inc. (OTCQB: SFIV), is a Proud American Corporation, that sells, manufactures and develops new innovative consumer electronics under Sector 5 and other brands. The Company markets its partnership with Google approved Chromebooks to educational organizations, other B2B and B2C sales channels, with retail sales on Amazon. It is in development of several new products to serve the educational, business and retail markets. Follow the company on www.twitter.com/sectorfiveinc and www.facebook.com/sect5 and find further information at www.sector-five.com.
For Sector 5’s Forward Looking Statements, click here.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
