Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages iPad in free fall after sales plunged 22% in Q1 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Apple Pencil and the 9.7-inch iPad Pro.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
If anyone at Apple has any bright ideas about how to save the iPad, now is the time to speak up.
In the earnings for the first quarter of 2017 announced today, Apple overall reported a strong quarter that would have been even better if it had not been sucker punched by the iPad.
The company said it sold 13.1 million iPads , down 22 percent from the 16.1 million it sold during the holiday season last year. iPad revenue was $5.5 billion, down 19 percent from $7.1 billion a year ago.
Last year, the iPad was comfortably Apple’s No. 2 product after the iPhone. Now, it’s fourth, behind the iPhone, Macs, and Services — even the “Others” category (Beats, Apple Watch, Apple TV) has almost closed the gap.
The gathering gloom over the iPad deepens further when you consider that three years ago during the holiday period, Apple sold 26 million of them.
What may be most troubling for Apple is this shocking plunge comes after a sustained push that included rolling out a larger iPad Pro and the Pencil (not a stylus!) to broaden its appeal, particularly for business users. Apple has signed several big partnerships with companies like IBM and Cisco Systems. None of this apparently has translated into helping the apple of Steve Jobs’ eye rediscover its momentum.
On a call with analysts and reporters, CFO Luca Maestri insisted that things were not as bad as they seemed. He said Apple sold more iPads in Q1 than it had projected internally. He also pointed to double-digit growth of iPad sales in China and India. And he said Apple has 85 percent market share among tablets that cost more than $200.
“iPad is incredibly successful,” he said.
On the same call, CEO Tim Cook insisted the iPad still had a bright future, and blamed part of the poor showing on a component shortage caused in part by an underestimation of demand. He also repeated his belief that even if unit sales are sluggish, the universe of iPad owners and users continues to grow, a base the company can still leverage for sales of apps and other services.
“I still feel very optimistic about where we can take the product,” he said. “When we look at the number of people buying iPads for the first time … The customer satisfaction for the iPad Pro is 99 percent. It’s stunning. We are still currently in this [supply] shortage issue now. And I’m not projecting to get out of that totally during the quarter. So it will dampen this quarter somewhat. Beyond the 90-day clock, I’m very bullish on iPad. … If I zoom out of the 90-day clock and look at it [more broadly], we’ve got some exciting things coming.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
