Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Drake is the most-streamed artist on Spotify for the second year in a row Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Drake.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Spotify today unveiled data on the most popular music on Spotify for 2016. At the top of the charts is Drake, just like last year. This time around he had 4.7 billion streams. Plus, Drake was the most-streamed male artist on Spotify.
“Drake has been unstoppable this year — he’s a true global superstar,” Stefan Blom, Spotify’s chief content and strategy officer, is quoted as saying in a blog post.
 “With the top album and the top song this year, as well as his successful Summer Sixteen tour, Drake continues to engage his fans in a way that only Drake can; it’s no surprise he is dominating the music industry.” This year, Justin Bieber, Rihanna, Twenty One Pilots, and Kanye West trailed the Canadian rapper, in that order, according to Spotify’s data.
Not surprisingly, Views was the most-streamed album of the year, Spotify said, with more than 2.45 million streams.
The top song of the year was Drake’s “One Dance,” feat. WizKid and Kyla. That was also Spotify’s top breakup song of 2016.
Before Drake, in 2014, there was Ed Sheeran.
The irony of Drake’s ongoing success on Spotify is that he’s been promoting Apple Music, which is presumably Spotify’s top rival. Spotify has more than 100 million monthly active users and more than 40 million paying subscribers, while Apple Music has more than 17 million subscribers.
Whether having the biggest music interest remain the same for two years straight is a good thing or not is hard to say. But at least Spotify is demonstrating that it’s willing to be transparent about consumption, and that counts for something.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
