Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages PS Plus games December 2016: Invisible, Inc., VVVVVV, and more Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Sony is making one of 2015’s quietest hits part of its PlayStation Plus offerings at no extra charge.
For December, PlayStation-system owners who subscribe to the PS Plus service will get a number of additions to that program’s Instant Games Library feature. Plus costs $10 per month or $60 per year, and it enables online multiplayer on PS4 in addition to giving away a list of games each month. And as long as players maintain their PS Plus subscription, they will continue to own these games. Subscribers can get these games at no additional cost by finding the PS Plus tab in the PlayStation Store.
For December, as is usual, Sony has a handful of games for the PlayStation 4, PlayStation 3, and Vita devices. Let’s take a look at ’em.
PlayStation 4 Invisible, Inc.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! This turn-based stealth game is one of 2015’s best games. It has players infiltrating procedurally generated levels using a variety of characters that have different espionage-related capabilities. Developer Klei built the game to empower players to tackle the challenges in any number of ways, and discovering creative solutions to evade danger is one of the reasons I keep going back to Invisible, Inc. And now no PS Plus subscriber has an excuse to miss out.
Stories: Path of Destinies This adventure features hack-‘n’-slash gameplay and dungeon crawling in a colorful fantasy world. The combat enables you to take on goblins and werewolves, but Stories is more than just sword-based action. It also has a world that will change depending on the actions you take and the choices you pursue with its characters.
PlayStation 3 Hyper Void Hyper Void is a modern take on the classic space-shooter. Players must guide their ship through a wormhole while taking on waves of incoming enemies. If that sounds familiar, that’s because Hyper Void borrows heavily from Tempest while upgrading the visuals.
Tiny Troopers Joint Ops Tiny Troopers is arcade shooter reminiscent of retro games like Smash TV. With a variety of weapons, players must eliminate infantry, tanks, and other opposing forces.
PS Vita Color Guardians A challenging platformer that features a color-shifting mechanic. The game has you controlling a Guardian who must change their color to absorb a rainbow of different obstacles. It’s a simple idea that seems like it could get difficult quickly.
VVVVVV Finally, Vita PS Plus members are getting the VVVVVV platformer from developer Terry Cavanagh, who is best known for Super Hexagon. VVVVVV features simple, pre-NES-era visuals and a core gameplay element where players can switch gravity at will. This enables you to navigate puzzles that are otherwise impossible to overcome with basic running and jumping.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
