Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages AWS launches Amazon Athena service for querying data stored in S3 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn AWS chief executive Andy Jassy introduces Amazon Athena at the AWS re:Invent conference in Las Vegas on November 30, 2016.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
At its annual re:Invent user conference in Las Vegas today, public cloud market leader Amazon Web Services (AWS) announced the launch of Amazon Athena, a new tool for running queries on data that’s stored in AWS’ widely used S3 cloud storage service.
People can use the standard Structured Query Language (SQL) with the service and don’t need to worry about setting up the infrastructure for it.
AWS doesn’t believe Athema will overlap with the querying tools that are available through its EMR (Elastic Map Reduce) service and its Redshift data warehousing service, AWS chief executive Andy Jassy said during today’s keynote.
If anything, the service resembles BigQuery, the data querying service that’s available through Google’s public cloud. But in the past year or so Google has been repositioning BigQuery as a data warehousing service, which would put it on par with Redshift rather than let it continue to look distinctive.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! After Athena users query data, they’re able to visualize it using Amazon’s own QuickSight business intelligence (BI) service, or a different one, as long as they use AWS’ new Athena JDBC driver, AWS chief evangelist Jeff Barr wrote in a blog post.
The service is only available through two of AWS’ data center regions: US East (Northern Virginia) and US West (Oregon), Barr wrote. Athena costs $5 per TB of data that the service scans. Query results get stored in whichever S3 bucket you’d like, and that means additional charges for S3 use. More detail is here.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
