Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Samsung shines a light on 6 new C-Lab spin-out products, including a 360-degree wearable camcorder Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Samsung Ahead Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Samsung is spinning out six new projects from Creative Lab (C-Lab), an in-house program that offers employees the opportunity to work on ideas separate from their core functions at the company.
C-Lab has been operating for more than four years, but it was only at CES this year that Samsung first showcased some of the fruits of the program, which permits employees to take a year away from their regular post to work on their idea. In June, Samsung revealed that it was spinning out five new startups as standalone entities. These included one based around quirky smart belts and an ‘idea printer.’ And a few months back, another spinoff turned to Kickstarter to help fund a new smart shoe for golfers.
Now, Samsung is shining a light on the next wave of C-Lab spinoffs — some of which were demoed earlier this year — and which are now officially on the fast track to becoming real products.
Fitt360 The Fitt360 is a completely new reveal from Samsung, and it doesn’t appear to have been demoed at any point in the past. Samsung calls the Fitt360 a “360 degree camcorder” that is apparently worn as a headband and lets users record everything around them in all directions. Based on the first product photo, however, it doesn’t look as though it literally captures video in all directions. But it promises hands-free controls, and should cater well to the burgeoning virtual reality (VR) industry.
“In comparison to existing 360-degree cameras, which are large and inconvenient, Fitt360 is hands-free and easy to use, allowing an individual to become fully immersed in VR content,” Samsung says.
Above: Fitt360 ItsyWatch Smart watches may be in decline , but that isn’t stopping ItsyWatch from targeting kids with its smart habit-building wearable. In a nutshell, ItsyWatch strives to bring fun to otherwise mundane activities, such as teeth brushing, eating, and exercising. The on-screen characters give kids positive feedback, providing encouragement and “gamifying” everyday activities, while parents can also keep track of how their kids are getting on.
Above: Itsywatch Ahead Samsung gave a glimpse of this smart triangular device earlier this year. “Ahead” can be attached to any helmet via magnets, such as those worn by bikers and skiers, and gives the wearer hands-free access to their smartphone or other communications device, such as a walkie-talkie. It can also let users receive voice notifications and listen to music.
Above: Samsung Ahead Licon Licon taps the built-in camera on a smartphone to control connected devices around the home. Users snap a photo of any connected device, for example a home appliance, TV, vacuum cleaner, or kids’ toy, and the Licon app recognizes the device and opens an interface that lets the user control it. It’s designed to circumvent the need to navigate to product-specific apps by centralizing everything in a single app.
Above: Licon Hum on First demoed at SXSW earlier this year, Hum On is a mobile app that lets you make music by, well, humming. So, those who have zero musical aptitude but like to hum a tune can take things to the next level and convert their hums into musical notation. Gnarly.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wj1r9YJ6INA Waffle Waffle was also demoed at SXSW this year. It’s a social network built around doodles, and it lets users draw on friends’ virtual walls. If you can’t find the words to say something, why not scrawl a picture, right? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2U8c-7CnYrE It’s worth noting here that these are all still early-stage projects, and there is no indication when — or even if — they’ll reach the public market.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
