Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Hollywood studios team up with Jam City’s TinyCo on Family Guy game Halloween event Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Family Guy: The Quest for Stuff.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Family Guy: The Quest for Stuff has been one of the biggest hits in mobile gaming, maintaining its rankings in the top-grossing games charts since its launch in 2014. So it’s not surprising to see multiple companies get together to create a special limited-time Halloween event for fans in the game.
TinyCo , (which Jam City , formerly known as SGN, recently acquired), has teamed up with Fox Digital Entertainment, Lionsgate , and Starz to bring a mix of film and TV horror characters to the event in Family Guy: The Quest for Stuff. In-game events are a good way to make money and get lapsed players to come back.
Pokémon Go held its first ever event — for Halloween — and that was enough to push the title back to the top of the highest-grossing games. All told, Family Guy: The Quest for Stuff has been downloaded more than 30 million times and it has generated neraly $100 million in revenue, according to measurement firm Sensor Tower.
The release features Billy the Puppet from Lionsgate’s Saw films, the long-running horror franchise; Ash Williams from Starz’s popular Ash vs Evil Dead television series; and Leprechaun from Lionsgate’s classic Leprechaun film franchise. The characters all check into a haunted hotel run by James Woods, a recurring Family Guy guest star.
“As longtime fans of the TinyCo team and Family Guy: The Quest for Stuff, we are fired up and honored to include our intellectual property into this limited-time Halloween event,” said Peter Levin, president of interactive ventures and games for Lionsgate, in a statement. “Collaborating with Fox and Starz on this initiative and allowing fans of these iconic genre characters to interact in this medium is a win for all parties involved.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! This Halloween event builds upon Fox Digital Entertainment and TinyCo’s track record for keeping players engaged by regularly integrating third-party intellectual property and new storylines into their game. In this update, “Sheriff” Peter Griffin and his costumed crew do battle with the supernatural forces that have taken over the hotel.
“Starz is thrilled that Ash vs Evil Dead will be joining the Family Guy: The Quest for Stuff. Ash Williams, Billy the Puppet, Leprechaun, and Peter Griffin are bringing the party this Halloween, and Quahog is going to be cleaning up the gore for a long time to come,” said Alison Hoffman, chief marketing officer at Starz in a statement.
In addition to the Lionsgate and Starz characters who will take on a new life in Quahog, the update introduces a new investigations feature to the game through which players can explore James Woods’s haunted hotel and scare off ghosts and ghouls with new Halloween-themed actions and animations.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
