Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google Play Store now detects and filters fraudulent app installs Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google Play Store.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google today said that it’s launching enhanced systems for identifying and preventing fraudulent app installs that could otherwise affect app rankings on the Google Play Store.
Google obviously knows a thing or two about search rankings. The Play Store, full of mobile apps for Android devices, represents a search repository wholly different from the web, and now Google is cracking down on attempts to game this system.
“If an install is conducted with the intention to manipulate an app’s placement on Google Play, our systems will detect and filter it,” Google search quality analyst Kazushi Nagayama and Google product manager Andrew Ahn wrote in a blog post.
 “Furthermore, developers who continue to exhibit such behaviors could have their apps taken down from Google Play.” Nagayama and Ahn suggested that developers make sure any attempts to promote their apps are legitimate.
The move comes a couple of months after Apple announced that it would be taking “problematic and abandoned apps” out of its App Store. Google’s move is different but related — it’s about spammy apps, not crud. Basically, in both cases Google and Apple are improving search results in their respective app stores.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
