Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Solar lighting company D.light raises $7.5 million and reveals plans for a solar-powered TV Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn D.light technology in the wild Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
D.light , a for-profit social enterprise that manufactures and distributes solar-powered products aimed at “off-grid” communities, has raised $7.5 million in a debt financing round from investment management company Developing World Markets.
Founded in 2007, D.light makes myriad solar lighting products and claims five distribution hubs around the world, spanning the U.S., East Africa, West Africa, India, and Southeast Asia. The company also offers the D30 bundle , which constitutes a solar panel, battery-charging pack, solar lights, switches, FM radio, and a torch, all underpinned by D.light’s pay-as-you-go platform.
Today’s financing news comes less than two months after D.Light raised $22.5 million in a round that included a $5 million grant, $2.5 million debt funding, and $15 million equity financing from Omidyar Network, a philanthropic investment firm set up by eBay founder Pierre Omidyar, with participation from a handful of other parties. The company has now raised more than $50 million in total since its inception, and its latest cash influx will be used to expand its existing products as well as branch out into new products — including a solar-powered TV.
“We believe that capital markets can create positive economic and social change and that D.light can provide the kind of financial and social returns we seek from our investments,” explained Peter Johnson, managing partner of Developing World Markets.
D.light hasn’t divulged any details about when it plans to bring its solar-powered TV to market, but the funding news comes just a few months after U.K. electronics company Cello launched a solar-powered TV of its own, so it seems that there is demand for such a device.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
