Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages These were the 10 biggest European tech stories this week Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
This week, Tech.eu tracked 12 technology M&A transactions, one IPO, and 86 funding deals, totaling €199 million (about $224 million), in Europe, Turkey, and Israel.
Here’s an overview of the 10 biggest European tech news items for this week: 1) Dutch food delivery company Takeaway.com went public on Euronext Amsterdam today.
 Its shares were priced at €23 in its IPO, giving it a market cap of around €1 billion upon opening.
2) Spotify had quite a lot of news to announce this week, like its introduction of Daily Mix , its launch in Japan , and a new board member ( Netflix’s content boss ). But the biggest news came from the FT, which reported that Spotify is close to buying Berlin’s SoundCloud.
3) Qualcomm is reportedly in talks to acquire The Netherlands-based NXP Semiconductors , a deal that likely would cost more than $30 billion and accelerate a consolidation rush in the semiconductor industry.
4) German enterprise software giant SAP has earmarked $2.2 billion for the expansion of its Internet of Things portfolio.
 As part of that overall effort, SAP also says it is acquiring Italian IoT firm Plat.One and Norwegian analytics software maker Fedem Technology.
5) Salesforce urges EU to probe Microsoft, LinkedIn for antitrust issues.
6) This week saw the creation of Europe’s first Automotive-Telecom Alliance. The Alliance includes six leading sectorial associations, as well as 37 companies, including telecom operators, vendors, automobile manufacturers, and suppliers for both cars and trucks. Its main goal is to promote the wider deployment of connected and automated driving in Europe.
7) Apple’s new UK HQ will be in London’s iconic Battersea Power Station.
8) Renault’s carmaking alliance with Nissan is partnering with Microsoft to develop cloud-based services for cars, a step toward the group’s plans to build self-driving automobiles by 2020.
9) German fintech pioneer Smava has raised a $34 million round.
10) France’s Lydia raised €7 million for its peer-to-peer payment service.
Bonus link: Map shows VCs invested €23.8 billion in European startups since 2014.
This post originally appeared on Tech.eu.
You can subscribe to Tech.eu’s newsletter here.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
