Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Nutanix closes at $37 after first day of trading, up 131% from IPO price Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Nutanix celebrates its premier on the NASDAQ on September 30, 2016.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Converged data center hardware company Nutanix today had its first day of trading on the stock market, and its stock closed at $37 per share, up 131 percent from the $16 share price at which it sold more than 14 million shares in its initial public offering (IPO).
Nutanix stock started trading this morning at $26.50 on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. The closing price of $37 was 39.6 percent higher than that.
Generally speaking, during its first day of trading, the stock went up. The high for the day was $39.40.
Above: Nutanix stock on September 30.
Nutanix ended the day with a market cap of approximately $5 billion.
Based in San Jose, California, Nutanix started in 2009. As the company has challenged incumbents that sell individually packaged servers and storage gear, Nutanix has also found itself competing with virtualization company VMware and its vSAN offering.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
