Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google shows off Tilt Brush VR painting prototypes: multiplayer mode, custom avatars, camera feed Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Multiplayer mode in Tilt Brush.
Google today is unveiling new prototypes it has developed for Tilt Brush, a 3D painting app that’s available for the HTC Vive virtual reality headset.
It’s a lot of fun to use the app on your own. But if a video preview is any indication, Tilt Brush will get really cool when you can use it with someone else.
“It’s amazing how collaborating in the same space makes the virtual feel real. We think you’ll love this one, so we’re exploring ways to develop this concept further,” Google Tilt Brush creative director Drew Skillman wrote in a blog post.
 Skillman arrived at Google as a result of Google’s acquisition of Skillman & Hackett, the development studio behind Tilt Brush, last year.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Also, Google has developed a way for users to design their own avatars. So as you move, the avatar representing you moves in 3D space, too.
Above: Designing your own avatar in Tilt Brush.
Google figured out a novel way of giving users a peek at their surrounding world while using Tilt Brush — but not so much that the experience becomes full-blown augmented reality. It’s sort of like being stuck in a car with snow on the windshield and when you clear off some, you can see out. The trick relies on the Vive’s front-facing camera.
Above: The Portal Brush prototype for Tilt Brush.
“Although it only refreshes at 30fps, it’s a playful way to stay connected to the real world,” Skillman wrote.
It’s important to point out that these are just prototypes, so there’s no guarantee that they’ll become available to everyone. But then again, Google did end up shipping the fascinating audio-reactive brushes for everyone after first testing it out internally.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
