Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google Maps for Android starts showing Calendar events Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google Calendar on Android.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google today unveiled a no-brainer update to Google Maps: integration with Google Calendar. Rolling out gradually worldwide (so don’t be surprised if you don’t see it on Google Play just yet), the new feature means Android users will start to see their Google Calendar events on Google Maps.
For an event to appear on Google Maps, the address needs to be in the “Where” box in the Google Calendar event. The other requirement is that you need to be signed into both Google Calendar and Google Maps with the same account.
In addition to points on the map, you will also be able to see a list of your upcoming events. Open the sidebar menu in Google Maps, tap Your Places, and then Upcoming. You can also hide events from the map by tapping on them and hitting Dismiss.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Last but not least, Google Maps has a new personal content manager under the Settings tab in the side menu. Use it to toggle off what you don’t want to see on your map.
Update : A spokesperson got in touch to clarify that Google today also highlighted existing integrations in Google Maps: Gmail and Google contacts. Confirmation emails for hotel, flight, or restaurant reservations already currently show up on Google Maps — these bookings are also treated as “events” and thus show up in the Upcoming tab in Your Places. Google contacts appear on Google Maps as well, but don’t worry — these aren’t real-time updates. If you have trouble remembering exactly where all your family members, friends, and coworkers live, just type their name in the Google Maps search box, and their address will show up (as long it’s attached to their contact info).
Calendar events are probably the most welcome of all of the above, so it’s great to see this integration finally start rolling out.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
