Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Avast completes AVG acquisition, will operate as single company from October 3 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Avast CEO Vince Steckler signing AVG contract Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Almost three months after announcing its plans to acquire software security rival AVG for $1.3 billion, Avast has finally revealed that the deal is complete and the duo will operate as a single entity from this coming Monday, October 3.
Avast CEO Vince Steckler will now run the combined company and will oversee “more than $700 million” in revenue for 2016, according to a company statement.
“The combined company now has over 400 million users, more than 40 percent of the world’s consumer PCs outside of China, and the largest consumer security installed base in the world,” said Steckler. “If they were a country, we would have the third largest population in the world. The U.S. is now our number one market, with 58 million users. We truly have global reach and are proud to be the most popular choice for security in the world.” Both companies’ origins can be traced back to the old Czechoslovakia in the late 1980s / early 1990s, and they each emerged as major players in the mobile and desktop antivirus security software market. When Avast announced its plans to acquire AVG back in July, it said it was to “gain scale, technological depth, and geographical breadth.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Though the transaction had already been given the go-ahead by the boards of both companies at the time, given that AVG is a publicly traded firm (on the New York Stock Exchange), it needed shareholder approval, which it now has. Indeed, Avast now holds around 87.3 percent of AVG’s outstanding shares, and it has opened another offering period to give the remaining AVG shareholders a chance to tender their shares — this will close on October 14.
The new combined entity will see AVG delisted from the NYSE to become a fully private firm, while AVG’s CEO, Gary Kovacs, will be leaving the company.
“We now have the technical breadth to provide superior protection for our customers,” continued Steckler. “For example, our combined threat labs will have teams dedicated to emerging threats affecting consumers. These include social engineering threats, which are commonly used to target IoT devices, and ransomware, which we are fighting with machine learning technology. We believe we are now better equipped than ever to outsmart those who want to do harm to people online.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
