Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Holy innovation Batman! Instagram photos and videos get pinch-to-zoom Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Instagram announced today that it’s rolling out an update to iOS that lets you zoom in on photos and videos in your feed, on profiles, and in the Explore section of the app. The feature is also coming to Android “very soon,” Instagram tells VentureBeat, but there are no plans to bring it to mobile web users.
Although pinch-to-zoom feels as if it has existed since the dawn of time, this is a nice addition to Instagram now that the service has evolved beyond a feed of low-fi filtered squares.
Zoom also appears to have been a sought-after feature: Numerous apps and guides exist to help users zoom in on Instagram pictures.
Smartphone cameras have improved quite a bit since Instagram launched five years ago. Today’s update isn’t innovative, but it doesn’t have to be. Plus if you don’t want to pinch and zoom, you don’t have to use it.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
