Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google helps Faroe Islanders map their islands for Street View using sheep, kayaks, and more Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google Street View Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
A few months back, news emerged that residents of the Faroe Islands, a small archipelago between the Norwegian Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean that’s home to almost 50,000 people, were starting to map their own roads in response to Google’s failure to arrive with its Street View mapping equipment.
With the support of a shepherd, five sheep, 360-degree cameras, and a special harness to attach the cameras to the aforementioned ovine, islanders created Sheep View 360 , a sort of next-best alternative to having Street View document the island. It seems the story struck a chord with Google, because the internet giant has arrived on the scene with a Street View Trekker and a batch of 360 cameras, courtesy of its Street View camera loan program.
Google is no stranger to mapping weird and wonderful environs — it has found itself traversing the Amazon rainforest on a zipline and has also gone underwater at the Great Barrier Reef.
 And last week, Google sent a bunch of employees from the maps team to the Faroe Islands to train locals not only in use of the equipment but also in how to best capture the environment.
“Together with Google, we have decided to continue making our own version of Street View — instead of using their cars, Google has provided us with cameras, a Google Trekker, and lots of support,” explained Visit Faroe Islands’ Durita Dahl Andreassen, who also kickstarted the quirky Sheep View 360 project, in a blog post.
 “We have come to love our Sheep View so much that instead of replacing it, we have expanded the fleet of cameras.” Indeed, residents and tourists are being invited to aid the sheep using whatever equipment they can find — selfie-sticks, bikes, kayaks, wheelbarrows, horses, and more. Meanwhile, check out this little skit on the Google Sheep View project… and how Google came to the rescue.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
