Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Tile unveils wallet-sized Tile Slim, starts licensing its tech to third parties Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Bluetooth tracker company Tile has a new product: the $30 Tile Slim , a tracker about as thick as two credit cards that fits easily inside your wallet.
While the original Tile tracker is sticking around, Tile boasts that the Slim is “the world’s thinnest Bluetooth tracker designed specifically for wallets.” Like the original Tile, the Silm was designed to help you keep track of items you often lose (or can’t afford to lose) — like your wallet, blazer, or laptop (via an adhesive).
Fresh off an $18 million round , Tile is also beginning to sell its tracking tech to third-party hardware companies, starting with scooter maker EcoReco, PowerPack maker Nomad, and “smart wallet” maker Zillion.
Every tracker Tile makes is part of a larger user network that enables the company to locate lost items beyond the physical range of Bluetooth — say, if you lost your keys at a cafe, someone else’s Tile could reveal their location in Tile’s app.
“Opening our platform to allow other companies to build Tile’s smart location technology into their products will expand our network quickly,” said Tile CEO Mike Farley, explaining that this “creates value for our community of partners and consumers by finding items even faster.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
