Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release Libre Wireless Technologies Announces Collaboration with Silicon Labs to Enable Compelling New DAB/DAB+ and Wi-Fi Connected DAB/DAB+ Solutions Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn IRVINE, Calif.–(BUSINESS WIRE)–August 31, 2016– Libre Wireless Technologies, Inc.
, a leading embedded Wi-Fi and wireless solutions provider, today announced its strategic working relationship with Silicon Labs to develop and produce a range of turn-key wireless DAB/DAB+ modules and software solutions for next generation radios and audio products featuring DAB/DAB+ combined with Wi-Fi connectivity and media streaming capability.
Digital Audio Broadcast (DAB/DAB+) continues to be a significant digital broadcast technology in several regions around the world. Meanwhile, Wi-Fi audio streaming is becoming very popular for audio products and consumers are beginning to expect it across the board. By combining forces, Libre Wireless and Silicon Labs can deliver extremely cost-effective DAB/DAB+ streaming solutions in turn-key embedded modules that deliver to companies proven DAB/DAB+ performance and the most compelling wireless streaming features all with the fastest time to market, lowest risk and lowest cost.
“Libre Wireless Technologies continues to lead the market with LibreSync, the most cost-effective and advanced wireless streaming technologies and module solutions,” says Hooman Kashef , Chief Executive Officer of Libre Wireless Technologies. “As we enable Wi-Fi streaming features for the mainstream products at lower cost, lower power and with the most powerful MRA technology in the world (DDMS), our alliance with Silicon Labs makes perfect sense given their leading expertise in RF IC design and their now proven and certified DAB/DAB+ solutions shipping in the market today.” “We are delighted to collaborate with Libre Wireless Technologies in enabling the next wave of DAB/DAB+ technology for the world of consumer audio,” said Brian Mirkin, General Manager of Silicon Labs’ broadcast products. “The combination of Libre’s Wi-Fi connected solutions and Silicon Labs’ best-in-class multi-band digital radio broadcast receivers brings the digital content and CD-quality user experience of DAB/DAB+ radio into the mainstream of wireless streaming audio. We applaud Libre’s innovative approach of extending cutting-edge digital broadcast content over Wi-Fi into the connected home market.” Libre plans to release new DAB/DAB+ and DAB/DAB+ combined Wi-Fi module products integrated with their industry-leading LibreSync software SDK for the industry’s best price/performance options. More details on specific products as well as customer sampling will come in fourth quarter 2016.
About Libre Wireless Technologies Libre Wireless Technologies has extensive expertise and experience in developing Wi-Fi/Wireless technologies with IoT and Media streaming software and SDK platforms, electronic modules and RF/antenna design solutions. The Libre team has deep Wi-Fi/BT technology, IoT and A/V system design experience combined with worldwide sales, technical support and design partnerships. The LibreSync platform incorporates unique media streaming technology, broad mobile platform ecosystem support, seamless interoperability, scalable price/performance solution options, optimized and flexible Wi-Fi/Bluetooth options (1×1 11n, 2×2 11n, 11n/ac) and extensive system level features. Optimized for performance, power, size and cost, LibreSync solutions provide ODMs and CE Brand customers with the most complete, flexible and ecosystem leading media streaming platform available.
About Silicon Labs Silicon Labs (NASDAQ: SLAB) is a leading provider of silicon, software and solutions for the Internet of Things, Internet infrastructure, industrial automation, consumer and automotive markets. We solve the electronics industry’s toughest problems, providing customers with significant advantages in performance, energy savings, connectivity and design simplicity. Backed by our world-class engineering teams with unsurpassed software and mixed-signal design expertise, Silicon Labs empowers developers with the tools and technologies they need to advance quickly and easily from initial idea to final product.
www.silabs.com View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20160831005854/en/ Libre Wireless Technologies, Inc.
Jordan Watters, Chief Revenue Officer (512) 757-9490 Jordan.watters@librewireless.com www.librewireless.com VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
