Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Box acquires team behind data analytics startup Wagon, service shutting down on October 3 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Wagon Analytics for OS X.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Cloud file syncing and sharing software company Box today announced that it has acquired the team from Wagon Analytics , a startup that built an application analysts could use to query and analyze their data.
“In joining Box, the Wagon team will be helping build out our analytics platform to provide deeper insights that help customers make the most of Box,” Box cofounder and chief executive Aaron Levie wrote in a blog post.
 “The Wagon team’s deep engineering and product expertise in user experience, data modeling, and quick visualizations complements our strength in analytics.” The Wagon application, which supports a variety of databases and provides an easy way of sharing analysis with colleagues, is available for OS X and Windows; a Linux version is marked as “coming soon” on the startup’s website. The service will shut down on October 3, the team wrote in a blog post.
“Wagon and Box believe that shared knowledge empowers individuals and unites teams. Box helps enterprises do more with their content and get their work done faster by acting as the central, modern content platform,” the Wagon team wrote. “Fortune 500 companies across every industry trust Box to sit at the center of their businesses. We’re excited to build data analytics products at Box to help people understand their data and work better, together.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Wagon was founded in 2014 and was based in San Francisco. Cofounder Matthew DeLand, Mike Craig, and Jeff Weinstein previously worked at Groupon. Investors include Fuel Capital, Harrison Metal, Homebrew, Lerer Ventures, and SV Angel. Competitors include Mode Analytics.
Also today, Box announced its earnings for the second quarter of its 2017 fiscal year, which ended on July 31. The company reported a net loss of 30 cents per share, or $38.1 million, on $95.7 million in revenue. Box added 4,000 customers in the quarter.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
