Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Do you hear an Echo? Baidu’s personal assistant tech to power Harman speakers Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Harman Kardon Onyx speaker Artificial intelligence from Chinese tech giant Baidu will be incorporated into Harman Kardon speakers, according to Baidu.
The announcement comes a day after speaker maker Sonos teamed up with Amazon’s Alexa.
Utilizing Baidu A.I., speech-enabled Harman speakers will let users carry out tasks, shop, and search the internet with their voice.
The integration was announced at the annual Baidu World conference. With more than a billion visitors a month, Baidu is, among other things, the fourth-most-popular website in the world, according to Alexa data.
“Baidu A.I. technologies that will be incorporated into Harman Kardon include automatic speech recognition (ASR) in English and Mandarin, on-device wake word, natural language understanding (NLU) and processing (NLP), text-to-speech (TSS), voiceprint, a recommendation system, and a dialog system,” a Baidu spokesperson said.
Development of personal assistants will begin immediately, but no timeline has been set for when consumers can expect to be able to order a Harman Kardon speaker for their home.
At last year’s Baidu World , Baidu unveiled its virtual assistant Duer and added it to Baidu apps.
In January 2015, Baidu and Harman started working together on Carlife to compete with Apple CarPlay and Android Auto.
Carlife can make calls, get directions, and operate third-party apps. Automotive partners include BMW, General Motors, and Mercedes-Benz.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
