Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release ABODO Raises $4.8 Million in Series A Funding Round Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn MADISON, Wis.–(BUSINESS WIRE)–August 31, 2016– ABODO , a leader in apartment listing technology, today announced the completion of its Series A financing, totaling $4.8 million.
Led by existing investor 4490 Ventures, this investment follows exponential growth since ABODO’s 2014 Series AA round. American Family Ventures and Flyover Capital are also participating in this round of funding.
“ABODO is bringing innovation to a sector that has lacked significant innovation for decades,” said Greg Robinson, Managing Director of 4490 Ventures. “ABODO gives a younger apartment seeker an experience that is modern and consistent with their mobile lifestyle.” By combining a mobile-first approach with a high-quality inventory of apartments nationwide, ABODO provides its Millennial and young professional users with the tools they need to find and rent apartments in a convenient and timely manner. As a result, ABODO has seen its user growth increase 600 percent over the past year.
ABODO CEO Alec Slocum said, “This round will be used to continue our mission to innovate in the apartment listing space in order to bring meaningful change to the way people find apartments today. We’re extremely excited to use the funding for continued national growth and expansion.” Including this Series A round of funding, ABODO has raised more than $8 million since the company’s 2012 inception.
About ABODO Founded in 2012 and now a team of 28, ABODO is the country’s leading hyper-local apartment search service. The company is driving the rental search experience by combining the largest inventory of available apartments with a simple and intuitive user experience. ABODO is a privately held venture-funded company, headquartered in Madison, Wis.
For more information, visit ABODO.com.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
