Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google Maps for iOS now lets you add multiple stops to trips Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Multiple destinations in a trip in Google Maps for iOS.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The Google Maps app for iOS now lets users add multiple destinations in a single trip, just like on the web and, more recently, on Android.
Just a few weeks ago, when Google announced that you could have multiple stops on trips in the Android version of Google Maps, the company said the feature would come to iOS, and now it’s here. The feature is part of version 4.21.0 of the iOS app, which arrived in the App Store on July 25.
All you have to do is enter a destination, select the blue navigation button, hit the three dots near the top right corner of the screen, and tap “Add stop,” Google Maps product manager Aditya Dhanrajani wrote in a blog post.
 Add as many stops as you like.
If you’re in the middle of a trip in navigation mode, you can also add a stop, using the magnifying glass icon to find a specific place. You can also remove stops as necessary, by swiping up from the trip duration menu on the bottom and hitting the X next to specific stops, or by hitting the X button to the left of the trip duration and tapping “remove stop.” Alternatively, you can choose the “exit navigation” button, then tap in to the destinations at the top to cancel destinations. From there, you can also add more stops or swap the order of the stops as you see fit.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
