Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google Search now helps you set up email notifications for when you’re mentioned on the web Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google's Stay in the Loop feature in Google Search.
Google is making it a little easier for you to get an alert whenever your name gets mentioned on the internet.
Now, when you Google yourself, so long as you’re logged into Google and you’ve allowed it to save your web and app activity , Google will show you a new widget at the bottom of the first page of search results that will help you easily set up a Google Alert to track new references to your name.
This is a reasonable move for Google to make. Google Alerts have been around since 2003. These days, if you want to find out what’s online about you, you Google yourself; you don’t set up a Google Alert. But the thing is that even though they’re not the hot new thing, Google Alerts work well. You can adjust settings — like email frequency, source types, languages, regions, whether to only send the best results, and the email address to send alerts to. So Google Alerts provide the back end for this new tool.
When you click on the widget — which uses the heading “Stay in the loop” — Google takes you to a Google Alert form that already has your name in quotation marks. Once you’ve tweaked the settings, just hit “Create Alert,” and you’re done.
In a blog post last month, Google showed the feature in a screenshot, although it had not yet been released, as a Google spokesperson told VentureBeat in an email. Now the feature is live.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
