Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Elon Musk says you’ll be able to decide who can use your self-driving Tesla Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Tesla Model 3 Elon Musk, cofounder and CEO of Tesla Motors, today elaborated on his vision for the shared fleet of autonomous Tesla vehicles during a speech marking the grand opening of Tesla’s Gigafactory battery manufacturing plant in Nevada.
The remarks came a week after Musk unveiled his plan to turn existing Teslas into a “shared fleet,” with the help of distributed learning of autonomous driving.
The way Musk sees it, Tesla owners will be able to set rules about who will be able to use your Tesla when you’re not using it.
Here’s what he said: Whenever you’re not using your car, you’ll be able to just tap the Tesla app on your phone and then add it to or subtract it from the the shared fleet. And you’ll be able to define, like, well, you know, who can use it, like only five-star users, or anyone, or only family, or whatever. And then whenever you want it back, you can just tap it, and it will return to you. So most of the time when you look at cars, they’re sitting in a parking lot somewhere, and they’re not being used, and this has the potential to massively amplify the utility of vehicles and offset the cost of ownership. And it’s going to be totally up to you when you want to do it, or not do it. It’s all yours.
“Will it find Pokémon for us?” someone in the crowd asked.
“It will find Pokémon for you, Musk said. “Absolutely. Of course.” Last month, Tesla said the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration was investigating the accident in which one person died while driving in a 2015 Tesla Model S that was in autopilot mode.
You can watch a recording of today’s Gigafactory event below.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
