Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon’s Alexa voice assistant went down for some people today Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Amazon Tap: A smaller Echo device that's portable and Alexa-enabled.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Amazon’s Alexa voice assistant, which powers the Amazon Echo smart speaker and other devices, has been acting up today. Many people have reported problems.
The thing is, Amazon doesn’t have a place where people can check the status of the Alexa Voice Service. So what we have are many reports of issues, starting a little after 6 p.m. Pacific. Here are a few of the reports: @amazonecho help! My dear Alexa played prime music a few minutes ago and now this?!? Weather works fine @AmazonHelp pic.twitter.com/IQWVm3SRVe — Patty Huang (@pattyphuang) July 30, 2016 All hell just broke loose.
#Alexaisdown @amazonecho — Steel Fajitas (@Steel_Fajitas) July 30, 2016 VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Who else loves it when @amazonecho randomly decided to not play music? — Matthew Stone (@IndyMattStone) July 30, 2016 @amazon What's going on? Echo, dot, and fire not working. I can'teven call.
#failure.
 Need Answers! — J Mazak (@Jmajkrzak) July 30, 2016 @amazonecho Is it something wrong with the Alexa app?!? — Livia Delgado (@LiviaD11) July 30, 2016 @AmazonHelp Is there something going on with the Alexa App and your site? Trying to set up Echo for first time and can't even open app. Sad.
— heidigarfield (@heidigarfield) July 30, 2016 @AmazonHelp My Echo app and unit aren't working. I can't even sign into the app. What's up? — Brian Rivera (@bamrivera481) July 30, 2016 Are the Echo servers down? @AmazonHelp — Scott Beidler (@RenegadeReformR) July 30, 2016 The Alexa mobile app is malfunctioning tonight. I can't play music on my Amazon Echo.
— Andrew Arnott (@aarnott) July 30, 2016 @AmazonHelp is your website down? I am unable to log in on any device including phone, computer, and echo. Please help. Thank you.
— Daniel Bernath (@DBernath) July 30, 2016 @amazonecho Pandora just quit playing and Alexa only says something went wrong. What's up? #tooexpensivetobejustaclock — Oppo Trump (@Oppo_Trump) July 30, 2016 @amazonecho is the alexa app down now? I reset my tap but cannot finish configuration. Some message saying cannot retrieve older cards — SharkieQ 検索と破棄 ! (@sharkieQ) July 30, 2016 Is everyone's @amazonecho broken and unable to play music or is it just me.
— MICHAEL TRANSON (@michaeltranson) July 30, 2016 our other people's @amazonecho not working or is it just mine? — Lauren (@laurenradice) July 30, 2016 Looks like @amazon is having an outage right now with some services… @amazonecho #IT — Joel Pacheco (@joelpacheco_) July 30, 2016 At least one person reported that Alexa was working again just after 7 p.m. Pacific.
Me when @amazonecho started wprking again! #amazondown pic.twitter.com/HJMMe64HQ4 — Josh Schoemann (@joshomen) July 30, 2016 Amazon did not immediately respond to a request for comment. We’ll update this post as we learn more.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
