Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple is reportedly in talks to buy music streaming service Tidal Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn At Apple headquarters in Cupertino, California.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Apple is looking into acquiring Tidal , the premium music streaming service that competes with Apple Music, according to a new report.
The talks are exploratory, so Apple may not ultimately go through with the deal, according to the Wall Street Journal , which cited anonymous sources.
Tidal popped up in 2014 — Jay Z acquired it from Aspiro for $56 million — and has sought to distinguish itself from Spotify and other competitors by offering higher-quality audio. In addition to offering users high-definition sound, Tidal has obtained exclusives from Beyoncé , Kanye West , and other hugely popular artists. The exclusive angle may be especially appealing to Apple, given the hardware and software maker’s recent interest in producing original content.
This move would follow Apple’s $3 billion acquisition of Beats Electronics in 2014. Beats Music has bolstered Apple Music ‘s core product, and Apple also sells Beats headphones.
If Tidal were to become an Apple property, the Journal said, it would “bolster” Apple Music, which currently has 15 million subscribers.
 Privately held Spotify, meanwhile, had 30 million subscribers as of March and had more than 100 million monthly active users as of this month.
Apple and Tidal representatives did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
