Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored How the shaving clubs stack up: Best of the blades Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn This sponsored post is produced in association with Gillette.
Let’s face it. Maintaining a silky smooth shave can be a pricey undertaking for any man. Replacing the blades of your shaver periodically can cost a fortune, ranging from $9 to nearly $30 per cartridge pack. It’s even worse when you realize you’ve made a lousy investment after testing the babies out and discovering their lackluster quality. Needless to say, it’s no fun for your face or wallet having to replace a razor that gets the job only half-done.
That’s why the recent study by Consumer Reports on which shave club has the best razor and blades is sweet music to those looking to take advantage of shave club savings and convenience. Certainly, subscription models have become increasingly popular, combining the best of the on-demand economy with in-demand products.
Every shave club claims to have the best razor at the lowest price, but eight male staffers from Consumer Reports put four of the top clubs’ razors — Dollar Shave Club’s Humble Twin and Executive models, Gillette Shave Club’s Fusion ProShield, and Harry’s Truman — to the test. That added up to a lot of shaved sideburns, tricky adam’s apples and sensitive under-nose spots.
“Our staffers used each of the brands at home for eight days and then answered questions on comfort and quality of shave,” explained Consumer Reports Chief Health Editor Ellen Kunes.
The testers and sensory experts judged the closeness of the shaves at the end of each day throughout the test.
Out of all the razors tested, Gillette Shave Club’s Fusion ProShield ranked number one. It delivered the closest shave out of the bunch and was generally reviewed as excellent or very good on all other measures. And almost all the testers were interested in taking the test to the personal level, saying they would buy it.
Clearly, as tech advances, there really isn’t any excuse to sacrifice quality for convenience. Plus, subscribing to the Gillette Shave Club offers a host of perks, whether you’re a subscriber or not – like deals and coupons, exclusive access to some of Gillette’s most exciting campaigns, including sports and entertainment partnerships and celebrities. And, oh yeah – some pretty helpful grooming and style content.
Check out the video below to see one of the perks you can take advantage of right now – a very cool complimentary t-shirt designed by Johnny Cupcakes.
Learn more about Gillette’s Shave Club and sign-up today.
Use the coupon code “JOHNNY” on checkout to pick up your special edition t-shirt, while supplies last (available to the first 500 sign ups).
Sponsored posts are content that has been produced by a company that is either paying for the post or has a business relationship with VentureBeat, and they’re always clearly marked. The content of news stories produced by our editorial team is never influenced by advertisers or sponsors in any way. For more information, contact sales@venturebeat.com.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
