Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Walmart Pay launches in all 100 stores across New York Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Walmart Pay Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Walmart has launched its mobile payment service, Walmart Pay, in New York. The launch comes less than two months after the big nationwide rollout began, kicking off in Texas and Arkansas, and the service has been gradually introduced to other markets in the intervening weeks.
The service sees Walmart take on the likes of Apple Pay, Samsung Pay, and Google Pay, and the payment feature embedded within the main Walmart app on Android and iOS integrates with most of the major bank cards and Walmart gift cards.
Walmart Pay works at any checkout — open the app, hit Walmart Pay, then scan the QR code on the register’s screen using the phone’s camera to connect.
Above: Walmart Pay With 140 million foot customers each week, Walmart is one of the biggest retailers in the U.S., so Walmart Pay is a notable launch — particularly as it doesn’t yet accept Apple, Google, or Samsung’s respective payment methods.
But the company has maintained that the launch is less about competing with these other tech giants in the payments space than it is about making it easier to buy things in physical retail stores — so this could be seen as more of an attack on the likes of Amazon than anything else.
“It was really a design around improving checkout, not just payment,” explained Daniel Eckert, senior vice president of services at Walmart, in an interview with Fortune earlier this year. “When we looked at checkout, there was still friction in the process.” Walmart Pay is now available in all 100 Walmart stores across New York State.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
