Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Netflix responds to criticism on poor local content in Asia Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Netflix SEOUL (Reuters) — Netflix Inc will continue to look into the possibility of entering China, a senior company executive said on Thursday, as the video streaming service seeks to grow its subscriber base outside its home of the United States.
“Since China is a great opportunity, we continue to look into China,” Ted Sarandos, Netflix’s chief content officer, said at a media event in Seoul without elaborating.
Netflix is trying to counter slowing growth in the U.S. with its move in January to launch in more than 130 new markets worldwide. But the streaming service remains absent in the world’s most populous country, where content providers face stringent regulations and censorship challenges.
The company has also struggled to make headway in other large Asian markets such as South Korea and Indonesia due to a dearth of local content and regulatory hurdles.
Netflix in April forecast U.S. and international subscription growth for the second quarter that was weaker than analyst estimates, underscoring its need to expand.
“The weakest point for Netflix, people say, is the local content, but that’s because we need time to learn not just the market and box office but about what and how Korean people watch,” Sarandos told reporters in response to a question about the firm’s strategy in South Korea.
Netflix is looking at various investment opportunities in Asia to improve its offerings, he said without elaborating.
(Corrects headline and attribution in 1st and 2nd paragraphs to Netflix chief content officer Ted Sarandos, not CEO Reed Hastings) (Reporting by Nataly Pak; Writing by Se Young Lee; Editing by Christopher Cushing) VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
