Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft releases new Windows 10 preview for PCs with Action Center, Start menu bug fixes Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Windows 10 Microsoft today announced the release of a new Windows 10 build for PCs and mobile for people participating in the fast ring of the Windows Insider Program.
Build 14379 comes just two days after build 14376.
 The velocity of new preview versions of Windows 10 is just slightly lower than it was last week, when Microsoft released two builds in two days.
Microsoft has been working on the big Anniversary Update that’s due out on August 2 , so it’s no surprise that this build doesn’t come with a lot of new things — it’s mainly about bug fixes.
For example, now the Action Center won’t crash after you dismiss a bunch of notifications, Dona Sarkar, a software engineer in Microsoft’s Windows and Devices Group, wrote in a blog post.
 Also, launches of Project Centennial applications from the Start menu and Cortana will now be taken into consideration for the calculation of which apps should be shown in the “Most used” section of the start menu, Sarkar wrote. (See the blog post for descriptions of the other two bug fixes.) There’s just one known issue in this build: “Using Continuum from your phone on your PC via the Connect app will not work,” Sarkar wrote. That should be ironed out in the next build, she added.
If you want to try the new previews but you’re not a Windows Insider, you can sign up here.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
