Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Doodle acquires chatbot Meekan to integrate its A.I. scheduling assistant Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Switzerland-based company behind the Doodle online scheduling service announced today that it has acquired Meekan, a scheduling chatbot developed in Israel.
“The integration of Meekan enables Doodle’s next step forward,” said Christoph Brand, head of the digital division at Tamedia, which owns Doodle, in a press release. “The chatbot as an intelligent virtual assistant allows fast scheduling without having to consult one’s own calendar. It has definitely enormous potential.” Above: Screenshot of @meekan bot The two sides did not disclose a price. But they did say that Tel Aviv-based Meekan founders Lior Yavor, Eyal Yavor, and Matty Marianksy will join the company and continue to oversee the development of their product.
The company said Meekan’s technology would be integrated directly in its Doodle polls. Currently, Meekan uses a chatbot interface and artificial intelligence to help members of a group schedule meetings. Over time, Meekan learns the preferences and habits of its users.
Doodle, for its part, already has a user base of 26 million users per month.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
