Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Airbnb’s new site lets neighbors complain about noisy guests Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Screenshot of Airbnb's new portal site that allows neighbors to submit complaints about Airbnb listings near them that are noisy or have other issues.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Airbnb is making moves to show it can be a good corporate citizen. Instead of just showing how it can build up market share in cities around the world, today it launched a site dedicated to hearing complaints from neighbors.
Those who suspect badly behaved tenants near them are renting an Airbnb property will now have a dedicated place to inform the company. The submissions can be done anonymously, or you can have your information passed along to the host. Issues that you can complain about include noise, personal safety, common spaces, or other general concerns.
What Airbnb is providing is an easier way for neighbors to file complaints about listings in their neighborhood and gain some transparency into whatever investigation transpires. Now there’s a central place to get your voice heard instead of having to tweet madly at the company or even emailing with the hopes that your beef will be seen and catalogued.
While Airbnb has no fantasies its hosts and guests will always behave perfectly, it says it wants to “help our community members be good neighbors in the places our hosts call home.” The company claimed that “complaints and issues are incredibly rare.” The launch of this portal comes as the company moves forward with its new marketing campaign that encourages you to “live there”: Guests shouldn’t just stop in a city for a split second and leave, but should actually take it all in like a local. And that means being a good community member. To defuse local governments and its citizens putting forth potential regulations, such as what Airbnb faced in San Francisco with Proposition F , it has to show that it’s taking the needs of non-guests and non-hosts very seriously.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
