Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Nearly 60% of mobile gamers watch an ad or take a survey 10 times a week Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Hollywood's virtual reality in 2010's Tron: Legacy.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
More than half of highly engaged mobile games watch video ads, complete surveys, or install apps to earn virtual in-game currency rewards, according to a new study.
The most common action? Watching ads.
“Free-to-play games make money from in-app purchases or advertising. Reward-based models marry both of those and make a nice third option for the mix,” says TapResearch VP Michael Sprague. “We saw a bit of a rocky road at the beginning as ‘incentived advertising’ painted a negative image on this model, but we are now in a place that if you’re not using rewarded video, then you’re doing it wrong.” Mobile monetization is challenging, of course, with studies consistently finding that a very low percentage of people — generally, low single digits — are willing to part with cash in exchange for games or other apps.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Why do people want virtual cash? To improve their gaming experience, of course: Sprague, who was formerly with the virtual rewards platform Kiip , says that the second-most-common activity for earning virtual rewards is completing a survey, with 74 percent of respondents saying they’ve done that. (TapResearch, of course, offers mobile research monetization for app publishers, so it is not exactly a disinterested party here.) Watching videos is clearly the leader in terms of what users prefer. When asked what their favorite activity is for earning virtual cash, 70 percent said watching a video. Probably because it requires more active involvement, less than half that number — 31 percent — say completing a survey is their favorite.
For obvious reasons, the least favorite was completing an offer, like signing up for Netflix or Amazon Prime. Few like to give away their personal information, especially their credit cards.
Sprague says that different types of apps and different kinds of user modes require different forms of monetization.
“Another interesting piece to rewarded monetization is the psychology behind it. Video is great for a quick 30-second save when users are in ‘gaming mode,'” he told me via email. “Surveys take a bit more commitment and work better when users are in ‘shopping mode.’ It all comes down to expectation setting and user choice.” Mobile gamers want a lot of virtual currently, apparently. Sprague said that almost 60 percent of people complete 10 or more offers in an average month: One note to remember: TapResearch surveyed just under 400 mobile users for the research. For better, more statistically significant results, 1,000 or more would have been preferable.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
