Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Gary Vaynerchuk, social media, and the best comedy recall ever – VB Engage Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Welcome to the inaugural VB Engage podcast! With VB Engage, we are interviewing the best and brightest minds across the technology world. And for our first episode, we bring you one of our favorite digital hustlers, Gary Vaynerchuk.
Whether it be mobile, social, or digital, our mission is to bring you the best knowledge from the world’s wisest people. Oh, and to bring you brutally honest marketing feedback. And jokes. Mix that all together, and you get what we like to call “snarketing.” Each episode begins with Stewart Rogers and Travis Wright bantering about the latest VB Engage-worthy news. It’s where our skinny British guy and his fat American cohost dissect all things tech.
This week we discuss Microsoft Windows Phones , mixed reality, and Nokia (“knock-ya” vs. “no-key-ah”) getting its brand name back and building handsets again.
After the news, we bring you our own version of the #AskGaryVee show. Gary is the CEO of VaynerMedia — an author, thought leader, early investor in SnapChat and Uber, and also the future owner of the New York Jets. We had the opportunity to pick Gary’s brain and ask him several questions.
Gary explains his epiphany around building a show based on the Q&A portions of his keynotes — the substance of Gary is his knowledge in the space. And we ask him about the unique ways that millennials are using social media, including how they use Twitter in a totally different, highly public way.
According to Gary, Snapchat and Instagram are not great for younger users when it comes to sharing their public thoughts: They use Twitter as the place they share their context of what’s going on in the world.
With real-time events, we go to Twitter. It is still the watercooler of the world. The public two cents on any topic. Gary thinks Twitter will dip but come back. It fills a void that no other social channel does.
We also find out just how much time each day Gary spends engaging with people on Twitter, Snapchat, and Instagram versus creating content, taking meetings, and doing client work.
We discover that whenever Gary travels, he spends at least 2 hours engaging with other people. Nine hours a day are taken up by being the CEO of a 650-person company. We dig into where speaking, content creation, and social networking fits into his schedule.
And yes, this is the first episode, but that doesn’t mean we don’t have fans already. One of our soon-to-be-regular listeners asks about knowing when to fail fast and hang up a venture. We also discuss a very important question around emotional intelligence and self-awareness.
And make sure to tune in to what Gary Vee called maybe the “greatest comedy recall from any interview that he’s ever experienced,” instigated by our own Stewart Rogers! Here’s that moment in GIF form.
Tune in next time for Amy Vernon , editor at The Daily Dot, whom we talk with about engagement and community management.
Thanks to our launch sponsor Braintree for helping to make VB Engage possible.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
