Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Innovium raises $50 million for networking chips in data centers Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Innovium is working on next-generation data center chips.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Innovium has raised $50 million in funding across two rounds to develop networking infrastructure products for next-generation data centers. The company is disclosing those rounds for the first time.
The company’s products are designed to help companies deal with a bunch of trends, such as the continued adoption of mobile, video, anything-as-a-service (XaaS), big data analytics, and Internet of Things (IoT, or making everyday objects smart and connected).
San Jose, California-based Innovium first raised a round of funding in the first quarter of 2015 in a round led by venture capital firms Walden Riverwood Ventures and Capricorn Investment Corp., with participation from S-Cubed and Qualcomm. Later in 2015, the company raised more money from Greylock Partners and existing investors.
Board members include Asheem Chandna of Greylock, Dipender Saluja of Capricorn, Lip-Bu Tan of Walden International, and Mark Stevens of S-Cubed.
Innovium believes that the meteoric explosion of data requires a grounds-up approach to high performance Ethernet networking.
“Innovium is laser-focused on developing revolutionary semiconductor solutions to meet our customers’ most critical needs. We are delighted to receive top-tier investor support towards this mission,” said Rajiv Khemani, CEO of Innovium, in a statement.
Khemani was previously chief operating officer at Cavium Networks, a multi-core chip maker that went public. And Puneet Agarwal, chief technology officer, led Broadcom’s technology development of multiple generations of data center switches, including Trident and Tomahawk.
“They’ve got a very experienced team that is developing products in a market that is dominated by some very large players,” said Quinn Li, vice president and global head of Qualcomm Ventures, in an interview with VentureBeat. “They are working on a different architecture that we believe is differentiated.” Innovium isn’t talking about what it’s building yet. The company says its engineering and executive team came from companies including Broadcom, Cavium, Cisco, Dell, Ericsson, Intel, and Juniper.
“Domain knowledge and strong execution track record are critical to the success of any new venture. Innovium’s team members have delivered successful products widely deployed in a range of infrastructure applications across the world. With a clean-sheet design, we believe that Innovium can deliver a truly compelling solution,” said Lip-Bu Tan, chairman of Walden International, in a statement.
Asheem Chandna, partner at Greylock Partners, said in a statement that Innovium has put together one of the industry’s “strongest Ethernet switching teams.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
