Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Adam Dell’s new startup Clarity Money raises $2.5 million to be ‘your money guru’ Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Clarity Money , a New York-based startup still in beta, announced in a public filing that it raised a $2.5 million investment.
Cofounded by venture capitalist Adam Dell — brother of Dell founder Michael Dell — Clarity Money’s stealthy Angel List page says it aims to become “your money guru” by providing “actionable insights into a consumer’s financial relationships.” The company’s service appears to feature some sort of AI or chatbot-style interface for navigating your personal finances, judging by a screenshot posted on Clarity’s site.
Dell declined to comment on the raise. However, in April on Twitter he called for users to sign up for Clarity’s beta. At the time, he described the service as a “financial concierge that does the work of getting you the best deals.” Deals on what, we still don’t know.
Clarity – Your Money Guru A financial concierge that does the work of getting you the best deals.
Our Beta Signup! https://t.co/bHMJDAdHpM — Adam Dell (@adamdell) April 3, 2016 VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
