Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Square now lets you lease its contactless and chip reader for $1 per week Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Apple Pay is shown in use with Square's contactless card reader, which also supports Google Pay.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Square has made it a bit easier for businesses to afford its new contactless and chip reader with a lease price of just $1 per week. The intention is to reduce the financial strain entrepreneurs face and allow them to use the latest commerce-based technology right now.
Launched in November , Square’s latest card reader not only puts businesses in compliance with the latest financial regulations by switching from antiquated technology to more EMV and NFC systems, but it also provides near-field communication capabilities, meaning that they can now accept Apple Pay, Android Pay, and other similar methods.
Although normally priced at $49 in retail stores and online, Square is giving businesses access to the card reader for just $1 per week for 60 weeks, which will give the company an extra $11 when it’s all said and done. The company hasn’t commented about the discrepancy, but perhaps it might be attributed to some overhead costs it has.
This leasing program is only available for the new contactless and cheap reader, so if you have an older card reader from Square, you’re out of luck.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
