Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Alexa could be the 4th pillar of Amazon, says Jeff Bezos Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Jeff Bezos speaks at Recode's Code Conference on May 31, 2016.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Amazon has three big pillars: the retail marketplace, Amazon Prime, and Amazon Web Services.
 But there certainly would be room for a fourth pillar.
It’s possible that Amazon Studios, which is producing original video content for Prime Video, could be that fourth pillar, but it’s also possible that the Alexa voice assistant, which is packaged inside of the Echo speaker , could end up being the fourth pillar, Amazon founder and CEO Jeff Bezos told Recode’s Walt Mossberg today at Recode’s Code Conference in Rancho Palos Verdes, California.
Google revealed its own Echo competitor earlier this month, and Apple is also working on an answer to the Echo.
 But Bezos does not seem to be worried about that.
“I think there are going to be a bunch of artificially intelligent agents in the world,” Bezos said. “There are going to be specialties, and you may not ask the same AI for everything. I bet the average household will use a number of these, but to me that’s a very exciting seed that we’ve planted. I love working on stuff like that, and the team is brilliant.” VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Amazon now has more than 1,000 people working on artificial intelligence, Bezos said.
Earlier today, Amazon stock hit an all-time high of $724.23 on the NASDAQ.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
