Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Twitter ends Magic Recs experiment Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A picture shows the search tab for Twitter on a computer screen in Frankfurt.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Twitter’s Magic Recs is no more, at least in its current form. The company’s experiment to provide personalized recommendations on what you should follow is on indefinite hiatus, meaning that you will no longer receive suggestions through direct messages.
First reported by TechCrunch , a Twitter spokesperson confirmed the news, telling VentureBeat: “@MagicRecs is no longer regularly sending recommendations through Direct Message. Recommendations that were previously shared via Direct Message are now delivered via push notification. Users can control recommendation notifications in their mobile notification settings.” Above: What Twitter’s @MagicRecs account sends you by direct message.
Magic Recs first burst onto the scene in 2013 as an account you could follow that delivered “instant, personalized recommendations for users and content via direct message.” It was always branded as an experiment, so it should come to no surprise that the direct message part of the service has been killed. The lessons the company learned from it have likely been invested into the core service to make it better, which people are receiving through push notifications.
This shutdown comes as Twitter is slowly seeing growth among users , but it’s far from in the clear. If the company is looking to be more about live, which chief executive Jack Dorsey said it’s been doing for the past 10 years , then it needs to reinvigorate its base and offer more features to re-engage them and offer a better sense about what Twitter actually is.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
