Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Facebook sued over plans to issue new stock Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
(Reuters) – A Facebook Inc shareholder filed a proposed class action lawsuit on Friday in a bid to stop the company’s plan to issue new Class C stock , calling the move an unfair deal to entrench Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg as controlling shareholder.
The lawsuit, filed in the Delaware Court of Chancery, comes two days after the social networking company announced its plan to issue the shares.
 The rejiggering of Facebook’s share structure, effectively a 3-for-1 stock split, follows the 31 year-old’s announcement last December that he intends to put 99 percent of his Facebook shares into a new philanthropy project focusing on human potential and equality.
The lawsuit contends that a Facebook board committee which approved the share deal “did not bargain hard” with Zuckerberg “to obtain anything of meaningful value” in exchange for granting Zuckerberg added control.
Representatives for Facebook could not immediately be reached for comment.
Facebook plans to create a new class of shares that are publicly listed but do not have voting rights. Facebook will issue two of the so-called “Class C” shares for each outstanding Class A and Class B share held by shareholders. Those new Class C shares will be publicly traded under a new symbol.
Zuckerberg “wishes to retain this power, while selling off large amounts of his stockholdings, and reaping billions of dollars in proceeds,” the lawsuit said.
“The issuance of the Class C stock will, in effect, have the same effect as a grant to Zuckerberg of billions of dollars in equity, for which he will pay nothing,” it said.
Google settled a lawsuit in 2013 shortly before trial which cleared the way for that company to execute a similar plan.
(Reporting by Dan Levine; Editing by Chris Reese, Bernard Orr) VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
