Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Bing for iOS now lets you search the Web with your camera Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Bing image search on iOS.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Microsoft today updated its Bing app for iOS with some very useful functionality: image search using a new photo you take in the app or a photo you have hanging around on your device.
This feature is not yet available on Android or Windows Phone. It isn’t even available from the Google app for iOS or Android, or from Yahoo’s mobile apps, for that matter.
Once you’ve made a photo or selected a photo from your gallery in Bing on iOS, you can crop the image in order to only get search results that are similar to a specific part of the photo. From there, you can share the image through another app or give feedback. Or you can select any photo in the search results and crop it in order to receive new search results. (Hat tip to MSPoweruser for reporting on the app update.) Initial tests suggest that the image recognition technology at the heart of the new feature doesn’t work perfectly — for example, I took a photo of a Mitsubishi logo on a nearby television and got other logos on devices in search results — but it does work well enough for many visual search queries, and more importantly, it’s forward-looking.
“In five years, we think 50 percent of queries will be on speech or images,” said Andrew Ng, the head of Baidu Research, in a talk he gave in 2014.
 ( Baidu’s iOS app does offer visual search, but the app is not currently available in English.) What Google has done in this area is the Google Goggles app, which is still available for Android but hasn’t been updated since May 2014. And it only took a quick guess at identifying an object or a place in an image, rather than offering up full-fledged image search.
Pinterest last year implemented visual search that allow users to crop specific parts of images and then find similar pins.
Bing revamped its iPhone app in November.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
