Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Japan’s leading bitcoin exchange BitFlyer secures $27 million Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Bitcoin Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
( The Bridge ) – Tokyo-based BitFlyer , the company behind a Japanese bitcoin exchange, announced this week that it has secured about $27 million (3 billion yen) from Venture Labo Investment , SBI Investment , and others.
Companies which have participated in this startup’s previous rounds include Recruit Strategic Partners , Quick (financial news provider), Mitsubishi UFJ Capital , Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Venture Capital , Dentsu Digital Holdings , Incubate Fund , East Ventures , Digital Currency Group and GMO Venture Partners.
 The latest funding means that the company’s capital adds up to 3.89 billion yen ($34.9 million) — the second largest among all bitcoin exchange companies around the world according to Coindesk.
The company plans to use the funds to strengthen human resources and expand the service overseas, while shoring up its domestic position. As part of these efforts, they have set up a subsidiary in Luxembourg to better cater to the European market. The Tokyo firm recently launched a bitcoin-based payment gateway for e-commerce sites; this follows their launch of a marketplace for investors dealing with Ethereum-based cryptocurrency Ether.
BitFlyer was founded in January of 2014 by former Goldman Sachs trader Yuzo Kano. The company is a startup but has also launched an investment fund aiming at nurturing other startups focused on blockchain technology. BitFlyer invested in Sivira , the company behind a development platform integrating IoT (Internet of Things) devices and the blockchain, this January in line with the stance.
Edited by “Tex” Pomeroy.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
