Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages SpaceX releases 360-degree video of its Falcon 9 rocket landing on an ocean platform Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn SpaceX's Falcon9R rocket hovers above Texas.
Earlier this month, SpaceX successfully landed its Falcon 9 rocket on a platform out at sea. And while you may have watched it “live,” actually being there is a whole other experience. That’s why the company released a 360-degree video — available on both YouTube and Facebook — that lets fans witness this historic landing as if they were right there.
Whether viewed on your browser, phone, or even using your virtual reality headset, the 360-degree video gives you a front-row seat, as the camera is nicely positioned just feet away from where the rocket lands. You can hear the roar of the engines as it touches down on the platform.
The fourth time was the charm for the firm started by Elon Musk. In spite of coming close on earlier tries, the reusable rocket hadn’t been able to touch down on a moving platform in the ocean. It had been successful on land at Cape Canaveral, of course, but the water made things more complicated.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
