Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft releases open-source Azure IoT Gateway SDK in beta Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A Microsoft Azure IoT T-shirt.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Microsoft today announced the availability of the beta version of the Azure IoT Gateway software development kit (SDK) to make it easier to connect devices to the Internet. The SDK was previously in a private preview after being announced during Microsoft’s Build developer conference in March. Now it’s available on GitHub under an open source MIT license.
An IoT gateway is a piece of hardware that connects to remote devices but also hooks up directly to the Internet. The SDK is intended to aid development for it.
“The Azure IoT Gateway SDK does not place restrictions on the type of gateway solution that can be created,” Sam George, partner director, for Azure IoT at Microsoft, wrote in a blog post.
 “Our IoT philosophy is to support the many different types of operating systems and hardware developers use, so we’ve built the gateway with ANSI C on top of a platform abstraction layer, providing a high performance gateway framework with a portable and cross-platform library that runs on both Windows and Linux.” The idea is to add support for C#, Java, and Node.js, George wrote.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! This isn’t the first open source SDK for working with IoT devices in association with Microsoft’s Azure public cloud. Microsoft has previously released Azure IoT device SDKs for C, Java, .NET, Node, and Python.
Competing cloud infrastructure provider Amazon Web Services has its own AWS IoT service with open source embedded C and JavaScript SDKs. Salesforce and Oracle also have cloud IoT services.
Documentation for the SDK is here.
Also today, Microsoft announced the preview for device management in the Azure IoT Hub service, which was also first announced at Build.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
