Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release Acquisio taps Wellington Financial Fund V for Financing Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn MONTREAL & TORONTO–(BUSINESS WIRE)–April 29, 2016– Acquisio, a world leader in performance marketing solutions for small businesses and the companies who serve them has announced a True Growth Capital financing from Wellington Financial LP, a privately-held specialty finance firm.
Acquisio’s product enables digital marketers to optimize the results of, and report on, their search, social, mobile, and display marketing programs. Acquisio uses machine learning to dramatically improve search marketing results while streamlining and automating the campaign management and reporting process. With more than 400 clients and $2 billion ad spend under management, Acquisio is recognized as being one of the fastest growing companies in North America, winning the Deloitte Tech Fast 500 and Fast 50 awards for five consecutive years. Acquisio’s software is used by category-leading companies like Sensis, Hanapin Marketing, iRep, Yellow Pages and Microsoft.
“With Acquisio’s innovative marketing technology solution for Small Business and for the companies who serve SMBs, along with the large, underserved market opportunity, Acquisio is the perfect candidate for Wellington’s True Growth Capital ,” said Mark McQueen, President & CEO of Wellington Financial LP.
“As Acquisio continues to invest in our core competency of big data science and machine learning technology, having a collaborative partner like Wellington accelerates our ability to scale and deliver ever more differentiated products,” said Acquisio CEO Marc Poirier. “We are extremely happy to be working with Mark McQueen and the team at Wellington to help us execute on our strategic aspirations.” About Wellington Financial LP Wellington Financial LP is a privately-held specialty finance firm providing term, venture and amortizing loans up to $40 million. Wellington Financial LP is currently managing a $900 million investment program with offices in Menlo Park, Santa Monica and Toronto. Wellington Financial LP is managed by a partnership controlled by fund management and Clairvest Group Inc. (CVG:TSX), who jointly have contributed a large financial stake to the Fund. LPs include several of Canada’s largest institutional investors, crown corporations, financial institutions and pension funds. Please visit the fund website at www.wellingtonfund.com.
About Acquisio Acquisio is a high-powered performance marketing solution that enables digital marketers to manage, report, and optimize on all digital advertising initiatives in one easy-to-use dashboard, across search, social, and display.
Serving more than 400 agencies and running 300,000 campaigns and 2.4 million bid adjustments a day, Acquisio is recognized as being one of the fastest growing companies in North America, winning the Deloitte Tech Fast 500 and Fast 50 awards for four consecutive years.
Acquisio has its headquarters in Montreal, and has offices in New York, Seattle, Texas, London, and Tokyo. For more information, contact Acquisio.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
