Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages All of Google’s jokes for April Fools’ Day 2016 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Here we go again. It’s April Fools’ Day, and like every year, Google is doing its best to outdo itself. This is the first year the company is doing so under its new Alphabet parent company , so we’ll see if that has any impact. But if the jokes are anything like in previous years, we’ll see jokes ranging from ridiculously lame to very clever, spanning the simple blog post to the elaborate gag.
Google’s various divisions always create more practical and impractical jokes than any other tech firm, and it’s simply hard to keep track of them all. As a result, we’re back with our usual annual roundup.
Google Japanese Input Physical Flick Version Google Japan announced Furikku, a physical keyboard you flick. Think of it as the hardware version of the Japanese input software for Android. And of course, the circuit board and firmware are open source.
Search your photos using emoji Google Photos has added a feature for April Fools’ Day that might not even be a joke. You can search your photos by inputting emoji. I don’t really see a need for Google to remove this feature since it actually works.
The next revolution in photo search technology is here.
https://t.co/6yLWq9yK7G — Google Photos (@googlephotos) March 31, 2016 Emoji in Inbox Smart Reply Inbox by Gmail has suddenly started giving emoji suggestions instead of text replies. You might be wondering why. Apparently, “emoji do a better job of plumbing the emotional depths of one’s soul, so we’re optimistic that today’s update will encourage more open and honest email conversations.” Gmail Mic Drop That’s not the only new addition to Gmail.
Mic Drop lets you have the last word on any email. If you reply using the new “Send + Mic Drop” button, everyone will receive your message, and then you won’t see any responses afterwards. It’s like a “reply and mute” feature.
Update : The Mic Drop “feature” caused “more headaches than laughs,” so Google turned it off. Users put GIFs into critical emails and were understandably upset with Google.
Google Cardboard Plastic Virtual reality is so yesterday. Today is all about actual reality.
 Google Cardboard was one thing, but Google Cardboard Plastic is even better. “What’s realer than real?” This actual reality headset beats all virtual reality headset because it has 4D integrated perspective, 360° spatially accurate sound, 20/20 resolution, advanced haptics for realistic touch sensations, has no wires, no batteries, and is lightweight and waterproof.
Apps in Space Google Play lets developers now design, test, and distribute their apps and games in space.
 Astronauts and space travelers also need to to get their fix.
1 billion times faster than gigabit At a gigabit, Google Fiber is fast, but not fast enough.
 “Our partners are using the quantum entanglement of the photons that move through our network to make teleportation happen, which is only possible on a pure fiber optic network. Clearly gigabit speeds are too slow.” YouTube SnoopaVision YouTube has added another great feature to all its videos.
SnoopaVision consists of three key features: State of the art 360 technology, immersive theatrical viewing experience, and Snoop Dogg. Oh, and don’t worry if it’s a little wonky — it’s in beta.
realBooks Imagine if you had one device for every ebook you own. Google took an Android device and stripped away every feature and functionality that was getting in the way of reading.
realBooks is for the old school book lovers who want to jump into the 21st century.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E-_U92YX7eA Style Detection for Google Cloud Vision API Style Detection lets Google tell you if what someone is wearing works or doesn’t. “Using millions of hours of deep learning, convolutional neural networks and petabytes of source data, Vision API can now not just identify clothing, but evaluate the nuances of style to a relative degree of uncertainty.” Accuracy ranges between 52 percent and 97 percent.
Google Tag Manager for Real World Tags Google Tag Manager now supports the real world.
 This new feature automagically categorizes and manages your real world tags. Then the cloud does the rest. Bam.
Parachutes by Google Express Sure, drones are probably the future of delivery. But they’re not ready yet. You know what technology is ready? Parachutes.
Self-driving bicycles Self-driving cars are cool, but they’re still cars. Bicycles are the best mode of transportation when it comes to price and the environment, so why not make it so they drive themselves? Google’s got your back.
Google search for your socks Finding your socks can be a pain in the ass. The solution is Searchable Socks , Bluetooth-enabled so that you can locate them easily. In fact, each sock will sing this song.
Chrome Chromebook The Chrome Chromebook is shiny — really shiny. It features tungsten space-grade chrome engineering with revolutionary new microchrome technology, a highly reflective chrome alloy case with two layers of automotive clear-coat for infinite reflections, a platinum white backlit LED keyboard that bounces light off a minimum of seven surfaces before striking the eye, a microfiber sleeve that helps retain that just-unboxed glow, radiant 4k lumen reflective properties, unheard-of pixel density, and a CLED (Chrome Light-Emitting Diode) screen.
Compressing everything Google X has had another brilliant idea: miniaturizing all physical objects. This will dramatically increase global portability, reduce the carbon footprint of everything, and generally fix the world’s problems.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DhVIkvDx9T4 When it comes to April Fools’ Day, Google seems to have a bottomless pit for a marketing budget. We will update this post as the company launches more jokes.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
