Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Playbuzz scores $15 million in funding for sponsored social content Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Playbuzz scored a $16 million round.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Playbuzz said it has raised $15 million in funding from Saban Ventures and Disney for its business of providing sponsored content. Playbuzz helps publishers and content creators distribute their content in ways that boost engagement and social distribution.
For instance, New York-based Playbuzz helps promote sponsored content by distributing it through slide shows, flip cards, galleries, quizzes, lists, and video snaps. Playbuzz says such content generates average item completion rates of up to 94 percent and social share rates as high as 15 percent.
Existing investors 83North, Carmel Ventures, and First Time Ventures also participated in the round. Playbuzz will use the money to further enhance its proprietary content-engagement platform and expand its sponsored content business, which already works with many of the world’s leading brands to create and distribute native advertising campaigns.
“Playbuzz enables publishers and brands to create content that matches today’s content-consumption habits, while generating meaningful engagement and new monetization opportunities,” said Shaul Olmert, cofounder and CEO of Playbuzz, in a statement. “The support of global leaders in media, such as Saban and Disney, will enable us to expand both our editorial reach and sponsored content business.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The Playbuzz platform is used by tens of thousands of publishers, brands, and content creators to generate and distribute content in formats that optimize audience engagement and social distribution. The popularity of content created using Playbuzz is skyrocketing as engagement metrics for things like galleries outpace those of traditional digital formats, such as articles and long-form video.
“Engaging content is the key to media consumption, and Playbuzz has positioned itself as the leading platform for media companies and brands to create and distribute such content across all devices,” said Barak Pridor, managing partner at Saban Ventures, in a statement. “Playbuzz’s unique network and distributed sponsored content offering make it the ideal platform for editorial and commercial growth of its partners.” Pridor joins Playbuzz’s board of directors following this financing round.
Founded in 2012 by Shaul Olmert and Tom Pachys, Playbuzz has 100 employees in its offices in New York, London, Tel Aviv, Hamburg, and Nashville. Rivals include Apester and Qzzr/Boombox. To date, Playbuzz has raised $34.8 million.
Above: Playbuzz publishers GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
