Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Tesla finally unveils the Model 3: its first car for the masses Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The upcoming Tesla Model 3 Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
At long last, here’s our first look at the Tesla Model 3, the company’s debut mass-market electric car, starting at $35,000 and (perhaps) launching next year.
Telsa CEO Elon Musk unveiled the vehicle to the press and relentless devotees during an event at the company’s design studio in Hawthorne, California this evening.
Speaking on stage, Musk boasted about the Model 3’s safety features, claiming the car will be rated “five-stars in every category.” The base model of the car will start at $35,000, Musk reaffirmed, with a 215-mile range, auto-pilot capabilities, a uniquely massive rear window (to make the car feel more spacious), supercharger access, as well as the ability to go from zero to 60 miles per hour “in less than six seconds.” So far 115,000 people have already paid $1,000 to get on the list to buy a Model 3, Musk said — that’s $115 million.
Musk told fans yesterday that today’s event is merely part one of two.
 We’ll learn more about the car as it nears production, Musk said, likely sometime in the distant year of 2017.
Until then, savor every screenshot you can.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
