Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft launches Power BI Embedded in public preview Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Microsoft today announced a free public preview of Power BI Embedded, a version of the Power BI business intelligence (BI) service that can be tucked inside of other applications.
“You can do this without requiring your users to buy or even be aware of what Power BI is,” said Scott Guthrie, executive vice president for Microsoft’s Cloud and Enterprise group, at Microsoft’s Build developer conference in San Francisco this week.
Power BI got its start in the mid-2000s and was relaunched as freemium software early in 2015.
This news isn’t much of a surprise. Other BI software companies, like Birst, Pentaho, and Tableau have their own embeddable offerings. But this is a nonetheless a big and sensible step forward for Power BI, which competes with the Salesforce Wave Analytics Cloud , among others.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The tool is available for free until May 1, said Lara Rubbelke, Power BI Embedded engineer lead.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
