Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft denies Edge is getting a native ad blocker Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
On top of the slew of news coming out of Microsoft’s Build 2016 developer conference , a story broke yesterday that Microsoft was building an ad blocker into its Microsoft Edge browser. While this would be a big deal, it apparently isn’t true. “We have no plans to build a native ad blocker into Microsoft Edge,” a Microsoft spokesperson told VentureBeat.
Ed Bott of ZDNet fame found the nugget of information in a slide during a session titled “Microsoft Edge: What’s Next for Microsoft’s New Browser and Web Platform.” As you can see below, item 4 clearly indicates plans to “build ad blocking features into the browser.” Above: Line 4 caught Bott’s attention Microsoft is now labeling the slide as misleading, saying that it was simply referencing the fact that the company is building extension support into Edge. In other words, ad blocking is still coming, but it will work exactly like in any other desktop browser. Microsoft is not taking the bold step of offering a browser with ad blocking built in — at least for now, that will remain limited to niche browsers like Brave, from Mozilla cofounder Brendan Eich , and Adblock Browser , which is really just Firefox for Android with Adblock Plus.
Two weeks ago, Microsoft released a new Windows 10 preview build with Edge extension support , arguably the most important feature missing from the new browser. The company only released three extensions to testers (Mouse Gestures, Microsoft Translator, and Reddit Engagement Suite), promising more were on the way, including AdBlock and Adblock Plus.
Support for extensions was supposed to arrive by the end of 2015, but the feature was delayed until this year.
 Microsoft still hasn’t shared how long it plans to let testers play with it before releasing the functionality to all Windows 10 users, but apparently, according to yesterday’s misleading slide, the Edge team is targeting “the next version.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
