Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft announces new Edge extensions: Pinterest, Adblock Plus, LastPass, Amazon Assistant, Evernote, and more Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Microsoft today announced a slew of incoming Edge extensions. Partners announced include Pinterest, AdBlock, Adblock Plus, LastPass, Amazon Assistant, Evernote, and Page Analyzer powered by Vorlon.js.
Exactly two weeks ago, Microsoft released a new Windows 10 preview build with Edge extension support , arguably the most important feature missing from Microsoft’s new browser. But the company only released three extensions: Mouse Gestures, Microsoft Translator, and Reddit Enhancement Suite.
Support for extensions was supposed to arrive by the end of 2015, but the feature was delayed until this year.
 Microsoft still hasn’t shared how long it plans to let testers play with it before releasing the functionality to all Windows 10 users.
Unlike Internet Explorer’s native add-ons, Edge’s extension platform is powered by web technologies. Microsoft has also made it easy for developers to port their Chrome extensions over to Edge.
Once the feature debuts, all extensions will be vetted, delivered, and managed through the Windows Store. Until then, extensions need to be sideloaded manually.
On the whole, today’s announcement at Build 2016 is rather disappointing. Having a total of just 10 Edge extensions is a joke. Microsoft needs to ramp this up, and quickly, or Edge extensions won’t be much more exciting than IE add-ons.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
