Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Bluebee lands $11.4 million for cloud-based DNA analysis platform Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
DNA analytics startup Bluebee has closed a Series A funding round of €10 million (about $11.4 million) from investors Capricorn ICT Arkiv , Korys , and Biover II. Prior backer Buysse & Partners also participated in the round.
The Dutch company specialises in genomic analysis and provide cloud-based performance solutions to researchers, labs, and diagnostic companies. According to the startup, the new funds will be used to further develop its platform.
Above: Bluebee management team, Image credit: Bluebee “This funding will significantly boost our capacity to support our growth,” said Bluebee CEO Hans Cobben, adding that the startup has seen rapid growth in its customer base since 2014.
Bluebee has also appointed Annie Vereecken, founder of AML-Labo Riatol labs and head of Biover II who has invested in this round, to its board of advisors.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! The Delft-based startup expects to see a growth in demand for genomics, the study and sequencing of an organism’s genome, in the coming year at an “industrial scale”.
“When genomics become more standard, clinicians and lab researchers will have less interest in delving into the nuts and bolts of the bioinformatics process, and will expect a secure service that is highly scalable and that just works,” says Hans Cobben.
“We enable virtually unlimited scaling up of sequencing capacity while respecting requirements for localised data processing and storage, which is a first in this industry.” This post first appeared on Tech.eu.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
