Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Raspberry Pi 3 microcomputer with Bluetooth and Wi-Fi goes on sale for $35 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn RaspBerry Pi Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The Raspberry Pi Foundation has launched the Raspberry Pi 3, a third-generation model of the popular Raspberry Pi mini computer.
Priced at $35, the Raspberry Pi 3 boasts many of the same features as its predecessor, including HDMI, ethernet, and 4 USB ports. But the latest incarnation also lays out the red carpet for built-in wireless support, Bluetooth 4.0, and a faster 1.2GHz, 64-bit, quad-core ARMv8 processor. The Raspberry Pi 3 goes on sale for the same price as the Pi 2, so deciding which to opt for is a no-brainer, should you find yourself in the market for one of these devices.
Above: Raspberry Pi 3 If you’re new to Raspberry Pi, the credit card-sized contraption is designed as an easy point of entry for budding programmers and hackers. It has come a long way since its inception way back in 2012 — four years ago to the day.
It initially only supported a handful of operating systems, including Linux, but a processor upgrade in the Raspberry Pi 2 last February means it now supports Windows, too.
 This essentially opened up the opportunities for what you can do with the microcomputer, transforming it into a machine capable of many of the same things as a traditional PC. And back in September, Raspberry Pi unveiled a new 7″ touchscreen display , making it easier for tech tinkerers to build their own tablets or other devices that rely on visual outputs.
More than eight million Raspberry Pi units have shipped in the past four years, and the Raspberry Pi Foundation now has more than 60 employees.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
