Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Facebook’s Moments app hits 400M photos shared, now supports video sharing Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
You can now share videos with your friends within Facebook’s Moments app. The company released an update today for the photo-sharing app today and said that in the coming weeks, it’ll launch an ability to include videos in Moments slideshows. The addition of video support comes as Facebook revealed more than 400 million photos have been shared through the app since its launch in June.
A standalone app, Facebook Moments syncs with your camera roll and uses face recognition and location to group photos together so you can share them with the right friends. So if you’re attending a party and everyone is taking pictures there, you won’t have to scramble to get your friends to share them later on — it just goes into Moments.
Created in Facebook’s Creative Labs, Facebook Moments has grown into a useful tool for sharing photos, especially among a group of friends. It simplifies mass sharing while leveraging the enormous power of its social graph. The company told us that out of the 400 million photos that have been shared in Moments to date, over 100 million came just in the past month.
Video support is available today on Facebook Moments’ iOS and Android apps.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
