Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Japan’s telemedicine and drug delivery platform Port Medical raises $7.9 million Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
( The Bridge ) – Tokyo-based Port is preparing for the beta launch of Port Medical , a telemedicine platform allowing chronic patients to consult a doctor online. The company announced today that it has fundraised 900 million yen (about $7.9 million) from Eight Roads Ventures Japan (previously known as Fidelity Growth Partners Japan), Mitsubishi UFJ Capital , and Global Brain.
Port has been serving businesses with employment consulting services through the leveraging of social media as well as offering several vertical media sites such as CareerPark (tips for career building) and Tabimo (travel tips). The company learned of many issues in the healthcare and medical sectors through Medicil , a health and beauty tips website launched back last November, and then launched the Port Medical platform to address these issues. The latest funds will be used to improve media content, strengthen technology capability, and launch new businesses.
Port is expecting to attract 30 million readers for vertical media sites during 2016, expanding into other sectors beyond career building, travel, healthcare, and financial topics. They are planning to develop a recommendation engine using natural language processing and artificial intelligence (AI) for their existing and new services. Regarding the Port Medical platform, the company claims it will be more focused on partnering with governments, hospitals, and other stakeholders in the medical industry.
Translated by Masaru Ikeda, edited by “Tex” Pomeroy VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
