Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Spanish social advertising company Adsmurai raises $4.2 million Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Barcelona-based social advertising company Adsmurai has received €4 million ($4.2 million) in a second round of funding led by venture capital firm Axon Partners Group , with participation from Banc Sabadell, through its program BStartup10 , and Enisa , a Spanish government-funded financing group.
Launched in 2014 by Marc Elena, Otto Wüst and Juan Antonio Robles, Adsmurai specializes in generating and optimizing advertising campaigns on social networks. A partner of Facebook, Instagram, YouTube and Twitter, the company manages its clients’ ad campaigns on these platforms for an approximate value of €20 million.
Adsmurai is headquartered in Barcelona and has offices in Madrid, Mexico, Colombia and Peru.
The company intends to put the funds toward the development and improvement of their services using artificial intelligence applied to image recognition, as well as to promote their international expansion, with a focus on Europe.
Read more: WebCapitalRiesgo You can subscribe to Tech.eu’s newsletter here.
This story originally appeared on Tech.eu.
 Copyright 2016 VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
