Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages New Samsung patent shows off a phone that unfolds into a tablet (with bonus Apple cameo) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has just published an application from Samsung (via 9to5Mac ) that attempts to patent a foldable electronic device. It’s likely that one of the examples depicted in the application represents the company’s upcoming foldable smartphone, dubbed Project Valley.
First revealed by SamMobile , the so-called Project V (thus named to reflect the shape of the handset in mid-fold) goes by model number SM-G929F, just one digit higher than the SM-G928F Galaxy S6 edge+. While several foldable and rollable configurations are shown in the patent application, the one most frequently depicted is a horizontal clamshell whose single fold opens in the same manner as a book or magazine.
It’s not clear, however, how the screens will be oriented on the handset itself; either the device will fold in such a manner that the two halves of the screen are touching when closed, or in the opposite configuration, where the screens both face outward at all times. A 2014 concept video created for Samsung utilizes the former configuration, wherein the display is completely protected when folded over itself.
Also of note in the patent application, due mostly to irony, is the inclusion of an iPod icon, of all things, on one of the diagrams. While Samsung and Apple maintain a business relationship with respect to component production, Cupertino also famously sued its partner in several jurisdictions over alleged patent infringement regarding several proprietary iPhone technologies.
According to SamMobile , Valley will be sold in several European countries (the U.K., Germany, Italy, France, Poland) and Nordic nations, as well as its homeland of South Korea. A U.S. release, however, does not seem to be in the cards. The last experimental handset launched by Samsung, 2013’s curved Galaxy Round, never made it outside of the Korean market.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
