Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter WIRED Staff Gear Welcome to Apple’s Dynamic Island Photograph: Apple Save this story Save Save this story Save At a splashy media event this week, Apple announced four configurations of the new iPhone 14, as well as some new Apple Watches and an update to the wireless AirPod Pro. Many of the changes were iterative—some tweaks to phone design here, a new software feature there—but the biggest surprise was the new Apple Watch Ultra, a big, rugged, and expensive version of the wearable that’s aimed at adventurous types like climbers, distance runners, and scuba divers.
This week on Gadget Lab, we dig into everything Apple announced this week, including new iPhones 14, AirPods, and that new Apple Watch Ultra.
Photograph: Julian Chokkattu Check out our roundup of everything Apple announced during Wednesday’s event. Read Adrienne So on the Apple Watch Ultra competing with Garmin and other premium smartwatch brands. Matt Burgess digs into passkeys replacing passwords in iOS, iPadOS, and macOS. Watch the event and see our live coverage in our Apple event liveblog.
 Follow WIRED’s coverage of all the Apple news.
Julian recommends portable monitors like those from Espresso , Innocn , or the ones we tested for our Work From Home buying guide.
 Mike recommends maybe doing the planet a solid by not buying a new iPhone this year unless you absolutely need to upgrade.
Julian Chokkattu can be found on Twitter @ julianchokkattu.
 Michael Calore is @ snackfight.
 Lauren Goode is @ LaurenGoode and will be back next week. Bling the main hotline at @ GadgetLab.
 The show is produced by Boone Ashworth (@ booneashworth ). Our theme music is by Solar Keys.
You can always listen to this week's podcast through the audio player on this page, but if you want to subscribe for free to get every episode, here's how: If you're on an iPhone or iPad, open the app called Podcasts, or just tap this link.
 You can also download an app like Overcast or Pocket Casts, and search for Gadget Lab. If you use Android, you can find us in the Google Podcasts app just by tapping here.
 We’re on Spotify too. And in case you really need it, here's the RSS feed.
Michael Calore : Hey everybody, this is Mike. Lauren is out this week, but we've got a special guest and we're going to be talking all about Apple, so stick around.
[Gadget Lab intro theme music plays] Michael Calore : Hi everyone, welcome to Gadget Lab. I am Michael Calore, I'm a senior editor at WIRED. Lauren Good is out reporting this week, but I am pleased to say that I am joined here in the room by WIRED reviews editor Julian Chokkattu. Julian, hello.
Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Julian Chokkattu : Hello, it is very nice to be here face to face.
Michael Calore : Sharing the same air.
Julian Chokkattu : Yes.
Michael Calore : Well, it's great to have you here, and here in California, it is quite warm.
Julian Chokkattu : Yes, I came perfectly during a heat wave. I love it.
Michael Calore : So we are recording this on Wednesday, the afternoon of September 7th. Just a few hours ago Apple announced its new iPhone lineup, just like it does every September. Apple also announced a new rugged Apple Watch called the Ultra, along with the regular Apple watches that we were expecting. Julian, I want to get right into it because you were there in person at Apple headquarters in Cupertino, but it was 97 degrees in Cupertino today, is that right? Julian Chokkattu : Yes. Well, it was going up to there. Thankfully, the Steve Jobs Theater is quite cool. It's underground, so thankfully it was not too hot. But yeah, the event was pretty much exactly like the event back in 2019, it felt the same, prepandemic. We had to send in a Covid test the day before and upload that, and some company certified that. But no one had to wear a mask, it was all optional. Some people did, but obviously I would say 90 percent of people did not wear masks. And you know, it was sitting next to a hundred other people in the theater and watching Tim Cook take this stage—but this is where things differed—instead of an actual live event, like what maybe a lot of people thought might be happening, finally, it was all prerecorded. So Tim Cook physically did come on stage for the first minute, and then he cued the screen, and just like WWDC, we were all in the theater watching a movie, basically. It was— Michael Calore : A big infomercial. A big, 90-minute— Julian Chokkattu : Pretty much. A little weird. I mean, I know that it was popular, but I also feel like it would've been great, if I flew in here, that there was going to be an actual normal, typical Apple event. But I don't know if that's ever going to come back at this point. It seems like they are very happy with how prerecording tapes go, and I guess it's way less work for their part in terms of rehearsals or anything like that. So it seems like prerecorded Apple events are going to be the future.
Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Michael Calore : And it is kind of creepy to watch those prerecorded videos because all of the narration is voiceover, and they’re zooming in on people standing in the middle of the mountains or people on busy subway trains and their voice sounds absolutely perfect and the lip syncing is eerily perfect. Everything about it is so clean, it really makes me miss the sort of unexpected factor that comes with a live event.
Julian Chokkattu : Yeah. There are no awkward gaffs, there are no weird mistakes or anything like that. It’s so clean, so perfect, very automated. I guess that is what Apple has kind of been known for, and I guess that’s kind of good for them, but, yeah, no, it’s definitely not as fun as physically seeing people show up on stage and seeing what they have to say.
Michael Calore : We should talk about the iPhones first, because we were all expecting the Apple Watch Ultra to really steal the show today, but the iPhone 14 Pro had some great features that were also pretty impressive.
Julian Chokkattu : Yes. So the biggest crazy feature on the iPhone 14 Pro is that the notch, the infamous iPhone notch, which started with the iPhone 10, is finally gone. Now, like most Android phones, I will have to say, there is a hole punch cutout or a little pill-shaped thing that sits at the top center of the display, and that's where the face ID camera is housed. Basically it's a lot slimmer, it takes up so much less space on the iPhone compared to a notch, but Apple is doing some unique things with it. It's called the Dynamic Island—that is what it was called, yes. It's confusing for me because I have a coffee shop next to my apartment back in Brooklyn called Trash Island, and that's all I think about when I hear Dynamic Island.
Michael Calore : I think about Fantasy Island.
Julian Chokkattu : Sure, yeah. It’s just a strange name. But I guess they’re not wrong, it is an island in a sea of a display—there is a camera there. But what they're doing is, they are optimizing the area around the camera to make it more useful when you’re doing passive things. So for example, if you start playing some music, now you’ll see “Now Playing” album art—with the squiggly line for the music that’s going through—show up right on that little pill. And let’s say, if you started a timer at the same time, now you’ll see a little second circle showing up next to the pill that shows the timer. So that way, in any app that you’re in, you can quickly see that information. Also the same thing for, if you get a phone call and you go away from the phone call screen—you can basically press and hold that little Dynamic Island area and it will expand to show you more call controls and things like that.
Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Honestly, I think it's a smart idea. It looks amazing and it feels very fluid, way better than a notch that kind of used to just take up a lot of space for not much of a reason other than Face ID, but it was kind of dead space. But now they've kind of taken that around and made it very useful. So I really liked that. And also with the iPhone 14 Pro, similarly with the display, it’s now an always-on display, which I will say Android phones have had for a long time, but it's nice to not have to, I guess, tap your phone and see the notifications or the time, and you can always see it. And of course, if you don't want that, then you can turn it off or not have it turned on.
Michael Calore : Earlier today when we were watching the presentation in the office and reporting on it, somebody in the office asked me, "What does always-on display mean?" And I pulled out my Pixel to show them.
Julian Chokkattu : Yes. Yeah, it has been a long time. And it's one of those things that you're just like, that's a weird headline feature for 2022, but cool, awesome to see Apple finally get on board with it.
Michael Calore : I really do think that the Dynamic Island is something that's going to move the needle across all different phones. I think you'll see more phones doing that now, because it's very creative thinking.
Julian Chokkattu : Yes.
Michael Calore : Like you said, taking this area of the screen that has just been a dead zone and turning it into something that's actually kind of fun and interesting and useful.
Julian Chokkattu : Yeah. I mean the most we've seen on the Android side is some companies have a little light that goes around the little cutout so that you can indicate it when you're taking a video selfie or taking a photo—it sort of just lights up that circle so that you know where to look basically. But no one has ever done something like this where it's actually way more than that and adding a lot more utilities, so really cool.
Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Michael Calore : It also stands, I think, in pretty stark contrast to a lot of the things that other phone manufacturers have been doing around notifications, like putting notifications on the back of the phone, making LEDs light up around the outside of the phone.
Julian Chokkattu : Right, yeah. No, I mean, I think this is definitely one of the best iterations and versions of that that we've seen. And yeah, I'm waiting for someone else to start copying that and doing the same exact thing on the Android side.
Michael Calore : Well, when's the next Samsung event? Julian Chokkattu : Four months.
Michael Calore : Oh, did I just say that out loud? So I do want to talk about the cameras, especially on the Pro, because one of the things that Apple claimed for the iPhone 14 Pro is that its camera now has a crazy big sensor that enables it to have twice the performance for low light photos, and a lot of other stats that they named about what's improved. But the low light photos were the thing that really jumped out at me.
Julian Chokkattu : Right. I mean, that is something that I will have to take some time to unpack because they basically called it a “photonic engine.” I have zero clue what that means. I believe it’s just a restructuring of how they do image processing, and they’re saying, two times better low light performance for all the cameras. And in general, with the hardware and software combined, you can expect much better, brighter, sharper photos. But with the iPhone 14 Pro, for the first time ever, the primary camera is no longer a 12-megapixel sensor. So, for the first time, now it's a 48-megapixel sensor, which again, I will say that a lot of Android phones have multi-megapixel cameras. Having more megapixels doesn't always mean that you're going to get a better photo, but it's Apple, and I would assume that they've leveraged the bigger sensor, the more megapixels to deliver nicer, sharper images.
They are doing what all the other Android phone makers are doing, which is a feature called pixel binning. And what that means is they are merging the pixels so that they can absorb more light. And then you'll still end up with a 12-megapixel image, so your file sizes might be a little bigger, but they should be quite similar to what you've already experienced. But they did say that if you go into ProRAW mode and shoot in that mode for more control over your images, you can actually shoot in the complete 48-megapixel mode and get the super high fidelity images that you probably want. So there are options, but it's just one of those things where you really have to just sit and use it and see what it's like to see how much better it is than the predecessors.
Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Michael Calore : Right. And we should note that the phones are coming out later this month.
Julian Chokkattu : Yes. So I believe you can preorder them all starting on Friday. Weirdly, all of the phones are going to be available officially on September 16th, except for the iPhone 14 Plus, which is another thing that maybe we should quickly mention, is that, yeah, there's no iPhone 14 Mini, there is just an iPhone 14 Plus. And I assume that's because the iPhone 13 Mini and the iPhone 12 Mini were just not popular and people want big screens. So now there's an iPhone 14 Plus and it's 6.7 inches, just like the iPhone 14 Pro Max. It's all very confusing now, there are just way too many different names. But that one is going to be available on October 7th. So it's coming a little later—I assume there are some supply chain constraints or something.
I mean, I will say though, that the iPhone 14 versus the iPhone 14 Pro—there's almost very little that's new in the iPhone 14. So if you were looking to upgrade from an iPhone 13, absolutely do not do that. I think it's using the same chip as last year, except with an extra graphics core or something so it's a little more powerful, but pretty much the same phone as last year's iPhone 13, I'd say, with some improvements to the camera. Yeah.
Michael Calore : All right, let's take a break. And when we come back, we're going to unpack the rest of Apple's announcements.
[Break] Michael Calore : All right, I think we've said about all the interesting things that there is to say about the phones. So let's talk about the watches. You got to wear the watches at the hands-on area after the event.
Julian Chokkattu : Yes.
Michael Calore : You got to strap them onto your wrist and hold them. Look at them closely.
Julian Chokkattu : Yes.
Michael Calore : What stood out to you? Julian Chokkattu : Well, can I start by saying that nothing about the Series 8 stood out to me? I mean, I'm sure it's going to be a great Apple Watch for most people. And everyone, if you want to upgrade to that, then go ahead. But obviously the thing we have to talk about is the Apple Watch Ultra, which was rumored to be called Apple Watch Pro, but of course we need a new name, everything’s “pro” nowadays. So Ultra is a huge watch—I believe it’s 49 millimeters. So it’s pretty big. I have larger wrists so it felt fine to me. The Alpine strap is really nice, very soft and thin, and it was almost like putting on a little shirt, it was really nice. And it didn’t feel too heavy or bulky.
Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft I really like the fact that the entire edge of the smartwatch is protected by the titanium case, and so there's no worry of, if you accidentally hit your wrist on a wall, that you would scratch the screen or something like that. And it's just the most rugged thing ever. It's super protective, very strong. It has super accurate GPS. It has better diving, water resistance, so you can take it to up to 40 meters, I believe. All of these features that are clearly meant for the most active people on the planet, which—unfortunately, my fear is that everyone's going to want the Apple Watch Ultra because it's just cool and different.
Michael Calore : Yeah, probably.
Julian Chokkattu : You absolutely should not get it though, because it's $799 and it's expensive. Obviously the killer feature here is the fact that they're claiming 36-hour battery life, and the Apple Watch generally has had poor battery life. So I think a lot of people will flock to this just to be able to have better battery life, although they did introduce a new low power mode which will increase the standard Apple Watch Series 8 battery to 36 hours while disabling certain key features, like auto workout detection. But the Apple Watch Ultra standard battery life is 36 hours, according to them. So I think a lot of people will upgrade to that for the mere fact that they can have an Apple Watch that they don't have to charge every day.
Michael Calore : We should note that when the next version of watchOS comes out, that low power mode that extends the battery life will also go back to older watches, I think up to Series 4 and later—Series 5 and later is correct.
Julian Chokkattu : Right, yeah. So you don't have to upgrade if you want that extra feature. Honestly, it is kind of weird that they haven't had some type of a low power mode until now, but you know.
Michael Calore : Well, I mean the battery life is still a pretty big deal, I think, because 36 hours is good for an all day hike or maybe an overnight camping trip, one overnight camping trip. And even if you put the Ultra into low power mode to get 60 hours, that's still less than three days.
Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Julian Chokkattu : Right. And Adrienne So, our colleague, constantly talks about how Garmins can last for weeks, if not more. So yeah, they still aren't really capturing a particular type of audience that just wants a watch that can last for a long, long time, but this is a step forward. It does suck that you have to spend this much and also have to get such a huge thing to last that long, but hopefully that means next year we'll see some type of improvement that comes down to the standard Apple Watch, that maybe the battery life for that one will be two days.
Michael Calore : You have to switch wrists every other day if you buy an Apple Watch Ultra so that one arm doesn't end up bigger than the other.
Julian Chokkattu : Yeah, exactly.
Michael Calore : I mean, it is a step forward. It's also a step in a new category, because the price of it, $799—that puts it into what the smartwatch world calls the premium smartwatch category. Apple dominates the sub-$500 smartwatch category—they own something like 36 percent of the market share there. But when you get into premium, the main brand is Garmin, because Garmin sells a lot of watches between $500 and $1,000. So Apple Watch Ultra is going to start competing for that space, and may very well dominate that space and relegate Garmin to second place there. But I think it's important to note that they're going after this category of watches that have all of these crazy capabilities, but those watches that Apple's competing against, they're not Apple watches. They don't have the nice UX, they don't run apps.
Julian Chokkattu : Right. And I think that's where they're going to maybe win out at the end— better connectivity with the iPhone, more seamlessness, better user interface. All of that stuff, I think, is definitely going to contribute to a lot of people maybe not caring that their Garmin can last for a whole other week than the Apple Watch Ultra, but that it just looks nicer, it looks better, and they'll just go for that.
Michael Calore : I love the bright orange.
Julian Chokkattu : Yeah. No, it really does look nice. I love the sort of flat sides to it. The overall design in general looks really attractive, but it's the same price as an iPhone.
Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Michael Calore : Yeah, exactly the same price as an iPhone.
Julian Chokkattu : That's just kind of nuts.
Michael Calore : I mean, you know how it is, if you want it you're going to buy it, no matter who you are.
Julian Chokkattu : Yeah, I know. Yes. I mean, I am happy that I will have no urge to buy it because I am nothing like Adrienne, our colleague. I'm not going on three day hikes or anything like that.
Michael Calore : Or five day hikes.
Julian Chokkattu : Or five day hikes.
Michael Calore : Or dives in the ocean.
Julian Chokkattu : Yes, I'm not scuba diving.
Michael Calore : Or you don't own a boat.
Julian Chokkattu : No, I just scooter around New York and that's the most I do. But I'm sure I will see tons of people in New York with an Apple Watch Ultra.
Michael Calore : Absolutely. And here in the land of Allbirds, we will see a lot of them. I know that for sure. I'll see a lot of them on my daily runs, that's for sure. But no, the orange is such a great move because not only is it nice to have something that's brightly colored in the outdoors, just because when you're covered in snow or when you're underwater, it really pops. But also it's just so badass.
Julian Chokkattu : Yeah, also the feature where you can switch the display to go into that red color so that it's easier visibility, all you have to do is—it only works with the Wayfinder watch face at the moment, so you have to use that, but you just scroll the crown down and it switches to that mode and everything looks—well, it's supposed to make it look easier to read in certain conditions.
Michael Calore : Yeah, and it doesn't blow your night vision. So if your eyes have adjusted to the dark, looking at a red light is fine. It won't make you have to readjust.
Julian Chokkattu : Yes, it looks very slick and it was very nice. Yeah, I mean, it's just a really nice watch and I wish Apple had brought some of that stuff over into the Series 8 to make that watch feel a little more distinct.
Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Michael Calore : The Series 8 does have a cool new back case that matches the color of the front, is that right? Julian Chokkattu : I have no idea. That's how little I basically—I just threw that out of my mind. The Apple Watch Ultra, I focused on that. I will say the Series 8 does have new features, like car crash detection was another big thing. That was another big theme throughout the event, car crash detection.
Michael Calore : Oh god, they scared the shit out of everybody.
Julian Chokkattu : Yeah, exactly. Also, I will say that the whole theme of the event was supposed to be “far out”—the invites had these celestial galaxies and stars all over. I was hoping for some type of stargazing type feature, or— Michael Calore : Astrophotography mode.
Julian Chokkattu : Astrophotography mode, yeah. No, it’s just, you’re stuck in the middle of nowhere and that’s what all of Apple’s new gadgets will help you with, which, great, but I don’t think it fit the theme of “far out,” at least what I was thinking of.
Michael Calore : I thought it was—after watching the presentation—I thought it was, you can go far out, you can go on these extreme adventures now.
Julian Chokkattu : Right, but the whole star thing just threw me off, I don't like it.
Michael Calore : We'll have to have a word with Apple marketing about all of this. All right, well, we don't have a lot of time left, but should we talk about AirPods Pro? Is there anything interesting to say about those? Julian Chokkattu : Yes and no, mostly no. It is a new chip and it sounds better in terms of active noise cancellation, that was definitely improved. It's hard to say by exactly how much without having put them side by side, but it did a pretty good job of silencing a lot of people around me when I was there. But honestly—there's six hours of listening time, is the battery life claim that they're saying. That should have been way higher in my opinion, because most earbuds these days can get up to nine, sometimes even more. So for Apple to just bump it up slightly is kind of a weird move after several years of not having an AirPods Pro. So overall I thought that was kind of a weaker update. But I mean, it's still the AirPods Pro, they're still pretty good. They're very easy to pair with and they're pretty feature-rich and nice if you have other Apple products, so I'm sure it'll sell just as well.
Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Michael Calore : Solid. You can charge it on an Apple Watch puck now, too.
Julian Chokkattu : Yes.
Michael Calore : Have you been able to do that, or is that— Julian Chokkattu : I believe that's new. There's also a speaker in the case now, so that if you ever lose the case it beeps very loudly. I think getting lost is just the whole theme of this event, about losing your case somewhere, losing yourself somewhere.
Michael Calore : Yeah, if you're not careful, you may end up drifting all the way to Dynamic Island.
Julian Chokkattu : Oh yes, god. Yeah, that's good.
Michael Calore : There will be two people standing on the beach in white suits welcoming you to Dynamic Island. I just can't get over it. All right, well, let's take another break and when we come back, we'll do our recommendations.
[Break] Michael Calore : All right, welcome back. Julian, you've been on the show a bunch of times, you know the routine. You're our guest, you have to give us a recommendation. Tell the people a thing that they might enjoy.
Julian Chokkattu : OK. Well, I think a portable display is something that might be worthwhile, especially if you're someone who is hybrid working, if you are sometimes going into the office and sometimes working from home—which, I think, a lot of people are in that weird state right now, since a lot of companies are potentially mandating returning to the office and some of them are just not. So portable displays is basically just exactly what it sounds like. It's a monitor, but without the stand. You do get a little case sometimes to keep it propped up, or you can get your own little kickstand. And they plug with one single USB-C cable into your laptop, and voilà, you have a second screen to take with you wherever. They're quite thin usually, so it's not too hard to just stuff it next to your laptop in your backpack. And I like it because I have grown way too accustomed to having multiple screens to work with at home. And so— Michael Calore : You do have a strong screen game.
Julian Chokkattu : I do. I have an ultrawide and a vertical monitor for my left, and that just gives me all the screen space I need for everything at once. And suddenly going on the road and just working off of a tiny laptop screen is just not cutting it out for me.
Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Michael Calore : Dude.
Julian Chokkattu : I'm spoiled. I'm spoiled. So now I just hook up ... I mean, I look like a douche, I will say. I literally go to a coffee shop and I take out my little portal display and stick it next to my laptop. So I look like maybe someone from back in the day who would bring their whole desktop computer to a coffee shop or something like that, but it's nice. I think they're pretty lightweight, they're getting better and nicer looking and sharper. And if you are someone who just likes seeing all of your stuff in multiple different screens, and I think generally second screens exponentially increase your workflow output and just make everything easier, so I strongly recommend. I guess if you want a specific recommendation you can go to our work from home gear guide on Wired.com. I am currently using the Espresso display. I don't know why it's called Espresso, but it's one of the thinnest displays in the world, and it's very lightweight. It is pricey though, it's about $499.
Michael Calore : $499. Are there cheaper ones? Julian Chokkattu : There are a lot cheaper ones. Yeah, there's—I don't know how to say the brand name, I keep forgetting—but it's Innocn, I-N-N-O-C-N. I've tried a couple of the portable displays.
Michael Calore : It's like innocent with a silent T.
Julian Chokkattu : Yes. And they have some very affordable displays, OLEDs even. And yeah, I mean, I think any type of screen—it doesn't have to be amazing, it just lets you put a lot of your windows into a different area and lets you multitask.
Michael Calore : Nice.
Julian Chokkattu : Yeah. What's your recommendation? Michael Calore : I'm going to recommend that, maybe, don't buy a new phone this year.
Julian Chokkattu : That's totally valid advice.
Michael Calore : Yeah. We were talking about this earlier, during the presentation. Apple always shows all these slides about how environmentally responsible they are and how they're doing their best to—they don't put chargers in the box anymore, they have minimal packaging now, they've stepped up their use of recycled materials. But every device that you have, an iPhone, or an Android phone, or a Pixel phone, or an Apple watch, or a Garmin watch—no matter what it is, it's going to be using rare earth minerals that are mined. It's going to be used in a lot of materials that cannot be and are never recycled, so you're still not doing the planet any favors by adhering to this upgrade cycle that all of the Big Tech companies are encouraging us to stick with. There are people who go out and buy a new iPhone every year. You don't need to do that.
Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Julian Chokkattu : No.
Michael Calore : I mean, even if you're paranoid about having last year's camera, it's still like, you're not really getting as much benefit out of the new camera as you might think you are. I mean, maybe you are, I don't know, maybe you're a professional videographer or something.
Julian Chokkattu : Right, but that's the outlier. Most people are just posting to Instagram. And honestly, you're probably not going to notice a difference from last year's iPhone or this year's iPhone.
Michael Calore : Yeah, your camera's not going to make you hotter. Just get a ring light. But yeah, obviously you know if you need a new phone. And if you're missing out on key security features, if your phone is not supported anymore, or if you're still stuck with a phone that doesn't have a really good biometric authentication or whatever, or if your battery only lasts three hours, then yeah, get a new phone. But use your phone until you reach that point, is what I'm saying. So it's days like today where we all feel that burning desire to buy the new thing, and I'm saying, just throw a glass of water on that, think about the environment and think about how much stuff you buy in general all the time. And our recommendations are often, "Hey, buy a thing." So I'm saying, maybe take the money that you would've spent on an iPhone and buy something else that's not going to hurt the environment.
Julian Chokkattu : Sure, or nothing.
Michael Calore : Or nothing.
Julian Chokkattu : I mean, I'm proud of our social media editor, Alicia. She still rocks an iPhone 8 Plus.
Michael Calore : Oh, yes. The fingerprint sensor.
Julian Chokkattu : Yes. And she was there at our event and it was working fine, flawlessly. So that is a, what, four or five year old phone? And yeah, so you definitely don't have to upgrade if your phone is working and perfectly fine right now.
Michael Calore : But also Alicia might be a bad example, because she shoots TikToks for a living and she's like, "I am absolutely getting the new iPhone." Julian Chokkattu : That's true. Well, I mean, completely valid for her, she's due an upgrade.
Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Michael Calore : All right, so I'll say if you're on the fence and if you're one of those people who always comes up to me at parties and says, "Should I get the new iPhone?" My answer is like, "Nah, probably not." Sorry, but probably not. The one you have is probably fine, and if it's not, you know. And just buy a new one, and then use that for five years, maybe four years.
Julian Chokkattu : Yeah. Yeah, I mean Apple supports their devices for a long time. Four or five years, that sounds good.
Michael Calore : Yeah. Yeah. They're committed to keeping old iPhones in circulation, so honor that.
Julian Chokkattu : Yeah, exactly. Good advice. Good job.
Michael Calore : Thanks. And then buy a portable display.
Julian Chokkattu : Whoops.
Michael Calore : Well that's all the time we have. Julian, thank you for braving the beautiful California weather.
Julian Chokkattu : Wonderful weather, thank you. Thank you very much for having me.
Michael Calore : And for joining us. It's going to cool off as soon as you fly home, I know it.
Julian Chokkattu : I know it. Yes, of course. Yeah, my partner was saying that it was 70 degrees in New York, and I'm like, "How is that possible that New York is better weather right now than San Francisco?" Michael Calore : It's called climate change, because we buy too many phones.
Julian Chokkattu : I know, it's depressing.
Michael Calore : Well, thank you all for listening. If you have feedback, you can find all of us on Twitter, just check the show notes. Our producer is Boone Ashworth. We will be back next week. Until then, goodbye.
[Gadget Lab outro theme music plays] You Might Also Like … 📨 Make the most of chatbots with our AI Unlocked newsletter Taylor Swift, Star Wars, Stranger Things , and Deadpool have one man in common Generative AI is playing a surprising role in Israel-Hamas disinformation The new era of social media looks as bad for privacy as the last one Johnny Cash’s Taylor Swift cover predicts the boring future of AI music Your internet browser does not belong to you 🔌 Charge right into summer with the best travel adapters , power banks , and USB hubs Topics Gadget Lab Podcast podcasts Brenda Stolyar Julian Chokkattu Simon Hill Eric Ravenscraft Jaina Grey Adrienne So Jaina Grey Simon Hill WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
