Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft still struggling to keep up with demand for Xbox One Elite controller Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn It's the new Xbox One Elite Controller.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
One of the hottest items this holiday isn’t a game or a console — it’s a $150 joypad.
The Xbox One Elite controller is still very hard to find online and in stores, and it’s going to stay that way through the remainder of the year, according to Xbox boss Phil Spencer ( via Reddit ). The Microsoft executive took to Twitter to let some curious fans know that his team is still working to get more in stock, but he stopped short of making promises.
@NiTr0ian We are working to get more in stock, sorry they've been so hard to find.
— Phil Spencer (@XboxP3) November 27, 2015 One person explicitly asked about the chances of getting one before the Christmas holiday. Spencer explained that the hunger for the device has completely caught Microsoft completely by surprise. But even as the company works to address those market desires, it seems unlikely that it will have enough on store shelves to satisfy everyone.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! @ZeZZeX It's tough as I don't want to overpromise. Demand has just exceeded our planning. If you find one and you want it, pick it up, sorry — Phil Spencer (@XboxP3) November 27, 2015 We’ve already talked about our love of the Xbox One Elite controller ( read our review ), and it seems like many of you were convinced and rushed out to buy one. The Elite was barely out for a day before the first shipment sold out online and at retail stores. At that time, Microsoft said it was going to replenish stock for the holidays, but it still hasn’t caught up enough to keep any retailer stocked with Elites.
The popularity of this controller didn’t just catch Microsoft unprepared. Most people figured this was a device that would only appeal to pro gamers and people with a lot of extra money to spare. But the Elite has proven that the console-gaming space has a significant number of consumers who want to play with high-end gear. This is a market that PC hardware manufacturers, with their $200 keyboards and $100 mice, have long served.
If Microsoft and other companies can produce more devices on par with the Elite, it’s possible this gamepad is only the beginning of a new trend toward higher quality for a higher price.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
