Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Feature Make sure you have these 2015 hits before the Steam Exploration Sale ends Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Witcher III: Wild Hunt.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
If you’ve waited to play some of the year’s best games, Steam has rewarded your patience.
Right now, many of 2015’s greatest releases are on sale on Valve’s digital store. However, the sale ends tomorrow morning (December 1) at 10 a.m. Pacific. So, two of our writers, Jeff Grubb and Mike Minotti, have each picked three 2015 games that you should consider grabbing while they’re nice and cheap.
Jeff’s picks Dying Light Original price: $60 Sale price: $20 (66.66 percent off) Above: Dying Light was a surprise breakout hit for WB.
Techland’s first-person zombie-survival game Dying Light was one of the first big surprises of the year.
 It came out in January, but it’s one of those releases I’ve gone back to repeatedly in recent months because its gameplay is so immediately entertaining. People knocked it for liberally borrowing elements from Ubisoft and other games, but those aren’t real complaints. It takes the best parts of those ideas, like a map overflowing with objectives, and wraps them up in a solid, tense survival game. Go play it.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Game of Thrones: A Telltale Game Series Original price: $30 Sale price: $15 (50 percent off) Above: Hey, look, it’s the robot from Destiny! I didn’t think I would care about any Telltale games after loving The Walking Dead. The formula was interesting, but I didn’t think it could sustain itself over multiple games. I was wrong, and for one good reason: the writing. Telltale has a monopoly on a new industry of what are essentially interactive comic books, and Game of Thrones is one of the best examples of how it is using that technology. It tells a side story in the same universe as the HBO show, but it is arguably better and more engaging than the product it is inspired by. If you’re into the Game of Thrones series, you should probably hop on this deal as a way of holding you over until the new season comes out.
Rocket League Original price: $20 Sale price: $14 (30 percent off) Above: Rocket League is this summer’s surprise gaming hit.
Rocket League is one of the reasons I believe 2015 is one of the best years ever for games. After getting this game for free as part of my PlayStation Plus subscription, I bought it on PC so I could play it on my laptop on the go. It’s a brilliant take on soccer or hockey played with cars, and while that might sound frivolous, it’s so well made, so finely tuned, and so exhilarating that it could beat out Fallout 4, The Witcher III, or Metal Gear Solid V as my game of the year.
Mike’s picks Ori and the Blind Forest Original price: $20 Sale price: $12 (40 percent off) Above: Ori is gorgeous.
If you like Metroid or Castlevania: Symphony of the Night, you need to check out this beauty. Like those games, Ori is a nonlinear 2D platformer that focuses on exploration. It also looks absolutely gorgeous. Playing Ori really is like controlling an animated masterpiece by classic Disney or Miyazaki. It’s one of my favorite games of the year , and it’s pretty much a no-brainer at $12.
Grandia II Anniversary Edition Original price: $20 Sale price: $10 (50 percent off) Above: Awww, JRPG characters used to look so cute.
Grandia II was one of the first great role-playing games to come out for the Dreamcast, and this PC version celebrates the 15th anniversary of the classic with a faithful port. Grandia II has a lot of tropes you’d expect from a Japanese role-playing game but it stands out thanks to a fun battle system and some great music, including the most rocking battle theme of all time.
 It also features great voice acting, something of a rarity for the genre back then, thanks to a great cast that includes voice acting vets like Cam Clarke and, believe it or not, Jodi Benson (the voice of Ariel from The Little Mermaid ).
The Witcher III: Wild Hunt Original price: $60 Sale price: $30 (50 percent off) Above: This griffin is not easy to take down.
The Witcher III is a massive, open-world role-playing that will take hundreds of hours to experience. It’s one of year’s best games , and you can already buy it for $30. If you enjoyed anything like Skyrim, Fallout, or Dragon Age, you should try this. And don’t worry if you haven’t played the previous Witcher games. I never did, but I still loved Wild Hunt and never felt like I was missing out by skipping its predecessors.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
