Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Cards Against Humanity made $70,000 on Black Friday by selling nothing Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
It’s amazing what people will spend on during Black Friday.
Fans of the popular party card game Cards Against Humanity willingly paid $5 (or $100 in one case) for nothing last Friday, raising a total of $71,145 which the company then divided among its employees. The Cards Against Humanity online store actually closed down for the day, leaving only the option to “give Cards Against Humanity $5.” Cards Against Humanity has a track record of mocking the day considered the start of the Christmas shopping period, when most other stores are enticing customers with bargains. In 2013, Cards Against Humanity actually raised the price of its base game by $5, and last year it sold 30,000 boxes of actual bull crap.
Cards Against Humanity is the No. 1 best-selling game at Amazon.com , and the company behind it says it’s donated over $4 million to charity since 2012. This time around, though, it’s been far more selfish with its Black Friday earnings.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! “There’s been a lot of speculation about how we would spend the money from Black Friday,” read a blog post on the Black Friday breakdown, “and we’re happy to announce that this time, we kept it all.” Employees then disclosed exactly what they spent their fans’ generous donations on, including a $480 bottle of malt whisky, a suit of armor and two-handed great sword, games consoles, a trip to Finland, and corrective eye surgery.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
