Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Meteor launches Galaxy Developer Edition with hourly pricing for app hosting Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn From left, Evan You, Ben Newman, and David Glasser of the Meteor Development Group team.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Meteor Development Group , the startup behind the popular Meteor JavaScript framework , announced today that it will be rolling out a new Developer Edition of its Galaxy service for building and hosting apps that use Meteor. It’s convenient because it’s priced by the hour, not on a monthly or annual basis.
“[W]e know the current price of Galaxy is out of reach for many members of our community,” Matt DeBergalis, cofounder and chief executive of Meteor Development Group, wrote in a blog post. “Our Team, Business, and Enterprise plans are really for production apps that already need scale, high availability, and high-touch support.
“That being said, we understand that many developers don’t need all of this. So today we’re taking a small but important step towards giving you the Galaxy you deserve, at prices that make sense for all apps.” The service will cost 3.5 cents per gigabyte per hour, or around $13 per container per month, DeBergalis wrote.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! This might well appeal to people who like Meteor a lot — the framework enables developers to use JavaScript for both server and client code for web and mobile apps — and want to just focus on designing applications with it, not deploying and monitoring those applications on cloud infrastructure such as Amazon Web Services. In that sense it’s a Meteor-focused platform as a service (PaaS).
San Francisco, California-based Meteor Development Group announced a $20 million funding round in May.
People interested in using the new Galaxy Developer Edition can now request an invitation for it.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
