Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Forget cultural barriers — Halloween invades Asain mobile games Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Boo.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The worldwide market of mobile gaming is presenting some interesting challenges.
The popularity of Halloween as we know it varies among Asian countries. However, mobile developers from those territories are smart enough to use the holiday to help promote their games for Western audiences.
Many mobile games from Asian developers have special events going on to help celebrate Halloween. Of course, these also encourage users to open these apps and potentially spend more money on them. They can also attract new players, which can help make your game a bigger hit in a mobile market that could be worth an estimated $30 billion this year, according to Newzoo.
We’ve listed some Halloween-celebrating games below.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! QuickBoy The running-platformer by South Korea’s Netmarble is dressing its characters in Halloween costumes. Pumpkin-wearing zombies also appear, and destroying them can help you build a special Halloween drone to help you run your way past all those obstacles. Zombie-survivors will also throw candy at the player, which you can use to unlock special Halloween boxes and the prizes inside.
Above: Be quick, boy! Seven Knights This is another game by Netmarble that’s celebrating the holiday. Seven Knights is a role-playing game, and you can dress up your characters in 11 costumes for Halloween, including Vampire and Corpse Bride. You can also earn pumpkins and candy while playing, which you can then trade for in-game weapons and items.
Above: They certainly know about the popularity of revealing Halloween outfits for women.
Blood Brothers 2 Instead of in-game event, Blood Brothers 2 by Japan’s DeNA is encouraging fans to submit pictures of themselves dressed as characters from the game to its Facebook page.
 Five entrants will randomly win the Legendary+ Adiv character in the game.
Above: He looks fun.
HellFire: The Summoning The world of DeNA’s HellFire is celebrating the Samhain, its own version of Halloween that “transcends reality and opens the doors between realms of good and evil.” Players can summon minions to battle all of the demons that come with holiday event.
Above: Because why not summon some HellFire? Puzzle & Dragons Japan’s GungHo’s popular puzzle game is running a Halloween Night event, which lets players fight special monsters like Master Candy Collector, Wicked Lady and Bewitching Demon Bird, Cockatrice.
Above: A time of the year for monsters.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
