Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages You can now preorder Samsung’s monitor with wireless charging for $250, ships November 13 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
In July, we broke the news that Samsung was claiming to have built the first monitor with an integrated wireless charging function for mobile devices. But a price tag and availability date were not made available — until now. If you’re in the U.S., you can preorder the 23.6-inch monitor from Newegg , which will start shipping the product on November 13, 2015.
The poorly named SE370 has two functions: displaying content and charging your smartphone. More specifically, the monitor works with all mobile devices that use the Qi wireless charging standard — place your device on the stand’s charging area, and automatic charging will begin when the green LED light on the base turns on. The monitor is also supposed to come in a 27-inch version, but that one is nowhere to be found on Newegg.
In fact, Newegg in the U.S. is only one of two options where this monitor is available. Samsung’s website states that “We are sorry, but this product is currently not available from any of our retail partners.” Meanwhile, if you want to get it in-store, you have to go to Courts … in Singapore.
I don’t know about you, but I have no interest in traveling 14,797.72 kilometers for a monitor.
Clearly, Samsung is still ramping up production very slowly. Thankfully, the price isn’t ridiculous: $250 isn’t cheap for a 23.6-inch monitor nowadays, but it’s certainly not absurd either.
As we noted in July, a monitor like this makes a lot of sense. Wireless charging is at the stage right now where it pretty much relies on charging stations: You need a dedicated area to get that juice. A monitor is perfect for this because it’s always plugged in and, let’s face it, it’s not going anywhere.
Here are the monitor’s specifications: Panel Type: PLS Resolution: 1920×1080 Response Time: 4ms Brightness: 250 cd/m2 for 23.6-inch and 300 cd/m2 for 27-inch Contrast Ratio: 1000:1 (typical) Viewing Angle (H/V): 178°/178° Color: White High Glossy Interface: 1 HDMI(1.4), 1 DP(1.2), 1 D-Sub OS Compatibility: Windows (including Windows 10), Mac Essential Features: Wireless Charging, Eco Saving Plus, Magic Bright, Magic Upscale, Game Mode, Eye Saver Mode, Flicker Free, FreeSync, Image Size We have asked Samsung for more information regarding availability going forward. We’ll update you as we learn more.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
