Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages LG Watch Urbane 2nd Edition is the first Android Wear smartwatch with LTE Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
We already took a look at LG’s revamped Watch Urbane with LTE earlier this year, in February and March (hands-on here ). The device enjoys the distinction of being the world’s first Android Wear smartwatch with cellular connectivity — meaning it doesn’t have to be tethered to a smartphone to get online. That’s a big deal for evolving the device category to a point where smartwatches can truly be useful in their own right. The watch is also compatible with iOS, so iPhone owners take note.
LG says the new Watch Urbane “delivers the highest resolution display of any smartwatch currently on the market today.” Its 1.38-inch full circle P-OLED display packs 348 ppi, and has been designed with a classic look in mind. LG hopes that a big battery and power-saving mode will see it last right through the day, though we haven’t had a chance to test that yet.
“Three buttons adorn the right side of the LG Watch Urbane 2nd Edition to provide quick access to shortcut settings such as contacts, LG Health, and apps list,” the company said in a statement. “Ambient mode can now be enabled or disabled with a simple press of the crown button. In addition to the 16 included watch faces, fitness-related features such as heart rate tracking, workout tips, and stress level monitoring are also offered.” Details on release date and pricing are still not available, but expect to see the smartwatch widely available across most markets when it does launch.
Here are the key specs: 1.2GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon 400 Android Wear (Cell-connected Version) 1.38-inch P-OLED display (480 x 480 / 348ppi) 44.5 x 14.2mm 4GB memory 570mAh battery Bluetooth 4.1 / Wi-Fi / LTE / 3G Accelerometer / Gyro / Compass / Barometer / PPG / GPS Space Black / Opal Blue / Luxe White / Signature Brown Dust and Water Resistance (IP67) https://youtu.be/FdRymDRtPJA VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
