Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google launches Android Studio 1.4 with Nexus 5X and 6P emulators, Firebase integration, theme editor Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The new Theme Editor in Android Studio version 1.4.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google today said that it has pushed version 1.4 of its Android Studio integrated development environment (IDE) into the stable release channel. This release comes with several new tools to accelerate the development of Android apps.
Android Studio 1.4 is coming out exactly two months after version 1.3 came out.
In version 1.4, there’s a new Vector Asset Studio for easily selecting existing Material Design icons or uploading custom icons into projects, and a new Theme Editor simplifies the process of tweaking colors for app user interfaces, as Android product manager Jamal Eason explained in a blog post on the release today.
Emulators for Huawei’s new Nexus 6P and LG’s new Nexus 5X are included in the release.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! This update also ships with a tight integration of the Google-owned Firebase backend as a service.
 Rather than make Firebase a dependency with Gradle, now in Android Studio developers only need to hit File, select Project Structure, and navigate to the new Cloud section, Eason wrote.
You can download Android Studio here.
 You can get the latest version by checking for updates using the drop-down menu or the pop-up box in the IDE.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
