Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google explains why the Nexus 5X and Nexus 6P don’t have Qi wireless charging Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The new Nexus 6P from Huawei. left, and the new Nexus 5X from LG.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google’s Nexus team hosted a Reddit AMA today to answer questions about its newly unveiled Nexus 5X and Nexus 6P , the first Android 6.0 Marshmallow devices. As is typical with these public forums, there was a lot of bantering and joking, though some interesting questions did get answered.
One of the biggest complaints about Nexus 5X and Nexus 6P is that they don’t support the Qi wireless charging standard , despite the fact that their predecessors did. Google apparently believes that the tradeoff of thickness was not worth it, and that USB Type-C solves a lot of the problems because it is fast and reversible: We added Qi wireless charging starting with N4 because plugging in USB micro B was such a hassle! (Which way is up!?) With this year’s Nexii, we support USB Type-C which has a reversible connector so there’s no more guessing. AND it charges incredibly swiftly: 1% to 100% in 97 mins on the 6P for example (the first ~45 mins of charging is especially fast). Meanwhile, wireless charging adds z (thickness). So, ease of plugging in + fast charging + optimizing for thinness made us double down on Type-C instead of wireless! Of course, wireless charging will always be more convenient than plugging in a cable. More important is of course battery life, but we’ll hold that judgment until we’ve tried the devices for a bit longer.
Other answers in the AMA were less interesting. The Android devices support USB 2.0 (not USB 3.1), feature software-accelerated encryption (as opposed to hardware), internal storage is eMMC 5.0 (not UFS 2.0), and they both have the same camera (12.3MP with 1.55um pixels). Also, the X stands for “the core of the Nexus brand” while the P is for premium.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Still, this answer responding to the question as to why the Nexus 5X starts at 16GB amused us: The idea here was to strike a balance between premium features/experiences and affordability.
EDIT: HL> It’s a conspiracy! MOVE TO THE CLOUD! We’ll update you if anything else catches our eyes.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
