Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages World of Tanks developer reenacts a 1941 battle for 360-degree video and virtual reality Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Wargaming hired 40 war reenactors to act as infantry.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Wargaming wants to put you into a battle.
The company released a special video today called “1941 Battle: 360-degree Reenactment” that enables viewers to get an immersive look at what a World War II tank fight looked like. Wargaming worked with Google to record and accurately portray the fight, and you can watch it all in a video on YouTube. If you do, you can use your arrow keys or your mouse to look around and see different angles of the battles. If you want even more immersion, you can boot up the video on the YouTube app for the Google Cardboard VR holster for your smartphone to make it feel like you’re truly standing in the middle of the mayhem.
Check it out for yourself: Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! To bring the battle to life, Wargaming took to a field with a platoon of war reenactors as well as the T-34 and Panzer III tanks. The publisher even had artillery guns and planes flying over head. Then Google set up its 360-degree recording equipment, which is similar to the Google Jump technology it introduced earlier this year for enabling consumers to produce their own 360-degree VR videos.
This is more evidence at just how much money Wargaming has to market its free-to-play PC shooter. World of Tanks is a highly lucrative game that has caught on with gamers around the world — and especially in emerging markets like Russia and Brazil. While it doesn’t generate the same level of revenues as something like League of Legends (what does?), it’s in that second tier of globally popular PC games. It made approximately $400 million in 2014, according to the SuperData research firm.
 That was enough to put it in the top-five PC releases in terms of cash made from in-app purchases.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
