Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Super Mario Maker already sells 1 million copies Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Nintendo is adding a Web portal to discover levels in Super Mario Maker.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
If you’re Nintendo, you can always count on Mario.
The Japanese game company revealed today that Super Mario Maker has already sold 1 million copies worldwide. The level-designing title came out for the Wii U on September 11, so Super Mario Maker accomplished the feat in less than a month. That’s impressive, especially when you consider the Wii U’s smaller player base when compared to competitor’s PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. Of course, it helps that Super Mario Maker is a fantastic game.
This is the Wii U’s second big hit this year, with the online shooter Splatoon also passing 1 million sales.
 Both games represent turns from Nintendo norm in that they depend on online features. Splatoon focuses on online multiplayer, and Super Mario Maker allows players to upload and download levels to and from servers. With the success of these projects, Nintendo’s mysterious next system, the NX, might finally have beefier online support.
It’s a good thing Super Mario Maker is a hit, because the rest of the Wii U’s holiday lineup is sparse. Nintendo recently delayed Star Fox Zero from this November to the first quarter of 2016.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
