Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages This accessory makes the Apple Watch an old-timey pocket watch Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
You want to go all old-school with your Apple Watch? The accessories brand Bucardo can help you out.
Bucardo’s Pendulum Collection, as it’s called, aims to resurrect vintage classics like pocket watches and pendulums, and transform them into wearable tech pieces.
Above: You could look as radical as this guy.
The pocket watches house the Watch in an engraved pinstripe cover or a hammered metal cover. They include a detachable chain and are plated in 18K gold or sterling silver.
Bucardo started a Kickstarter campaign to fund what it calls the world’s first “off the wrist” accessory for the Apple Watch. Actually, with four days still to go, the Kickstarter campaign is fully funded.
The accessories will retail for $150 online.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
