Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Samsung officially announces the Gear S2 smartwatch Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Samsung has now officially announced its round Samsung Gear S2 smartwatch.
The watch, which until now had been known as the Samsung Gear A , runs on Samsung’s own Tizen operating system. The Gear S2 uses a unique rotating bezel, which can be used for some of the same functions managed by the digital crown on the Apple Watch, i.e. zooming in and out of content and controlling specific movements in apps and games. The S2 design also features Home and Back buttons.
The watch comes in two options — the Gear S2 and the Gear S2 classic. The Gear S2 classic is made for users who prefer a more traditional watch design — it has a black finish and a leather band. The Gear S2 has a more minimal and modern design.
Samsung wisely made a version of the watch with a 3G radio inside so that users can stay connected even when Wi-Fi isn’t available. Gear S2 with 3G uses an e-SIM with voice capability.
Samsung has yet to release pricing and availability information, but T-Mobile for one has said that it will sell the watch — and the 3G service to go with it — this fall.
(See the full specs of both watches below) The watch is 11.4-millimeters thick with a 1.2-inch circular screen with 360 x 360 resolution (302 ppi). The applications on the Gear S2 can be viewed with amazing clarity so that users don’t miss notification pop-ups.
Samsung says users can glance at notifications and check calendars, emails, and news on the watch. Text messaging from the device is possible, too.
Above: The Gear S2 classic.
The Gear S2 comes with NFC technology for mobile payments.
Samsung says the watch’s battery can go 2-3 days on one charge. A wireless charging dock ships with the S2.
A variety of apps optimized for the Gear S2’s circular user interface will be available at launch, Samsung says. “Through open collaboration with developers and partners, Samsung is continuing to enrich its wearable ecosystem and provide users with a more optimized and unique smart wearable experience,” the company said in a statement.
The Samsung Gear S2 will be available in a dark gray case with a dark gray band, and silver case with a white band. The Samsung Gear S2 classic will be available in a black case with a leather band.
Samsung and other smartwatch makers have been under pressure to come up with some kind of answer to the Apple Watch.
Specs: Display: 1.2”, Circular Super AMOLED, 360×360, 302ppi Processor: Dual core 1.0 GHz OS: Tizen Audio: Codec: MP3/AAC/AAC+/eAAC+; Format: MP3, M4A, AAC, OGG Memory: 4GB Internal Memory / RAM: 512MB Communications: Contacts, Notifications, Messages, Email, Preset Text, Voice Input, Emoticons, Keypads Health/Fitness: S Health, Nike+ Running Information: Schedule, News, Maps, Navigation, Weather Other features: Music Player, Gallery, Voice, Voice Memo, Find My Device, Power Saving Mode, Safety assistance, Privacy lock VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
