Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages World of Warcraft finally adding flying to Draenor tomorrow Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Snow, rocks, lava, and more snow: Welcome to Frostfire Ridge.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
World of Warcraft believes you can fly, but it won’t be easy.
Patch 6.2.2 adds flying in Draenor when it launches tomorrow. Flight had become a staple of World of Warcraft since it appeared in the first expansion, 2007’s The Burning Crusade. However, Blizzard originally resisted letting players soar through Draenor, the new land added in last November’s Warlords of Draenor expansion. It hoped that doing so would encourage players to explore on foot, since it worried that many were flying over the MMO’s secrets and detailed worlds.
However, players complained about not having the convenience of flying, especially once they had already explored every inch of Draenor. Blizzard finally relented. However, getting the right to fly in Draenor won’t be easy. Players must complete a series of quests that send them to every corner of the continent.
Blizzard might rethink its stance on flight in its next expansion, 2016’s Legion, especially with World of Warcraft’s subscription numbers hitting their lowest points in years.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
