Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Funding Daily: Today’s tech funding news, in one place Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Here’s a list of today’s tech funding stories, updated as the day unfolds. Tip us here if you have a deal to share.
European payments processor iZettle raises $67M and launches a cash advance service for SMBs European mobile payments processor iZettle has announced a fresh €60 million ($67 million) raise. The round was led by Intel Capital and Zouk Capital, both existing investors, and takes the company’s funding to almost €150 million ($168 million).
While Jack Dorsey’s Square has been setting out to disrupt the epayments market for small to medium-sized businesses in North America and Japan, iZettle has been doing the same in its native Sweden, as well as Finland, Denmark, Norway, U.K., France, Germany, Netherlands, Spain, Brazil, and Mexico.
Part of the company’s new $67 million cash influx will be used to help support the rollout of iZettle Advance, as well as fueling the company’s overall business.
Read more Search startup Qbox raises $2.4M to develop a front end for non-technical users Qbox , a startup that operates a cloud-based version of the Elasticsearch open-source search database for use in other companies’ applications, is announcing today that it has raised $2.4 million.
Qbox, formerly known as StackSearch, started in 2012 and has offices in San Francisco and Fayetteville, Arkansas. The startup participated in the Alchemist Accelerator program earlier this year. The startup employs 12 people, and the headcount should double in a year, Brandon wrote.
​Vulcan Ventures led the round in Qbox. Flint Capital, FundersClub, Salesforce chief technology officer Steve Tamm, and former DocuSign CEO Steve King also participated.
Read more This list will be updated with breaking funding news all day. Check back for more.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
