Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VMware partners with ClusterHQ to build a vSphere storage driver for Flocker Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn ClusterHQ T-shirts.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Startup ClusterHQ today announced that it has teamed up with VMware to develop a storage driver that allows ClusterHQ’s Flocker open-source software to integrate with VMware’s vSphere server virtualization software.
The result is that companies can now provision storage for specific containers, not just virtual machines, with VMware storage software like Virtual SAN and vSphere Virtual Volumes.
Developers have flocked to container technologies like Docker as lightweight alternatives to longstanding virtual machine technology. ClusterHQ is one of many container startups, but it’s focusing on solving the specific problem of running stateful services that are constantly changing (such as databases) inside of containers.
ClusterHQ has previously partnered with other major storage vendors, including EMC and NetApp. But the partnership with VMware is especially meaningful, given that ClusterHQ chief executive Mark Davis sold his storage software company Virsto to VMware in 2013.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Plus, VMware is particularly interested in containers , as they represent competition for its flagship vSphere software, or at the very least a trendy technology to run on top of vSphere. So it’s an interesting announcement to kick off the 2015 VMworld conference in San Francisco, which begins today.
ClusterHQ started in 2008 and announced a 12 million funding round earlier this year. Flocker works with databases like MongoDB, MySQL, PostgreSQL, RabbitMQ, Redis, and Riak.
Find all of our coverage of VMworld 2015 here.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
