Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Wiselike opens in beta, raises $1.25M for its ‘Ask Me Anything’-like platform Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Wiselike is joining the “Ask Me Anything” space with the beta launch of its platform today. To help mark this occasion, the company has also revealed it closed a $1.25 million seed round of funding. Led by GGV Capital, the investment will further the company’s mission of giving anyone a page to answer questions from their fans.
The marketplace for AMA platforms is rapidly growing. Besides Reddit, other services that dabbled in this space include Branch, Formspring , Quora (to an extent), and also most recently Product Hunt.
 Now it’s Wiselike’s turn. But will it be able to stand out from all the others that have either tried and failed or are more well known? Anyone can create their own AMA page on Wiselike, but instead of the one-to-many approach its competitors use, the company said it’s going for a one-on-one approach, which means that it’s more like Formspring or Branch than Reddit. Only those questions that have an answer will appear on the page. Those questions deemed inappropriate are rejected “in a manner of seconds.” The platform allows anyone to contribute to a discussion after the question has been answered and publicly displayed — responses can be anonymous or done through a registered account.
“We can all benefit from exchanging knowledge and experience with one another,” said Wiselike’s chief executive Kyu Lee in the company’s press release. “With Wiselike, we’re creating a platform that will enable people to share their experiences one-on-one and within an intellectually active community.” The platform has a strong resemblance to Formspring and Branch. So the question is (no pun intended) whether the world is ready for yet another AMA-like platform. But it seems that the company has found interested users to not only sign up but also participate.
More than 23,000 questions have been asked on Wiselike, and in September, the company has lined up a pretty interesting group of people who will answer questions, including Grammy award-winning composer Eric Whitacre; the voice of Siri, Susan Bennett; former Google executive chef Charlie Ayers; Nobel laureate in physics Adam Riess; marketing guru Guy Kawasaki; the designer behind the Google logo, Ruth Kedar; the creator of the Comic Sans font, Vincent Connare; and Wayne Fromm, inventor of the selfie stick.
To help move the company along, Wiselike has tapped several venture capitalists to provide capital. Its first round not only included funds from GGV Capital, but also had participation from 500 Startups, GREE, and others.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
