Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages HTC job cuts: Make that 2,300 + 600 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Reuters / Brendan McDermid We already know from earlier this month that HTC is planning to lay off 15 percent of its workforce (about 2,300 employees) in its cost-cutting efforts, but over the past 24 hours there’s been more — albeit smaller — bad news on the job front.
The struggling Taiwanese smartphone maker (it must be getting tired of being referred to as such) announced plans to cut an additional 600 jobs across two of its factories on its home turf, according to local media reports Monday.
The numerous reports cite the source of the news as the local governments of the two Taiwanese municipalities.
HTC has previously said it aims to reduce operating expenditure by 35 percent as part of a global program of business realignment. At the same time, it’s continuing to diversify its product line with an ongoing push into new technologies like virtual reality.
Some 200 jobs will be cut from its Taipei-based plant, with 400 to be axed at its plant in Taoyuan, a city located about 50 km west of Taipei. The two factories employ about 2,900 and 9,000 workers, respectively.
While HTC recently denied rumours that it is planning to sell its factory in Shanghai, Chinese media reports Monday claimed that up to 600 workers had left the site due to suspended production, according to Focus Taiwan.
 This suggests we may not have heard the final word on the situation in Shanghai.
The company also denied reports Monday that it is planning to set up a factory in Indonesia, which (if true) would perhaps be to better tap opportunities in the Southeast Asia region.
We’ve reached out to HTC for comment, and we’ll update you if we hear back.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
