Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored New Hitman gets 23% discount and Beta Access for PC Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
It was just two weeks ago with Square ENIX announced the December 8, 2015 release date for the new Hitman.
 The game popped up on steam not long after for the usual $59.99 you’d expect to pay for AAA title, but it got quite a bit cheaper this week.
Just yesterday the game showed up at the UK digital retailer Green Man Gaming where a 23% off coupon code now works discounting the game $13.79. That’s the best price online right now from a digitally authorized retailer.
Hitman (Steam Key) — $46.20 (list $60) Use Code: 23PERC-ENTOFF-JULY15 Note: the deal won’t be around for very long. In fact, the coupon code is scheduled to end tomorrow, July 31 at 8 AM Pacific time. After that hopefully GMG will have another coupon code in the works, and if so will post it here.
Well, four months seems like a long time out to preorder a videogame… but thankfully there’s also another incentive. Getting the game now gives you an exclusive invitation to the beta and while we don’t know the exact date of that yet we know it will be one week after the PS four beta.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
