Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Hitbox allows streamers with few viewers to still make ad money — unlike Twitch Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Hitbox on 4K TV.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Someone wants to grab the game-streaming crown from Twitch.
Hitbox announced today that it is removing any minimum viewers requirement for ad revenue share and subscriptions. This means that anyone can receive some ad money from their Hitbox streaming channel. Twitch, the most popular game-streaming site, restricts ad revenue share to broadcasters with more than 500 viewers.
Hitbox’s new policy starts today.
“There is so much varied and exciting content streaming live on Hitbox every day,” said Martin Klimscha, the chief executive officer and cofounder of Hitbox in a press release sent to GamesBeat. “For those broadcasters who are growing a smaller audience or choose unique, lesser known titles over the esports giants, we wanted our platform to be just as rewarding.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Hitbox is available via web browsers at Hitbox.tv.
 It’s also available as an app for iOS and Android. While Twitch has only recently planned on switching from Flash to HTML5, Hitbox has been running on HTML5. Hitbox also boasts a shorter stream delay over Twitch. However, it can’t compare to Twitch’s large community and viewership. Hitbox has had over 10 million unique users , but 100 million people watch Twitch every month.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
