Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Curse wants to help developers improve in-game voice chat Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Curse Voice.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
If you’re playing competitive games, communication is key. However, a lot of big titles oddly skip out on robust, in-game voice options.
For years, third-party services like Ventrilo have filled the voice chat gap in PC gaming. However, Curse is arguing that developers need to work harder on their in-game options.
“For developers, online gaming is a constant struggle in innovation,” Curse noted in a press release sent to GamesBeat. “Finding new ways to make a game successful and build a thriving community around any title is hard work. It’s no surprise that developers tend to leave some of the nuances of a good multiplayer experience to their community. Voice chat is no exception, and for the many competitive multiplayer and co-op titles released on a yearly basis, few bother to include any kind of integrated voice communication features at all.” Curse is best known for its PC clients that easily download and install add-ons for games like World of Warcraft and Minecraft. However, it has also created Curse Voice, its own voice chat program. Unlike Ventrilo, Curse Voice has in-game overlays with select titles, so players don’t need to alt-tab out of their game to change voice options. It has hit 1.3 Million active accounts since launching in May, 2014.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Curse Voice is compatible with PC games like League of Legends, Smite, and Robocraft. Competitive gaming is becoming a huge business. The market is currently worth $621 million, according to intelligence firm SuperData Research.
 Curse noted in a press release sent to GamesBeat that Robocraft saw a 258 percent increase in active players after it integrated Curse Voice, proving that improved voice options can help grow a game’s community.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
