Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google releases Android Studio 1.3 with a new memory profiler, editing and debugging support for C++ Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Android Studio 1.3.
Google today announced the release of Android Studio 1.3, a major update to the integrated development environment (IDE) that first hit 1.0 in December.
The new version includes a new way to check memory snapshots for application code and a new visualization tool to help developers get a big-picture view of memory allocation, Android product manager Jamal Eason wrote in a blog post on the news.
There’s also an early access preview for a C++ editor and debugger, as well as code annotation support for dealing with app permissions in Android M, Eason wrote. Plus, the new version of Android Studio can automatically check for updates to the Android software development kit (SDK).
Android Studio is what Google thinks of as the official IDE for building Android apps, so it’s pretty important in the Google software development ecosystem. Just last month, Google said it would stop supporting its Android Developer Tools plugin for the widely used Eclipse IDE.
You can download Android Studio by going here if you don’t already have it. You can get the latest version by checking for updates using the drop down menu or the pop-up box in the IDE.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
