Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Facebook tweaks its News Feed for the ‘small group of people’ who actively hide posts Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
If you’re a fan of the “hide” feature on Facebook, then you’ll want to pay attention — it’s getting a small tweak today that could affect the stories you see on the social network.
For the “small group of people” on Facebook that hide a large number of stories in their News Feed for whatever reason, the social network’s algorithm will no longer consider hiding to be a strong negative signal. What this means is that if you fall into this category, you’re going to see more stories from the Pages and friends you’re connected to than in the past. Ideally this should showcase more content that you’re interested in.
When Facebook rolled out “hide” to its users, it was a way for people to let the social network know what types of posts and stories they’re not interested in. But now, for those that opt to click “hide” on every post, Facebook will no longer view that action as strongly as it did before. So if you’re a “super hider” and hide a VentureBeat post (please don’t), then Facebook could show you more stories from VentureBeat.
Of course any change that relates to News Feed automatically includes a discussion about Pages. If anything, Page admins could probably see an increase in the number of their stories hidden within their Page insights. However, Facebook says it doesn’t expect Pages to see “significant changes in distribution as a result of this update.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
