Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Pinterest rolls out buyable pins on iPhone and iPad in the U.S., with Android and desktop support coming later Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A buyable pin on Pinterest on iOS.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Pinterest today announced that its new buyable pins — featuring blue price tags and “Buy it” buttons — are now live for people using the app on iPhone and iPad in the U.S.
Pinterest first introduced the feature at the beginning of this month , saying that they would be coming to the iPhone and the iPad within the next few weeks. Now Pinterest has officially begun the rollout. (You’ll know you have access to them when Pinterest sends you an email notification about it.) This is a major rollout not only for users, who can more easily order what they like when they come across it on the Pinterest app, but also for Pinterest the growing company.
 Later this summer, Pinterest will start collecting revenue by allowing brands to make promote buyable pins on a cost-per-action basis, a spokesperson told VentureBeat in an email.
In addition to today’s iOS rollout, wider support for buyable pins is naturally on the way.
“For all you Android and desktop Pinners, we’re working hard to get you buyable Pins in future releases,” Pinterest head of commerce Michael Yamartino wrote in a blog post on the news today.
Several retailers are on board for the new program, including Macy’s, Neiman Marcus, and Nordstrom. If you’d like, you can see all the buyable pins available from a specific store. Or you can check out the Shop Our Picks category to see handpicked buyable pins. The Shop category shows the newest buyable pins.
“In the next few weeks, 30 million Pins all over Pinterest will become buyable,” Yamartino wrote.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
