Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Windows 10’s latest preview adds even more Xbox gaming features Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Xbox app on Windows 10.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
We now have a better idea than ever about how gaming will work on Windows 10.
Microsoft’s latest preview build for its upcoming operating-system upgrade has added a number of new Xbox features for PC gamers. Windows Insiders, who can test Windows 10 for free, will get a look at the revamped My Games section of the Xbox app as well as improved sharing options and account controls. These are basic features, but they further flesh out what we can expect from Windows 10. These also add to a list of Windows 10 Xbox app capabilities that include game streaming from an Xbox One.
While this preview is interesting because of Windows 10’s imminent release, it may also provide us with some idea of what the next Xbox One interface update will look like. We got a look at the first overhaul to the UI during the Electronic Entertainment Expo trade show earlier this month, and it definitely has a lot of the same DNA as what Microsoft is doing with gaming on Windows 10.
Here is a breakdown of what’s new in Xbox app: Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! My Games: This section of the app lists anything you’ve installed from the Windows Store, but you can also add other games that you have on your PC.
Game hubs: Microsoft has added the option to launch a game from its dedicated hub page in the Xbox app. Hubs will also give you a list of people to watch who are actively streaming the game.
Play from console: The Xbox app hub pages will also enable you to launch an Xbox One game that you have on your console for streaming on your PC.
Share with your friends: The Windows 10 Xbox app also now has Xbox One-like sharing capabilities. You can send achievements or Game DVR video clips to your activity feed so your friends can see what you’ve done.
Xbox avatars: The Avatars character-creation app is now known as Xbox avatars.
Xbox account: You can now use Windows 10 to sign into any Xbox account or to create an account if you do not already have one.
If you’re not seeing all of the above features, you’ll want to make sure you’re on Build 10158 of the Windows 10 preview. Additionally, once that is installed, you’ll want to make sure the Xbox app updates to its latest version, which is 6.6.27004.00000.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
