Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Of course. There is now a Hacker News for deep learning Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The front page of Deep Learning News.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Machine learning startup Startup.ML today unveiled a new website called Deep Learning News. It’s a place to go to find information online about deep learning , which is an increasingly trendy type of artificial intelligence.
The new site is in the style of Hacker News , a popular online water cooler for programmers from prominent Silicon Valley accelerator Y Combinator. It’s also similar to DataTau , a sort of Hacker News for data science that was formed in 2013.
“We made a hackernews clone dedicated to deep learning because DataTau and Reddit are too general (and often cluttered) when it comes to ‘data science’ topics,” Arshak Navruzyan, one person involved with Startup.ML, told VentureBeat in an email. “DL is a pretty specialized branch of machine learning and deserves a proper community.” Major tech companies like Facebook , Google , and Microsoft , as well as smaller outfits like Pinterest and Snapchat , have lately been allocating more and more of resources to deep learning. The approach involves training artificial neural networks on large sets of data — like pictures — and then throwing a new piece of data at them in order to get an inference about it in response. Startups like Clarifai, MetaMind, Nervana, and Skymind, among others, are striving to make deep learning available to a wide swath of companies. And now, for those who want a forum to discuss developments in the field, there’s Deep Learning News.
On the front page of the site today, there are links to a radio interview with deep learning luminary Geoff Hinton, a blog post from postdoctoral student Kyunghyun Cho about machine translation using deep learning, and a recent academic paper on visualization tools for artificial neural nets.
The entity behind the new site, San Francisco-based Startup.ML, provides fellowships for aspiring data scientists to build machine-learning systems for companies to put into production.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
