Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google updates Gmail with … wait for it … emojis Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn While Google engineers bend over backwards to repair the horrific mess that is email , the company caught us by surprise today with its latest Gmail update : Google is rolling out new emojis and themes.
The new themes are pretty easy to ignore — they’re just a selection of attractive photo backgrounds — but the new emojis are, at the very least, something new to play with while we ponder how “revolutionary” Apple Music truly is.
If you don’t yet see the new emojis in Gmail, please note: Google says “all of today’s web updates are rolling out over the next few days.” Gmail’s featured a gargantuan selection of dated-looking emojis since 2013; we’re not sure what’ll happen to them as this update rolls out.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
