Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release Eaze Adds On-Demand Physician Evaluations, Expands to 60 Cities Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn SAN FRANCISCO & SANTA MONICA, Calif.–(BUSINESS WIRE)–June 30, 2015– At 8:00 AM Tuesday, San Francisco-based Eaze expands to three new markets, including Los Angeles, Orange and San Diego Counties. Additionally, the company announces EazeMD, the first on-demand technology enabling patients to get a medical marijuana evaluation easily, quickly and professionally from any device. Starting June 30, patients in over 60 cities across four of America’s largest cannabis markets can utilize the breakthrough on-demand medical evaluation service along with Eaze’s existing on-demand delivery service to get cannabis products delivered in about 15 minutes.
Patients using EazeMD, which is seamlessly integrated with Eaze’s delivery technology, can connect in real-time with physicians over live video from 8AM to 12 midnight seven days a week for just $25. Patients can complete their medical evaluation in minutes, depending on the length of their discussion with the physician. If approved, the patient can immediately use Eaze to request and receive cannabis products.
The new service coincides with the company’s move into Southern California, where the cannabis market is about 10 times larger than that of Northern California. Its expansion quadruples the cannabis startup’s footprint in a state that makes up 49% of the $3.5 billion legal US cannabis industry, which is growing 32% annually toward $100 billion. Within the year, Eaze plans to expand beyond California, already a $1.3 billion market, to one of the other 22 states where marijuana is legal. The company can activate a new market in as little as six weeks.
“Since inception, Eaze has been focused on providing the easiest, quickest, and most professional way for patients to access medical marijuana. On-demand delivery was just the beginning,” said Keith McCarty, Eaze founder and CEO. “EazeMD represents a monumental step forward in our mission to provide patients access to high-quality products and care, quickly and professionally.” McCarty notes that, as attitudes and laws regulating cannabis are opening up, medical marijuana still represents 82% of total legal cannabis consumption in America and California is 49% of the market. To put things into perspective, Los Angeles County itself is currently a bigger market for cannabis than all of Colorado, he adds. To meet expected demand in cities that are legalizing cannabis, Eaze works to help premier dispensaries automate three aspects of operations, which have historically been challenging without on-demand technology: delivery logistics, real-time inventory, and business intelligence insights.
Patients interested in using Eaze should visit Eazeup.com and type in their zip code to see if the service is currently available in their city. Patients use Eaze for free to receive medical marijuana on demand from premier compliant dispensaries. EazeMD can be used effectively by any California resident. Developed in partnership with a third-party medical group of California board-certified physicians, the virtual evaluations meet the same standard of care for what commonly happens in the clinical setting. Patients pay $25 directly to physicians for their evaluations, which occur in a secure HIPAA-compliant environment to maintain patient-doctor privacy.
ABOUT EAZE Eaze is making the way people access medical marijuana easy, quick, and professional. Patients use Eaze to safely and discreetly order and receive deliveries from Proposition-215 compliant dispensaries in as little as 15 minutes from any connected device. Premier dispensaries use the company’s data-driven automation platform to manage their cannabis business in real-time. Founded in 2013 by Keith McCarty, San Francisco-based Eaze was the first company to allow patients to get medical marijuana on demand. The company is setting new standards for technological innovation, customer experience, legal compliance, transaction transparency, and “dispensary success management TM “. Learn more at www.eazeup.com.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
