Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Rand Paul: ‘I will force the Patriot Act to expire’ Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Rand Paul (R-Kentucky) has made government surveillance reform a rallying cry for his presidential bid, and he now says that he intends to force the Patriot Act to expire by blocking debate on the subject Sunday night in the Senate.
The Patriot Act, which has been used to authorize such things as the bulk collection of phone records , is set to expire at midnight Sunday. The Senate adjourned a week ago after fierce debate on the subject without passing any legislation.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Kentucky) pushed hard for passage of his own bill to reauthorize the surveillance powers in the Patriot Act.
Most now believe that McConnell’s only option is to try for passage of the USA Freedom Act, a bill that would limit surveillance powers, and that the House of Representatives passed by a wide margin earlier this month.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Paul says he will use his powers in the Senate to block debate on that bill Sunday night. And technically, under Senate rules, Paul can indeed force the blockage of the Freedom Act.
If he’s successful, the federal government will have no official surveillance rules codified in law Monday morning.
Source: Politico VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
