Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Woman accidentally throws out Apple I computer worth $200,000 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
After her husband passed away, a woman cleaned out her garage and threw out two boxes of his old electronics. One of the items she dropped off at recycling center Clean Bay Area in Silicon Valley turned out to be an Apple Computer 1 , known retroactively as the Apple I or Apple-1.
This was in early April. She didn’t want a tax receipt and didn’t want to leave her contact information, Clean Bay Area vice president Victor Gichun told NBC.
Weeks after the boxes were dropped off, the recycling firm finally went through them and made the discovery. “We really couldn’t believe our eyes. We thought it was fake,” Gichun said.
Yet the computer was indeed real and the recycling firm sold the Apple I for $200,000 to a private collector. If you think that’s steep, keep in mind that an Apple I computer was sold for $365,000 this past December.
These first-generation desktop computers are worth so much because only about 200 were assembled by Steve Jobs, Steve Wozniak, and Ron Wayne in 1976. They were originally sold for $600 each.
That said, this story could still have a happy ending: The company’s policy is to give 50 percent of all sales back to the original owner. Gichun doesn’t know her name but he remembers what she looks like. “To prove who she is,” Gichun said, “I just need to look at her.” As a result, all the woman has to do is show up at Clean Bay Area again and she’ll be handed a six-figure check.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
