Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft is testing a customer rewards program called Earn in select U.S. stores Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A promotional photo of Microsoft's Boston retail store Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Microsoft this week started running a pilot program for customer rewards called Microsoft Earn.
 The program, currently in beta, is limited to Microsoft stores in three U.S. states: Arizona, Massachusetts, and Washington.
Earn was first spotted by Twitter user h0x0d , the same guy who recently discovered new Microsoft apps OneClip and Flow.
 We reached out to Microsoft to learn more.
“Microsoft Earn is a customer rewards beta program that we are piloting in our Arizona, Massachusetts, and Washington stores,” a Microsoft spokesperson told VentureBeat. “As part of our commitment to delivering outstanding choice, value, and service, Microsoft Earn helps Visa and MasterCard customers turn Earn Credits received for purchases at their favorite retailers and restaurants into technology rewards at Microsoft stores. Registering for the program is as easy as visiting www.earnbymicrosoft.com.” The website explains how Microsoft Earn works. First, you have to enroll by providing your contact information and debit and credit card(s). You’ll then receive 5 percent to 10 percent in Earn Credits when you use your cards at select national retailers (Starbucks, Whole Foods, 7-Eleven, Petsmart, Papa John’s, and 1-800-Flowers.com) and “hundreds” of participating local restaurants.
After that, you can use your Earn Credits towards the purchase of products at Microsoft stores. These include software, laptops, tablets, phones, Xbox consoles and games, headphones, speakers, and so on.
Microsoft’s pitch to the consumer is simple: You can earn points towards tech purchases without making tech purchases. Microsoft’s pitch to participating retailers is also solid: Join us and customers will have another reason to choose you over a competitor. Microsoft itself is clearly hoping consumers choose to shop more at its stores.
It’s a smart plan, but it also makes sense to pilot it first. After all, it’s difficult to say how interested consumers will be in a rewards system just for tech products.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
