Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Nvidia’s multi-resolution shading technology helps both VR developers and players Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Oculus in the Enterprise -- the U.S.S. Enterprise, that is.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The promise of virtual-reality gaming is almost here. But because the technology is so new, developers haven’t figured out the best way to make games for it yet.
Graphics chips manufacturer Nvidia believes it has something that’ll help. I met with the company in Los Angeles ahead of its appearance at this week’s Computex trade show in Taipei, Taiwan. Using an Oculus Rift headset, Nvidia engineer Tom Petersen walked me through the benefits of a new piece of VR tech called multi-resolution shading.
The demo was running in real time and took place in a pretty hallway inside of a castle. Petersen flicked multi-res on and off while I was wearing the headset. When I looked around, I couldn’t tell the difference — and that’s the point.
Multi-resolution shading is a more efficient way of making VR games without sacrificing performance or image quality. Specifically, it tweaks the way images from your PC become the images you see in the headset. They start off looking straight (as it does when you’re playing on a regular monitor or TV), but when they reach the headset, the internal screen displays them as warped images (one for each eye) to simulate depth in the virtual world. The headset’s pair of lens act like an “anti-warp,” distorting the image again so that by the time you see it, it looks straight.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Without multi-res shading, developers lose precious resources during the conversion. The problem, Petersen said, is that the warped image isn’t natively rendered on the PC’s graphics processor unit. Instead, the GPU renders the image normally (straight lines and all), and then it goes through an additional processing pass before it becomes warped and distorted. But not all of the image’s pixels survive this transition. By the time you see the image, you’re only seeing about half of the pixels. Developers waste time and energy generating a bunch of pixels no one will ever see.
Multi-res shading prevents that loss from happening in the first place. It divides the image into a grid with nine “viewports,” with only the center viewport rendered at full resolution. Since the pixels on the outside viewports will shrink and merge during the warping process, multi-res renders them at smaller resolutions. By rendering fewer pixels, developers can improve the performance of their VR games.
“Either they’re gonna add more stuff to their games to make them look even better, or they’re going to allow the games to run on more hardware platforms,” Petersen said.
Both scenarios would be good news for players. The Facebook-owned Oculus VR recently estimated that it’d cost less than $1,500 to buy a Rift headset and a good PC that can run VR games. But if enough developers use multi-res shading, you might be able to get by with a cheaper PC configuration. And if you already have a great GPU, you can enjoy all the little details that developers now have room to cram into their games.
Nvidia’s announcement comes just months before the first wave of VR devices hit store shelves. The HTC Vive is releasing before the holidays, and both the Oculus Rift and Sony’s Project Morpheus are arriving sometime in 2016.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
