Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Batman: Arkham Knight PC preorder deal hits big discount at up to 46% off Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
This sponsored post is produced by Dealzon. Updated 6/1/2015, console deals added.
As we near Rocksteady’s latest Batman: Arkham Knight’ s release date – a flurry of trailer and gameplay videos – plus preorder deals are surfacing – particularly since we’re edging up on E3 2015. While console gamers of the game are subjected to many different preorder bonuses based on retailer they purchase from, PC gamers have it slightly easier given all digital retailers have essentially the same pre-order bonuses.
Bargain hunters also get an extra incentive this weekend in the form of a preorder discount at up to 46% for Arkham Knight, depending on the edition you purchase from digital retailer Green Man Gaming.
Preorder deals available as of writing: Batman: Arkham Knight Standard Edition for $36 (40% off) Batman: Arkham Knight Premium Edition for $54 (46% off) Use coupon: 40OFFB-ATAKVC-GMGRB9 Premium Edition comes bundled with Season Pass, which currently has a list price of $39.99.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Note: some caveats on the discount code listed above. First, you must make sure your GMG account has email subscription enabled in account profile. Plus, in order to avoid an “Unable to add voucher” error during checkout, you’ll need to fill in your address in the account profile too. This should solve most people’s problem.
Alternative PC deals: Gamesplanet is £21.99 for those in the UK (37% off) DLGamer is $50.99 for US/EU (15% off) All of the retailers listed above are giving Steam produce code of the game (just launch your client, click on add game, insert code and you’re set). Because of this, they all come with the standard preorder bonus of playing as Harley Quinn in its special story pack DLC.
Astute readers will note that the Premium Edition gets the most percentage in discount (from its expensive $99.99 list price). This is because all digital version pre-orders already includes a 10% discount, stacking the previously mentioned 40% off nets you a combined 46% off.
Console deals available: In terms of console deals, there’s not much on the market right now but you do get some extra bonuses if you decide to buy from Best Buy or Microsoft Store.
Batman: Arkham Knight (Xbox One) is $59.99 at Microsoft Store Bonus: $10 Xbox gift card digital code + release day delivery Batman: Arkham Knight (PS4) is $53.99 at Groupon Use Code: G10 For Microsoft Store’s special deal on release day delivery, you’ll need to order before 2PM PDT on June 19th in order to get the game in-time for the June 23rd release date. This is a pretty decent offer considering you won’t have to fight any crowds to grab the game on day 1. The special catch being that you’ll have to live in an area with overnight delivery available (rural Alaska is out of luck).
For Best Buy’s pre-order bonus on Arkham Knight (which is also available on other platforms), you’ll need to sign up for a My Best Buy reward account, which you can do so here.
If you’ve found other deals not listed above, let us know in the comments and we’ll investigate if its an authorized retailer and add it to the list! GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
