Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Windows 10 and Windows 10 Pro OEM pricing leaked by Newegg.com Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Uh oh. The online retailer Newegg.com has leaked the pricing for OEM copies of the Windows 10 and Windows 10 Pro operating systems.
The leak was uncovered by Ed Bott over at ZDNet Saturday afternoon.
Bott did a simple search for Windows 10 at the site and found two OEM System Builder packages for sale.
Newegg.com is even accepting preorders for the items. It’s selling Windows 10 Home for $109.99 and Windows 10 Pro for $149.99.
The Windows 10 operating system is scheduled to become available this summer in 190 countries and 111 languages. Rumors have said the release will happen in late July.
The Newegg.com listing says the OEM versions will be released August 31.
Above: Screen grab from Newegg.com courtesy of ZDNet.
Bott points out that Newegg also jumped the gun with preorders for Windows 8 in 2012.
 But the prices for the Windows 10 packages are $10 higher than Windows 8 and Windows 8 Pro when they were launched.
Windows 10 will ship with several recently announced features, including the Windows Hello authentication system, according to a Microsoft statement.
Microsoft first unveiled Windows 10 in September.
Source: ZDNet VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
