Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Hot VC firm led by Palantir cofounder plans to spend $100M on wearables, connected home gear Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Palantir cofounder Joe Lonsdale Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Formation 8, one of the hottest Silicon Valley VC firms, recently set up a new $100 million fund solely dedicated to startups building hardware, like wearables, web-connected home devices, and semiconductors.
The reason: Hardware startups have long been passed up by traditional VC investors.
Formation 8, which is led by Palantir cofounder Joe Lonsdale, claims its new fund is the world’s first fund exclusively focused on hardware startups. And according to its presentation acquired by BuzzFeed , hardware startups indeed seem to have been considered second fiddle to software and service companies over the past few years.
(Disclosure: Formation 8 is one of VentureBeat’s investors.
) Some of the data that sticks out from the presentation include: 500+ VC funds nationwide vs. 0 hardware specific funds 300+ software startup incubators vs. 5 hardware incubators 6,000 startups funded annually vs. 250 hardware startups funded annually $50 billion in annual VC funding vs. $850 million in annual hardware venture funding This could be due to a number of different reasons, including the nature of long testing cycles and expensive operational costs of hardware products. But the presentation says recent advancements made in cloud computing and the consumer space (i.e. Oculus, Apple Watch) make it an area that may have huge opportunities ahead.
In fact, hardware industries like drones and wearables have seen some traction over the past couple of years, with a few big name brands attracting millions of dollars in investments. According to research firm CB Insights, the wearable tech market saw almost $1 billion in aggregate funding last year, while drone startups raised over $100 million, including DJI — who’s now reportedly valued at $8 billion.
But Formation 8 may have one distinct advantage over other investors in the hardware space. One of its cofounders is Brian Koo, the grandson of the founder of LG Electronics, and his family has deep ties with the big manufacturers in Asia.
For example, Oculus, the virtual reality company Facebook bought for $2 billion, was able to connect with Samsung and other Asian manufacturers through Formation 8, who was an early investor in Oculus.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
