Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Opinion Apple’s promotion of Jony Ive is not a push toward the exit, it’s a smart strategic move Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Some in the tech media went off the deep end in their interpretation of the Jony Ive promotion story this week.
Almost immediately, media types were weighing in with theories that Ive’s promotion to chief design officer is really a fluffy way of easing him out of the organization.
Some cited past interviews in which Sir Jony said he’d like to move back to Dear Old Blighty.
But it’s all nonsense.
Great companies put their people in roles where they can use their best talents most of the time. That’s what Apple is doing.
Ive, simply put, is the best conduit Apple has to the winning technology-plus-design aesthetic of Steve Jobs. Ive was not only a good friend of Jobs, but the two men connected on a design level, too. That’s not something Tim Cook can say.
Apple is trying to put Ive in a place where he can think big thoughts about product roadmaps, about major design themes that cut across all Apple products, about what’s coming next, and about product-market fit five years in the future. That’s really heady stuff. And Apple’s future depends on it.
Ive said himself in a Telegraph interview that he was trying to get out of management and administration, which he says he isn’t good at. Whether he’s good at those things or not doesn’t matter; he shouldn’t be scheduling meetings and signing expense reports.
So everybody calm down. Ive isn’t going anywhere. Apple is doing what it can to make Apple CDO Ive’s dream job.
As John Gruber at Daring Fireball points out , only three C-level positions exist at Apple, and Ive has one of them (Tim Cook and CFO Luca Maestri have the other two). Would Apple create a new CDO position as a tool to ease Ive out? No way.
The only troubling thing I heard about the promotion was that Ive apparently wants to spend more time designing the Apple Stores and working on Apple’s new campus. Those interests should occupy about 10 percent of Ive’s time.
Most of the rest should be spent staring at a white wall somewhere, thinking about the Next Big Thing.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
