Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages How do you make sense of 2,000+ marketing tech companies? Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
This week on What to Think, we speak to John Koetsier, the vice president of research at VB Insight, VentureBeat’s new market-research arm.
VB Insight is taking a very data-driven approach to research. Case in point: For its latest report on social media management tools, VB Insight surveyed over 1,100 social media managers, analyzed a quarter-million tweets sent by 1,600 companies, and considered almost 200 different social media tools, ultimately doing detailed analysis of 28 leading tools.
That’s a valuable asset in the marketing tech world, which has a huge number of players — over 2,000 at last count — and attracted over $3 billion in venture investment in the last quarter alone. In other words, it’s a market with a lot of complexity and a lot of hype.
We talk to John about the value of marketing technologies, what marketing clouds are standing out, what the current trends are, and about the inevitable wave of consolidation that’s coming.
Plus, we tell you what to think about: Google unveils ultra low-cost Project Fi wireless service with pay-as-you-go data rate Facebook’s secret plan to kill Google — and become the second trillion-dollar company in the process Amazon Web Services is now a $5B business All this and more is in our latest weekly episode. Give it a listen! You can also find the latest edition of What to Think on iTunes or on SoundCloud.
In addition, you can find What to Think on Stitcher or get the What to Think RSS feed for the podcast player of your choice.
Enjoy the show! VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
