Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Xbox 360 system update adds new features, more storage capacity Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Xbox 360 console from Microsoft.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Microsoft didn’t forget about you, Xbox 360 owners.
The Xbox 360 sees a new update today that will allow the game console to support external USB hard disk storage of up to two terabytes in size, blasting past the current 32 gigabyte cap. The company says that this increase, which allows for more games, saves, and other data to be stored and used, was one of the most requested features voted on at the Xbox Feedback website. Today’s deployment of this update, which also adds several new backend features to the console, serves the more than 83 million Xbox 360 owners worldwide.
Smaller updates for the Xbox 360 operating system include the ability to review your purchase history, reset passwords, or view network statistics. There’s also a setting that allows your Microsoft account balance to appear in the upper right hand corner of the dashboard.
Xbox 360 OS version 2.0.17349.0 is available for download now.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
