Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Valve launches OpenVR dev kit for virtual reality hardware makers Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn HTC's take on SteamVR.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Valve has released its software development kit for hardware makers who want to make devices that take advantage of its OpenVR virtual reality technology.
The release is a big step toward enabling developers to start making VR applications that run on a variety of Valve Steam VR devices.
The OpenVR SDK is now availabe for download here.
 Applications can now access SteamVR hardware via the OpenVR SDK. That means that Valve’s SteamVR software will run on more than just HTC’s Vive VR hardware.
The Valve tech supports the HTC Vive Developer Edition, the headset debuting this fall from mobile device maker HTC. But you can also use other VR hardware in conjunction with the SteamVR controller and Lighthouse, which is a Valve technology that makes VR easier to exeprience.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Valve has also posted release notes to show what has changed from the Steamworks VR. The SDK also includes new documentation and samples.
Along with the OpenVR SDK, support has been added to Unity via the SteamVR Unity Plugin and Unreal 4.8 will support SteamVR natively. The Unity plugin is available in the Unity Asset Store , and Unreal support is available now via the Unreal Github repository.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
