Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Valve has a game that lets you pretend to be a unicorn in virtual reality Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn It's beautiful! Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Disclosure: The organizers of the Slush game conference paid my way Iceland, where I was the master of ceremonies. Our coverage remains objective.
When I was in the second grade, I told my teacher that I wanted to be a unicorn. And while the other kids may have laughed at me, I may still get the last laugh.
Valve, the company that owns Steam and is developing the Steam VR platform, has built an internal test game for virtual reality that lets you play as a unicorn. In this game, which Valve writer Chet Faliszek simply called “balloons,” it’s your job to use the horn on your head to pop the balloons that are falling from the ceiling. Faliszek didn’t mention any plans that Valve has to release this as a consumer product, but he did highlight how building experiences like this is helping Valve better understand VR.
“Before we had controllers, and we just had visual tracking, we experimented with all kinds of ideas,” Faliszek said in a presentation at the SlushPlay conference in Iceland earlier this week. “We just tried all kinds of things. Balloon was this game where you’re a unicorn with a horn atop your head. We then added a bit of a game where you only pop the pink ones and popping the other ones would take away from your score. It was stupid. It was fun. People played it, and people loved it. We learned really quickly that balloons — the physics of it — just work.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! That discovery provided Valve with valuable data that it is still using today.
At the Game Developers Conference that happened in San Francisco in March, I got to try out the HTC Vive, which is the first consumer product built on the Steam VR platform. The first thing that the person running the demo instructed me to do was to press a button on the left controller. This caused a balloon to immediately start inflating out of the tip of the motion-tracked joystick.
I then, unprompted by the Valve representative, used my other controller to bump the balloon in the air. It was very satisfying, and it felt very real.
But Valve only came to this place because it was messing around with the limited tech it had early on, and that was one of the messages that Faliszek was trying to impart on the developers in attendance at SlushPlay.
“Don’t just go straight at the problem,” he said. “You’re experimenting. Just start doing stupid things because who knows where it will lead.” GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
