Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Terra Battle reaches 2 million downloads worldwide, console version in development Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Mistwalker released a special music video to celebrate the 2 million download milestone.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
It’s a new world where mobile games get ported to consoles.
Mistwalker Corporation announced that its mobile strategy role-playing game Terra Battle has passed 2 million downloads since its October 2014 release. The Tokyo-based developer best known for console role-playing games such as Lost Odyssey and Blue Dragon confirms today that it is holding to its original promise for from its download starter campaign for this milestone to bring the game to consoles. Studio founder (and Final Fantasy series creator) Hironobu Sakaguchi says development on the console versions is currently underway, though specific platform details have yet to be noted.
The 2 million download mark was the top goal in Mistwalker’s download starter campaign (think Kickstarter for downloads instead of funds), so it is working on future milestone rewards. These rewards will be revealed at a later date.
Plans for the console version are likely in the earliest stages. Sakaguchi confessed that he had “absolutely no plans” for the console version in an interview with Polygon in March. He said that he wasn’t even certain that the game could meet the 2 million download milestone.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Sakaguchi told GamesBeat in an interview during the 2015 Game Developers Conference that while he had tried to create a much lighter game for the mobile space with Terra Battle, the team couldn’t help itself, and ended up building a game that could match a console role-playing game in scope and depth. He said that Mistwalker plans to expand the game even beyond this work, calling the thirty available chapters of the mobile title a sort of “part one” for Terra Battle, pointing to a second and maybe even third phase.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
