Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release Personalization Becomes Accessible Reality for All Golfers with Unique Kickstarter Campaign Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn TEMECULA, Calif.–(BUSINESS WIRE)–April 30, 2015– Custom Steel Shafts (CSS) is sprucing up the game of golf by customizing steel golf shafts with colors, logos and more. “We’re bringing a great concept to the industry by creating endless possibilities,” says Jeffrey Neal, CEO of CSS. Neal has perfected the art of painting steel golf shafts that are durable and only add about two grams to the overall weight of the club. Forget trying to do this at home, the CSS process is superior and engineered to last.
In addition to eleven standard and eight premium colors, CSS has the ability to etch logos and words into the shafts. “If you can type it, we can etch it”, Neal explains. “College and professional sports logos are coming soon as well as the four main branches of military.” Previously only available to tour players like the winner of the 2013 US Open, CSS has started a Kickstarter campaign in order to raise capital to bring the product to the public market with perks like a thank you and your own design on a shaft. They have a touching, family-centered video that highlights their process and work with a major charity. Everyday golfers will be able to get the same, high-quality process that was only previously available to Tour professionals or manufacturers once the campaign is successful.
You can see the Kickstarter campaign here https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/1047039839/customized-painted-steel-golf-shafts-with-laser-en VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
