Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft’s face-recognition app How Old gets everyone’s age wrong, turns into a meme Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Nope.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
My Twitter timeline just blew up with selfies with boxes hovering above faces guessing how old people are, thanks to a demo app Microsoft showed off today to prove its face-recognition savvy — or lack thereof.
“It’s a really fun API [application programming interface] that allows you to submit pictures, detect faces in that, and tells you an estimate of their age and gender,” Microsoft corporate vice president Joseph Sirosh said onstage at Microsoft’s Build conference in San Francisco today.
Sirosh told everyone at the conference — in the crowd and online — to check out the app, at how-old.net , which uses Microsoft’s Face API. Lots of people gave it a try. But instead of generating a whole bunch of “wow” remarks on Twitter, the demo was sort of a flop. People complained how far off the estimates were — and then started making fun of it.
(Update: Microsoft wants to improve the face-recognition technology underlying the app.
) See for yourself, starting with the real ones and then the mockeries: Apparently I haven’t aged well pic.twitter.com/wf2Wl9bplg — Ryan Hoover (@rrhoover) April 30, 2015 Microsoft isn’t very good at guessing the age of baby dolls pic.twitter.com/B24m6ZBqtg — Tom Warren (@tomwarren) April 30, 2015 Ahaha pic.twitter.com/lti5ahx745 — Ruth Reader (@RuthReader) April 30, 2015 Oh dear, might have to shave the damn beard.
pic.twitter.com/qUxO4paXMx — Ed Bott (@edbott) April 30, 2015 msft thinks i’m 30, but also 25.
pic.twitter.com/nyH1ETM6Mw — Selena Larson (@selenalarson) April 30, 2015 well go fuck yourself microsoft.
pic.twitter.com/rgZs5Lqv45 — drew olanoff (@drew) April 30, 2015 Lmao @microsoft @GabeAul @thurrott @satyanadella @tomwarren @maryjofoley @joebelfiore @JoannaStern #Build2015 pic.twitter.com/r9hJ8qAKzT — Brian Fagioli (@brianfagioli) April 30, 2015 THANKS FOR NOTHING MICROSOFT #Build2015 pic.twitter.com/l4xd7fYCZn — Owen Williams (@ow) April 30, 2015 Nope. Nope. Nope. Nope.
#Build2015 pic.twitter.com/ywfA2VXsqE — Simon Le Gros Bisson (@sbisson) April 30, 2015 Microsoft…really need to work on those algorithms, didnt even find my face.
pic.twitter.com/rkSKfaie1y — Brad Sams (@bdsams) April 30, 2015 Being a zombie really ages you.
http://t.co/dm3VwRHmwJ #Build2015 pic.twitter.com/Hmpfv6OaZD — Pete Pachal (@petepachal) April 30, 2015 VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
