Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Facebook hires Microsoft researchers to expand its artificial intelligence team Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Facebook sign Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Facebook today announced that it’s made several key additions to the growing Facebook Artificial Intelligence Research (FAIR) team.
The headcount in the lab’s California and New York offices now exceeds 40, Yann LeCun, the head of the lab and a prominent figure in a trendy type of AI called deep learning , wrote in a blog post.
Two of the hires announced today, Léon Bottou and Anitha Kannan, come from Microsoft Research, a major force in technology research and development and one that includes a good supply of AI talent. One person, Michael Auli, actually finished his postdoctoral work at Microsoft Research, and Facebook was nevertheless able to lure him over to the social networking giant. Two, Laurens van der Maaten and Nicolas Usunier, were previously professors at European universities.
All of this hiring activity in AI isn’t surprising given the considerable amount of money Facebook has been allocating for research and development.
Major tech companies have been racing to bring on experts in deep learning.
Snapchat recently established a research team that will be doing deep learning on content such as images. But Facebook, of course, is at a much greater scale.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
