Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages 80 percent of Pinterest’s traffic comes from mobile devices Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Pinterest team.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
New numbers Pinterest is releasing today point to the continuing growth of the web service for pinning pictures and other content to interest boards.
The company now claims that it has more than 50 billion pins of items on more than 1 billion boards, among other things.
“These are the highest ever,” a company spokeswoman told VentureBeat in an email today.
Pinterest also said it’s doubled its male user base in the U.S. this year.
“Last year our male user base in the U.S. grew 73 percent year over year, and has been picking up in the past 6 months (54 percent) vs. the prior 6 months (40 percent), which is outpacing overall Pinterest growth,” the spokeswoman wrote.
What’s more, traffic has shifted to mobile in a big way. Four-fifths of Pinterest’s traffic now comes from mobile, according to the new stats today.
Here are some other growth stats Pinterest is sharing today: Each year, we serve more than 1.5 trillion recommendations Recipes: We have over 1.7 billion recipe Pins Shopping: Every day nearly 2 million people Pin product rich Pins Articles: More than 14 million articles are Pinned each day 2/3 of all the content people Pin is from a business’ website San Francisco-based Pinterest started in 2010. Last month it disclosed that it had raised $367 million in a new funding round that could be as large as $577.9 million.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
