Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Inside ESPN’s first redesign since 2009 — it finally looks good on your phone Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn ESPN.com, circa 2015 Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
ESPN is rolling out a completely redesigned site in time for its 20th anniversary.
For a website with up to 2.3 million visits per hour, this is a big deal.
The former site, in web years, is vintage at six years old. The new one is responsive (it looks good on your phone or tablet), friendlier, socially adept, and otherwise not old as hell.
 Here’s how the redesigned site looks on an iPad.
Above: The new ESPN.com, iPad view So long, old ESPN.com Before we proceed, I should give the former ESPN.com its due. The site’s actually aged well despite our jabs (sorry to our buddies at ESPN). In fact, ESPN broke traffic records this January with ESPN.com Classic.
The old ESPN.com has apparently done so well that there’s “nothing that says we need to redesign the site,” the company’s product SVP Ryan Spoon told us yesterday. But ESPN believes a new focus on mobile, video, and shareable Material Design -esque content cards will push it over the edge.
As a final hurrah, here’s ESPN’s old site: Above: The former ESPN.com A safe, smart redesign We recently explored the ins and outs of another major media company’s redesign: Bloomberg Business.
 But where Bloomberg’s new design is beautifully bizarre, led by the company’s jarring design sense, ESPN’s new site is a product of UX tests, data, and modern convention.
Spoon’s team conducted thousands of on-site tests over the past year before arriving at the following results.
Playing it safe wasn’t a bad call. Sure, I’d get a kick out of a riskier redesign, but for a site of ESPN’s size and success, tweaking a single button could weaken an exec’s knees — let alone remaking an entire site. For this, we’ll give ESPN a full pass. The redesign is bold enough. Fans are finally getting a fresh site that is far easier to use on any device.
Great work, ESPN. Please do pass Go and collect $200.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
