Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages New Twitch mobile update adds a neverending video player Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Twitch.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Chain Twitch streams infinitely with this new update.
The latest update for the iOS and Android Twitch app adds the capability to watch a video while browsing other content, letting users keep an eye on one broadcast while looking for the next stream to watch. The Amazon-owned livestreaming video company has found yet another way to keep its more than 65 million users’ faces glued to the screen and tuned into its more than 1 million game-focused content streamers.
Much like YouTube’s mobile app, the Twitch update has a video constantly playing, though viewers can swipe away should they want the full screen for browsing. Android users (version 4.3+ and after) get a bonus audio-only mode that lets them listen to broadcasts in the background, even if the device is locked.
The updated app is available on both Google Play or the App Store now.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
