Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google Maps meets Pac-Man: Munch up power pellets in your neighborhood Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
You can finally unleash Pac-Man on the streets you travel every day.
Google has added a Pac-Man button to its Maps website (via Offworld ). This enables you to turn any collection of roads into an instant map for the hungry arcade hero. Simply go to maps.google.com and zoom in on some streets until you see the Pac-Man button. Click it, and Google brings up the game interface.
This is, of course, the latest in a long-string of April Fools’ Day gags from Google. The company is known for adding silly and fun features to its products on the first day of April every year.
Two years ago, Google Maps joked about launching an 8-bit version for the Nintendo Entertainment System. Check that out: Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Google clearly loves games, as a number of its jokes are related to the medium.
You can still turn Google’s search into a game of Breakout by searching for “ Atari Breakout.
” Google.com will spin around in a 360 if you type “ Do a barrel roll ,” which is a reference to the Super Nintendo shooter Star Fox. Searching for “ Zerg rush ” will cause a surprise attack on the results page, which looks a lot like an move from the game Starcraft.
On the Google Play app market for Android, if you swipe in the first part of the Konami code (Up, Up, Down, Down, Left, Right, Left, Right), a box will appear with buttons for “B,” “A,” and “Start” — which is how you end the infamous code.
And finally, one of the most well-known Google jokes was its partnership with Nintendo for The Google Maps Pokémon Challenge.
 This had people using the maps program to find the pocket monsters hiding in real places around the world map.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
