Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare owners on Xbox One are once again having issues downloading content Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The new maps are out on Xbox, but you may encounter errors when you go to download them.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Update for April 1: Microsoft has removed the error report from its status website, but some people are still experiencing issues.
Something is Microsoft’s backend is not playing nice with Call of Duty. It’s happened before, and it’s happening again.
Publisher Activision launched the Ascendance downloadable content for Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare today on Xbox One, but some gamers who own the map pack cannot download it. Microsoft and Activision have confirmed that they are working to fix a problem where Xbox Live asks gamers to pay for the new Ascendance content even if they already have purchased a season pass for all Advanced Warfare DLC. This is the latest manifestation of this problem, which previously plagued an earlier add-on pack for this Call of Duty release on Xbox One.
“We’re aware of the issue and working with our partner to find a fix,” reads the Microsoft support website.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Back in December , Xbox One gamers who purchased the Advanced Warfare season pass reported issues downloading the AE4 Widowmaker energy rifle when it debuted near the end of last year. This weapon was a part of the first map pack for the latest Call of Duty game, but people who bought into the season pass got early access to it. But many still couldn’t download the laser gun even weeks after it debuted while Activision and Microsoft tried to figure out the source of the troubles.
Now, we have a similar problem with the Ascendance pack. We’ve asked Microsoft for an explanation. It has not said publicly why this keeps happening, and we’ll update this post if we can get an answer.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
