Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Bandai Namco opens up Pac-Man and other classic arcade IPs to Japanese developers Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Pac-Man Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Pac-Man and pals are now free agents in Japan. Sort of.
Bandai Namco announced its catalog IP open project, which would enable Japanese game makers access to some of the company’s most popular characters and properties, such as Pac-Man, DigDug, Xevious, Mappy, and Wonder Momo.
This project begins in April , and it’s only available to Japanese creators, with the games created only coming to Japanese consumers. While it’s already one of the largest game publishers in Japan, this move will allow the company’s properties to show up on more platforms and devices, giving it further reach into the video game software industry, a market that game investment bank Digi-Capital says will reach $100 billion by 2017.
Here are the IPs that Bandai Nacmo will make available: Pac-Man Galaxian Xevious Mappy Galaga DigDug Tower of Duruga Battle City Star Luster Tower of Babel The Adventure of Valkyrie Sky Kid Dragon Buster Shadow Land Genpei Toma Den Wonder Momo Wagan Land The company suggests phone and browser games as an approach for the use of its characters, and creators will only need to undergo a simplified process to be approved. It’s still working on the details of the submission process, as well as details on what platforms and business methods it will accept. It’s not clear yet how the company will make money from this project. Bandai Namco will update creators once these factors are decided.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
