Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Slack just made it easier to find key files or comments in channels Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Slack's channel update.
Slack today announced that it has rolled out some potentially helpful new features for the channels within its team-communication app. Now Slack users can “pin” specific statements to the rail summarizing a channel.
“Need to pin a file or a message to the channel so people can access it quickly and easily? No problem!” Slack said in a blog post on the new feature today. “You can pin multiple things! Just click the cog next to a message or file (or long hold on mobile) to pin it to the channel.” Slack has also made it easier to see a description of each channel front and center when you click the little “i” to the left of the search bar. And to the right of the search bar, you can see your recent mentions (the at sign), as well as the items you starred (the star).
It’s a bit of good news for users following last week’s disclosure of a hack of Slack , which hit the company back in February. In announcing the hack, Slack also said two-factor authentication was now available for the app.
Today’s update also makes it possible to see which users of a given channel are currently online. For instance, in one internal VentureBeat Slack channel, I can now see that two of five “members” are online. If I don’t care to see the full list of all five members, I can now hit an upside-down triangle and collapse it. Or I can collapse the new Pinned Items section — or the channel description.
Slack is growing quickly. Two weeks ago, the company brought its app to Windows.
 And according to a report last week, the company was nearly finished raising a $160 million round at a $2.76 billion valuation.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
