Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Etsy prices shares at $14-$16, aims to raise as much as $267M in IPO (updated) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Etsy logo.
Updated 1:47 p.m. PT: We mixed up the roadshow and trading date. We apologize for the error.
Today Etsy revealed that it plans to price shares at between $14 and $16 when it starts trading on the NASDAQ.
In an official statement, Etsy says it aims to sell 16.7 million shares, raising somewhere between $233 million and $267 million in the process. Etsy originally aimed to raise around $100 million when it filed to go public on March 4.
Although Etsy’s provided us with this $14 to $16 price range, don’t be surprised if the final price shifts before the company actually starts trading.
Here’s Etsy’s announcement, in full: Etsy, Inc. [“Etsy”], a marketplace where people around the world connect, both online and offline, to make, sell and buy unique goods, today announced that it expects to launch the roadshow for the initial public offering (IPO) of its common stock on April 1, 2015. The offering is for 16,666,666 shares. Etsy is offering 13,333,333 shares and the selling stockholders are offering 3,333,333 shares. The selling stockholders have also granted the underwriters an option to purchase up to 2,499,999 additional shares. The initial public offering price is currently expected to be between $14.00 and $16.00 per share. Etsy has applied to list its common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the ticker symbol “ETSY.” Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC are acting as joint book-running managers for the proposed offering. Allen & Company LLC is acting as co-manager.
Etsy plans to reserve up to 5% of the shares to be sold in the offering as part of an IPO Participation Program for individuals. The program will be administered by Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC. Please visit http://etsyipo.morganstanley.com for more information.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
