Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Uber says it was hacked — last spring Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn From the Uber website Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
(Updated 07:08 am PT with information on the GitHub subpoena) Uber reported Friday that it was hacked last year, resulting in an unauthorized access to 50,000 drivers’ names and license plate numbers by a third party.
In a post on its corporate blog , the app-based car service company said it discovered the breach in September, although it’s not clear why it waited until now to make the event public. The post noted that an investigation showed the breach had been conducted on May 13, 2014.
A “John Doe” lawsuit has been filed by the company, at least initially to provide a legal vehicle for collecting information.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Uber has subpoenaed developer collaboration site GitHub , seeking the IP addresses of anyone who viewed a specific post — which apparently contained a login key — from March to September of 2014. GitHub has declined to voluntarily turn over the information.
After discovering the attack, User said, it changed protocols for the database and notified the drivers.
“We have not received any reports of actual misuse of information as a result of this incident,” the company posted, adding that it has contacted the drivers and offered a free one-year membership to Experian’s ProtectMyID Alert.
The approximately 50,000 drivers whose data was lifted are spread out across “multiple states,” Uber said, and represent only a small percentage of the total number of current and former drivers.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
