Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sprint teases Samsung Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge with new photos Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
We’re two days away from Samsung taking the wraps off the new Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge at the Barcelona Mobile World Congress. But in the meantime, partner Sprint has posted a landing site that teases the new gadgets.
There had been some previous leaks of photos of the S6 a few weeks ago, which indicated it would look a lot like Apple’s iPhone 6.
In addition, a Reddit user who is marked as a “verified employee” of Sprint, posted this other teaser: After a rough year in which Samsung saw its market share plummet around the world, the South Korean giant is hoping that the unveiling this weekend will help it regain lost ground in the smartphone market. It faces a huge challenge as Apple continues to experience tremendous demand for the iPhone 6, released last September.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
