Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Major League Baseball player Coco Crisp launches his own mobile game Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Coco Crisp. Not pictured: his cousin Count Chocula.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
First off, yes, his name is Coco Crisp. He’s a center fielder for the Oakland Athletics, and he just launched a mobile game.
Called Fro Patrol, Crisp’s free-to-play is available now for iPhone, according to SFGate.
 Crisp created the design idea — which stars a cartoon version of him dodging baseballs and scissors — while MEDL Mobile and Crazy Cove handled development. Crisp said on Twitter that he will create an Android version if the game does well on iOS.
Started launch on iPhone and if it does well then look at doing it for android pic.twitter.com/oJwniZn96A — Covelli Crisp (@Coco_Crisp) February 27, 2015 Crisp is actually learning computer programming himself via online courses, so someday we might see him release a game that he actually coded. This could lead to a healthy second career after he retires from baseball, as the mobile game industry has grown to $30 billion, with revenues expected to exceed the console industry’s this year, according to market researcher Newzoo.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Of course, not all baseball players have had success in the world of gaming. Former pitcher Curt Shilling famously went bankrupt with 38 Studios, a company that only released one game, 2012’s Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning. The company was also working on a massively multiplayer online role-playing game when it shut down.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
