Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Ambitious Crowfall online role-playing game already passes Kickstarter goal Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn "Hey, did anyone drop this crown?" Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Well, that didn’t take long.
The massively multiplayer online role-playing game Crowfall has already passed its $800,000 Kickstarter goal. It has currently raised $819,581. The MMO started its crowdfunding campaign Tuesday , giving it 26 more days to earn extra cash for stretch goals, including upgraded special effects and character mounts.
Crowfall promises to bring persistent change to the MMO, with destructible environments and a focus on political alliances. Gordon Walton and J. Todd Coleman head the project, and they have combined worked on notable MMOs like Ultima Online, Star Wars Galaxies, Star Wars: The Old Republic, Shadowbane, and Pirate101.
World of Warcraft dominates the MMO market. It is again at 10 million subscribers , and it’s been the king of the genre since it launched in 2004. Still, the quick funding of Crowfall proves that some players are looking for something different. In fact, its Kickstarter page mostly focuses on aspects that make it unique, like the campaign-focused adventures and voxel-based environments.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
