Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sols aims to disrupt Dr. Scholl’s with $11M and 3D-printed insoles Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn SOLS' flagship insole Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Sols , a company that hopes to change the way you walk with 3D-printed insoles, has secured $11.1 million in funding from Founders Fund, Lux Capital, Tenaya Capital, and Melo7 Tech Partners.
Led by founder Kegan Schouwenburg, Sols only distributes its custom insoles in partnership with doctors — for now. The new funds, Schouwenburg tells us, will enable the company to launch a far cheaper direct-to-consumer product.
At heart of Sols’ technology is in how it generates 3D models of your foot. The company’s site claims it only needs “three photos” to capture “thousands of data points” and build the insole. From there, the insole is printed, refined, and shipped to consumers in about six days, Sols’ site says.
For Sols, insoles are apparently just the beginning. The company tells us it aims to eventually makes its products “smart” — wearable and health tracking tech — and has already experimented with entirely 3D printed shoes.
As far as hype goes, the 3D printing industry is sort of a paradox; like virtual reality, it continues to excite, yet it hasn’t really changed the way we live. Schouwenburg, formerly 3D printing marketplace Shapeways’ director of industrial engineering , seems to believe Sols will spark a new wave in custom, mass-manufactured products.
New York-based Sols has raised $19.3 million to date.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
