Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Skully closes $11M series A for its hi-tech ‘intelligent’ motorcycle helmet Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Skully, the maker of an 'intelligent' motorcycle helmet, has raised an $11 million Series A round.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Skully, the maker of a hi-tech motorcycle helmet with an augmented reality system that shows a wide-angle view of the road and navigation directions on a heads-up display, has closed an $11 million series A round of financing.
The round was led by Walden Riverwood Ventures and Intel Capital. Riverwood was also a lead investor in GoPro’s series A round, a connection that Skully founder and CEO Marcus Weller told VentureBeat was vital for a startup that considers GoPro’s expertise vital to its own success.
Skully has a lot of people excited. Its Indiegogo campaign last year raised more than $3.4 million. Its AR-1 helmet used an augmented-reality system to portray real-time information, including incoming calls, on its glass visor. All that information, Skully said, is meant to provide motorcycle riders with valuable situational awareness.
The company plans on using its new capital to ramp up manufacturing in order to fulfill its Indiegogo orders, as well as to hire a large number of new engineers. Weller said he hopes to triple the size of the company.
Weller said that he thinks the extreme interest in the Skully helmet, with the Indiegogo campaign as proof, showed that augmented-reality systems like it uses are the manifestation of “something geeks had fantasized about for years.” Added Weller, “It’s like Robocop or Terminator. It’s something we fantasized about for so long, and that’s why it’s resonating.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
