Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Funding Daily: Today’s tech funding news, in one place Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Here’s a list of today’s tech funding stories, updated as the day unfolds. Tip us here if you have a deal to share.
Jawbone may raise as much as $300M A report claims that Jawbone is close to raising “ as much as $300 million ” from BlackRock. This story follows an earlier report which claimed that Google might invest in Jawbone.
 These reports arrive at a difficult time for Jawbone; the company has experienced significant manufacturing delays in recent months.
Read more: Fortune Kobalt gets $60M from Google Ventures, Michael Dell Kobalt Music, which uses a proprietary technology to speed up the collection of music royalties, has reportedly closed a $60 million series C round of financing from Google Ventures and Michael Dell.
According to Kobalt, which confirmed the investment to VentureBeat, the new funding brings the company’s total capital raised to $126 million.
Read more Sols aims to disrupt Dr. Scholl’s with $11M & 3D-printed insoles Sols , a company that hopes to change the way you walk with 3D-printed insoles, has secured $11.1 million in funding from Founders Fund, Lux Capital, Tenaya Capital, and Melo7 Tech Partners. New York-based Sols has raised $19.3 million to date.
Read more Craft marketplace company LoveCrafts raises $7.5M Today LoveCrafts, operator of sites like LoveKnitting.com , announced a $7.5 million funding round from Balderton Capital. The London-based company has raised $10 million to date.
Read more: Startups.co.uk Gaming backend technology company PlayFab raises $7.4M PlayFab announced today that it raised $7.4 million in a series-A funding round. This brings total investment in the company to $9.9 million after about a year after its launch. The company provides game makers with cross-platform tools to keep live games running on PC, console, and mobile.
Read more Atlas Obscura grabs $2M to become a National Geographic for millennials Atlas Obscura may not be on the top of your go-to sites for travel inspiration, but today the New York-based company announced its first significant round of external funding, garnering $2 million from a myriad of investors that include media companies such as The New York Times, VC funds such as New Atlantic Ventures, and angels such as Reddit’s Alexis Ohanian.
Read more This list will be updated with breaking funding news all day. Check back for more.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
