Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google launches a dashboard to update developers on the status of Cloud Platform services Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Google Cloud Platform Status Dashboard in action.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Google today formally announced the existence of a status dashboard for several of its cloud infrastructure services in the Google Cloud platform.
The dashboard first showed up online last year in “experimental” mode, but now that designation has been dropped. Google does still consider it to be in beta, though.
If you’d like to have updates on issues pop up in an RSS reader, you can do that now, according to Google product manager Amir Hermelin’s blog post today announcing the dashboard.
Google has been more and more vocal in the past several months about its intent to compete hard in the cloud infrastructure market, of which Amazon Web Services is the leader. Microsoft also holds a prominent position in that business with its Azure cloud infrastructure. Through price cuts, feature releases, and data center expansions, these companies are constantly trying to outdo one another. A solid dashboard showing the health of a slew of Google cloud services — not just the App Engine — is a crucial feature for engineers building or running applications on top of them. Indeed, Microsoft and Amazon have cloud service status pages of their own.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Check out Google’s dashboard for yourself here.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
