Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Vimeo finally introduces Chromecast support — but only on iOS Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Vimeo on Chromecast Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
In what can only be described as a long time coming, video-streaming platform Vimeo is finally introducing support for Chromecast — but the bad news is it’s only available on iOS for now. The update will be landing in the App Store today.
Support for Chromecast has been touted since the summer of 2013 , just after Google launched its HDMI-enabled streaming dongle; however, it has hitherto failed to materialize. Google launched Chromecast internationally last March, kicking off in Canada, the U.K., and nine other European countries. Many of the top TV and movie apps now support Chromecast around the world, including Netflix, YouTube, BBC iPlayer, and HBO Go, with Vimeo a glaring omission on this front.
Vimeo often lives in the shadows of YouTube, but it has 30 million registered members and sees north of 170 million people arrive on its site each month. It’s also seeking to differentiate itself from the pack by focusing more on exclusive content , powered in part by an on-demand platform that lets creatives sell or rent their content.
Above: Vimeo with Chromecast Besides its native mobile apps and website, Vimeo has been available through a range of connected devices and dongles for a while, including Samsung Smart TVs, Apple TV, Roku, Xbox 360, and Amazon Fire TV. Now, you can add Chromecast to that list, though the omission of Android for the initial launch is a little perplexing, given that Chromecast and Android are both Google technologies.
So why not Android? Well, a Vimeo spokesperson tells us that it’s largely down to “bandwidth” — the company has a relatively small mobile development team. However, the iOS-first approach is indicative of the company’s user base; it seems Android lags behind iOS for Vimeo. No timescale has been given for Android support, but we are reliably informed that Vimeo will be shifting attention to Android “in the coming months.” Android users can still leverage Chromecast with Vimeo using the dongle’s built-in “cast screen” feature that mirrors your mobile screen. This is only compatible with some Android tablets and phones , though many of the most popular ones are supported. It’s not quite as slick and seamless as a native Chromecast app, but it works well enough.
Meanwhile, you can download the updated Vimeo app for iOS now.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
