Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Meet Tworlds, an app that lets you see how your life compares to a stranger’s Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Two screens in Tworlds -- picking a Moment, seeing the combined images One of the biggest reasons Chatroulette became so popular back in 2009 was that it offered a window into the lives of strangers around the world.
There’s something exciting about seeing the world through another’s eyes, and while Chatroulette has since devolved into a landscape littered with creepy guys doing creepy things, a photo-sharing app called Tworlds is trying to recapture some of that same magic by adding some structure to the idea of anonymous, random connection.
The concept of Tworlds is pretty simple.
First you choose from a list of hashtags, or “moments,” like #work or #happy that are meant to be the subject of your photo. Tworlds forces you to take a new picture from within the app, which is designed to keep the experience feeling more like it’s happening in real time rather than turning into a place to share overedited photos taken days ago.
After snapping a picture of your workplace or something that brings you happiness, you’re immediately connected with a random user’s photo that shares the same hashtag somewhere else in the world. Tworlds stitches the two photos together, and you can even see the city and country of where your stranger’s photo was taken.
I actually had a lot of fun playing around with Tworlds, and I think it boils down to the structure that comes with connecting users with a common hashtag thread. If the app just randomly linked you up to another stranger’s photo, the unifying connection would unravel into Chatroulette territory. Comparing how someone in Turkey and New York interpret what a “happy” photo looks like, though, makes you think. It reminded me a bit of the photo prompts in the pen-pal app Wayfare , but simplified to focus only on real-time photo sharing.
I’m not sure whether I’ll still be playing around with Tworlds next week, but for those looking for a quick and easy way to explore the world through someone else’s phone, it’s worth a try.
You can download Tworlds over at the App Store.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
