Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Cricket Wireless ups data allotments in basic plans Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Cricket Wireless , a prepaid wireless service owned by AT&T, announced that it’s upping the data allowance for its basic plans.
The carrier’s “Basic” tier will move from a monthly data allowance of 1GB to 2.5GB, while its $50 “Smart” tier will increase from 3GB to 5GB of monthly data. There’s also a more expensive $60/month “Smart” plan with a data allotment of 20GB, but that’s a “limited time only” offer.
You can use any unlocked GSM/HSPA phone with the Cricket service. Cricket also offers a decent variety of phones, including the Nokia Lumia 635. Customers can get a Moto G 4G LTE for $25 after mail-in rebate.
The news comes just two days after the Federal Trade Commission fined another prepaid carrier, TracFone, $40 million for slowing down data speeds of customers nearing their monthly data speeds without telling them.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
