Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Deep learning startup Clarifai goes beyond image recognition, now offers video analysis Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn At the Deep Learning Summit in San Francisco on Jan. 30.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Clarifai , one startup with a service for recognizing things in images, today introduced a pretty nifty new capability. Now the startup can quickly point out the things that appear in videos.
Startups in this field and even major companies like Baidu and Google have been trying to show the advantages of their systems over others. Clarifai’s expansion into video marks an interesting development — one that could have potentially lead to some serious business value.
To perform this work, Clarifai employs a trendy type of artificial intelligence called deep learning.
 The process entails training systems called artificial neural networks on lots of information derived from audio, images, or other inputs, and then it presents the systems with new information and receiving inferences about it in response.
An advertiser, for instance, could get a good sense of when to drop an ad into a video with Clarifai’s technology, Matthew Zeiler, the startup’s founder and chief executive, told VentureBeat immediately following his presentation on the news at the Deep Learning Summit in San Francisco today.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! And indeed, Clarifai is already working with advertisers in this regard, Zeiler said.
In the demonstration Zeiler gave onstage, he showed different a chart below a video measuring the appearance and disappearance of “themes” being shown in video. Each theme got a line; as one “theme” — take bricks, for instance — became more prominent in the frames, the corresponding line on the chart went higher.
The system was able to understand a video spanning more than three minutes in just 10 seconds, Zeiler said.
Zeiler concluded his talk by saying Clarifai’s application programming interface is now open for anyone to use; it’s no longer invite only.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
