Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Twitch saves Nintendo’s Smash Bros. tournament with last-minute move to bigger venue Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn And you thought Super Smash Bros. for Wii U's 8-player mode was crowded.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Streaming-video site Twitch just showed off its sweet recovery skills.
Nintendo of America and fighting-game organization Apex are holding one of the biggest Smash Bros. tournaments ever this weekend, but it almost didn’t happen. Players gathered in a hotel in Secaucus, N.J., to battle it out in Super Smash Bros. for Wii U as well as Super Smash Bros. Melee for the GameCube, but one of the attendees accidentally opened a fire exit. That drew the attention of the local fire marshal, who declared the event a safety hazard and closed it down. That’s when Twitch stepped in to save the day.
The live video company helped arrange a new venue for Apex 2015.
“When we heard that Apex lost the venue, everyone scrambled to help to find another space and luckily the hustle paid off,” Twitch chief operating officer Kevin Lin told GamesBeat. “Apex is an awesome event, so we wanted to assist in any way possible to make sure it could still happen.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Apex 2015 is not only one of the biggest Smash tournaments in terms of attendance, it also has the biggest prize pool in the franchise’s competitive history with over $18,000 on the line. Sponsors include ScrewAttack, Play-Asia, Twitch, and Nintendo itself.
You can check out the action for yourself starting tomorrow morning right here.
 The event now starts tomorrow at the Garden State Convention Center. Apex announced that its staff will work tonight to set everything up.
WE WANT TO THANK EVERYONE FOR THEIR WELL WISHES AND SUPPORT. Shout outs to @twitch for assisting with the new venue! — Apex Series (@apex_series) January 30, 2015 Over 1,000 people are set to participate in the Melee tournament alone, which is a game that is around 15 years old.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
