Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Borderlands: The Pre-Sequel and more 2014 games return at half off Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Top 2014 titles are the theme of the day as select Triple-A titles from last year receives heavy discount from digital retailer GMG. Today they launched a “2014 Revisted” sale with discounts up to 75% off select AAA’s from last year. On top of that there’s a 20% off coupon code you can stack at checkout for additional savings.
Most of today’s offers will run through the weekend, but two in particular are 24 hours only with $24 Borderlands: The Pre-Sequel and Civilization: Beyond Earth.
The sale is not exclusive to these titles. Starting tomorrow and through Friday, February 26th new titles will go on sale daily with similar discounts. If you don’t see something you like below you can check here for any new deals that might develop in the coming days.
Use Coupon Code: 20PERO-FFDIGI-GAMESX Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! 24 Hour Deals • Borderlands: The Pre-Sequel (Steam) — $24 (list $60) • Sid Meier’s Civilization: Beyond Earth (Steam) — $24 (list $50) Weekend Deals • Stronghold Crusader 2 (Steam) — $26.80 (list $50) • Wolfenstein: The New Order (Steam) — $24 (list $60) • The Evil Within (Steam) — $24 (list $60) • Alien: Isolation (Steam) — $20 (list $50) • Train Simulator 2015 (Steam) — $16 (list $40) • Sleeping Dogs Definitive Edition (Steam) — $8.16 (list $30) • Borderlands 2: Game of the Year Edition (Steam) — $8 (list $40) • Lara Croft And The Temple Of Osiris (Steam) — $8 (list $20) • The Last Federation (Steam) — $8 (list $20) • Team Indie (Steam) — $5.20 (list $13) GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
