Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Twitter launches Vine for kids app on iOS Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Updated at 1:53 pm Pacific with information about how content will be selected.
Twitter today launched Vine Kids, a separate stand-alone video-sharing tool aimed at children.
In a blog post , Twitter said the new app is meant to be a place full of short videos appropriate for kids to watch.
“We’ve seen for ourselves — and heard from parents, siblings and others,” Vine’s Carolyn Penner wrote, “that kids love Vine. So, we built Vine Kids, a simple new app that gives young children a fun way to watch Vines.” Recently, Penner wrote, a Vine employee was talking about how much his daughter enjoyed watching the six-second videos. “He said he wished there was a separate app she could use to more easily watch posts that are appropriate for kids.” It turns out, Penner added, that this was during a Vine hack week. “So two folks teamed up and built exactly that.” It appears that the app’s content will be manually curated. “Through adorable animated characters,” its iTunes description reads, “kids can watch hand-selected videos that are appropriate for a young audience.” For now, Vine Kids is available only for iOS. No word on if or when it will be coming for Android.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
