Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts The ongoing Huawei saga, explained in brief By Charlotte Jee archive page A man walks past an electronics shop in China Associated Press If you’re feeling bewildered trying to keep up with the never-ending references to Huawei in the news, you’re not alone. Fear not—here’s a handy time line of everything that has happened so far this week. And remember, however bad your week has been, it probably hasn’t been as bad as Huawei’s.
(If you still want to learn more about how we got to this point, there’s a handy explainer on the wider context here.
 And here’s our own explainer of 5G and Huawei’s connection: “ The real reason America is scared of Huawei: internet-connected everything.
” 1. This week’s furor kicked off with the US’s announcement last Thursday that it had added Huawei to the “ Entity List ,” a blacklist of companies subject to export restrictions. The Justice Department claimed that Huawei has broken sanctions on Iran, among other things.
2. On Monday, Google announced it had blocked Huawei from using Android in any new phones. Huawei is the second biggest smartphone maker in the world. This would stop it from being able to embed Maps, Gmail, or YouTube in any of its new handsets.
3. Chipmakers Intel, Qualcomm, Xilinx, and Broadcom also said they would not sell components to Huawei.
4. On Tuesday the US said it would temporarily ease these restrictions, but they’ll still kick in from August. Huawei’s founder shot back that the US “underestimates” Huawei.
5. On Wednesday, UK chip designer ARM said it would have to sever ties with Huawei. This could be a far more serious blow than Google’s announcement, as Huawei's chips rely heavily on ARM’s designs. Two British carriers also said they would not offer Huawei phones to future 5G customers.
6. Latest: it looks as if Huawei could have enough inventory to weather the blacklist for months. And Trump sees it as a pawn in trying to achieve a trade deal with China. Even though Huawei is “very dangerous” in unspecified ways. All make sense? hide by Charlotte Jee Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 Zeyi Yang How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Deep Dive Computing What’s next for the world’s fastest supercomputers Scientists have begun running experiments on Frontier, the world’s first official exascale machine, while facilities worldwide build other machines to join the ranks.
By Sophia Chen archive page AI-powered 6G networks will reshape digital interactions The convergence of AI and communication technologies will create 6G networks that make hyperconnectivity and immersive experiences an everyday reality for consumers.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page The power of green computing Sustainable computing practices have the power to both infuse operational efficiencies and greatly reduce energy consumption, says Jen Huffstetler, chief product sustainability officer at Intel.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page How this Turing Award–winning researcher became a legendary academic advisor Theoretical computer scientist Manuel Blum has guided generations of graduate students into fruitful careers in the field.
By Sheon Han archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
