Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages 4 Super Bowl tech ads to see before kickoff Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The days leading up to the Super Bowl are always fraught with nervous excitement, not only over the game, but the advertisements that accompany it.
Super Bowl ads are a particularly special occasion for tech companies. After all, Apple’s “1984” commercial is credited with instigating the need to create epic advertisements around the big day. And website builder GoDaddy has continued the tradition by creating controversial advertisements , like this year’s “ Journey Home ,” which caused such a stir that it’s already been pulled.
In anticipation of tomorrow’s festivities (and fiascos), we put together a list of our favorite 2015 tech company Super Bowl ads — at least so far. We’re excited to see what else gets served up tomorrow. In the meantime, enjoy.
Mophie We dug the apocalyptic vibe of on-the-go mobile phone charger Mophie’s 2015 Super Bowl commercial.
Squarespace Website builder Squarespace will feature Jeff Bridges’ soothing voice for its upcoming ad. In addition to the Jeff Bridges ad, Squarespace also made an ad called “A Better Web” that’s worth checking out.
 Here’s a teaser of Jeff Bridges.
Wix.com Wix.com, also a website builder, tapped football player Brett Favre for its Super Bowl 2015 pitch. The resulting video, though weird, is charmingly funny.
T-Mobile Mobile carrier T-Mobile booked the girl whose butt broke the Internet to be the face of their “lost data” campaign. Take a look.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZTwzsV3I3OQ VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
