Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Feature The overlooked games of 2015 — Odallus: The Dark Call Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
“Retro” is no longer a selling point.
The market is now flooded with games that capitalize on nostalgia for the humble pixel, so you need to make something special to get noticed. Shovel Knight is perhaps the prime example of modern retro done right, but it also sold itself with its unique evolution of 1989 NES game DuckTales’ pogo mechanics , something retro game fans have been clamoring for decades now.
This is probably why not nearly enough people noticed Brazilian developer JoyMasher’s Odallus: The Dark Call when it came out earlier this year. To most people’s eyes, it looked like a competent Castlevania clone. But beyond that is an excellent game packed with quiet innovation and engaging levels that even rivals Shovel Knight’s quality.
What’s old is still new If you remember how stiffly the original Castlevania games controlled, then you’ll have some idea as to how playing Odallus feels. The combat has a more deliberate pace than most action games, and you really have to use your platforming wisely to avoid enemy attacks as you progress through the levels.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! And you’ll need to, because Odallus offers a surprisingly tough challenge that harkens back to the old days without replicating the more unfair difficulty of the era. Modern niceties like checkpoints help ease the pain, but you’re still left with a satisfying challenge thanks to nimble enemies and horrific Lovecraftian bosses.
Speaking of Lovecraft, Odallus creates an amazingly oppressive atmosphere within its limited framework, incorporating creepy music, a cryptic backstory, and twisted enemy design to set the stage for an unsettling theme not often seen in retro games.
Demonic relic But Odallus offers more than just an underutilized theme. In fact, like Shovel Knight, it brings back a mechanic that people have been wanting to see expanded upon for a long time, though admittedly a lot less flashy and obvious than pogoing.
Instead of simply sticking with a stage-by-stage structure, Odallus has secret exits in each of the four different initial levels that you can get to using abilities you find in other levels. Not quite full-blown metroidvania progression, it instead very much resembles Demon’s Crest, Capcom’s masterful oft-forgotten Super Nintendo Ghosts ‘n Goblins spinoff. Making this semi-nonlinear game stage-based cuts down on backtracking while encouraging you to revisit stages and find more secrets.
This segmented approach may seem strange to those not familiar with Demon’s Crest, but being so anachronistic actually works in Odallus’s favor, playing into the utter strangeness that casts a pall on the game at large.
That classic feel What elevates Odallus to being one of the best games released this year is how it feels, not just how it controls but also how it all comes together. The combat is appropriately calculated and methodical, the audiovisual presentation strikes an appropriately creepy tone, and the upgrades you get change the way you play through the levels. Everything feels just right.
And yet it manages to carve out its own identity thanks to the oddness in the margins. It’s in the structure, which feels positively strange because no one has cribbed it since the SNES days. It’s in the lonely world, the slightly off-putting monsters, and the mysterious, eldritch environments you visit. It’s even in the weird vertical status bars that show your health and inventory.
It’s not enough to be “retro” anymore, but it’s also not enough to just be “very good” either. You have to do something obvious and flashy to gain traction in people’s minds. Odallus: The Dark Call emphatically does not, looking like the ultimate also-ran. But it is without a doubt one of the best releases of 2015. Odallus feels slightly off in many of its dark corners, and that’s exactly what makes it special.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
