Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Feature GamesBeat community manager Mike Minotti’s top 10 games of 2015 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn So beautiful.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
GamesBeat already picked its games of the year , but now it’s my turn.
I like to think I have pretty varied tastes. I’m down for anything from hardcore Japanese role-playing games to mindless shooters. And this year, I got to play a lot games. A lot of them were good, and the 10 below were my favorites from 2015.
10. Star Wars: Battlefront Above: Bad company.
Star Wars: Battlefront is far from a perfect game. It lacks content , and the balancing can feel like a mess. Still, I always have a great time when I’m playing it with my friends, and it’s one of the prettiest games I’ve seen on consoles. Plus, it has that whole Star Wars thing going for it.
9. Rocket League Above: Rocket League was the summer’s surprise gaming hit.
Rocket League sounds like it should be nothing more than a novelty, but this simple idea — RC cars playing soccer — never gets old. It uses familiar concepts from sports and driving games, but it manages to feel like something completely different.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! 8. Fallout 4 Fallout 4 gave me exactly what I wanted: another postapocalyptic world to explore and discover. Its improvements to the series’ combat made fighting in the wasteland more enjoyable than it was in its predecessors. However, the actual role-playing aspect seemed to take a step back, as I felt like I was playing a specific character in this world rather than a projection of myself.
7. Rise of the Tomb Raider Above: Bring a coat.
Rise of the Tomb Raider was a great blend of other games. It took the third-person shooting and climbing from Uncharted and combined it with the open-world resource hunting and crafting of Far Cry. Of course, so did its predecessor, but Rise of the Tomb Raider stands out as the better game thanks its more interesting (and less depressing) story.
6. Super Mario Maker Above: An endless Mario game probably was a really good idea, Nintendo.
This is the new standard for level-creation tools.
Super Mario Maker can have anyone making their own stages in minutes, and you can create some truly inventive and crazy levels if you put in the time. It’s also great fun to just go online and check out platforming masterpieces from across the world.
5. Destiny: The Taken King Above: Chilling in the tower.
I thought I was done with Destiny, but The Taken King really redeemed this troubled online shooter. Missions felt more exciting, characters actually acted like … well, characters (instead of deadpan exposition machines), and leveling up was no longer a convoluted mess. I’m now excited for Destiny’s future.
4. Splatoon Above: Splatoon was a big hit for Nintendo this year.
I thought Splatoon would be a cute little experiment from Nintendo, but it ended up being one of my favorite games of the year. The multiplayer mode gives us a needed (and colorful) alternative to the team deathmatch variants that plague the industry, while the single-player campaign was surprisingly fully featured and engaging.
3. Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain Above: Not a bad impression of The Lion King.
While its story didn’t really go anywhere, The Phantom Pain was an incredibly impressive game. It’s vast options for weapons, equipment, and support buddies allowed for the largest amount of creativity I’ve seen in an open-world game, and it managed to always look fantastic even when the screen became littered with enemies and explosions.
2. The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt Above: Soup’s on.
I hadn’t really played this series before, but I’m thankful I jumped in for The Wild Hunt.
 This took the open-world RPG to new heights, and I don’t think any other single-player game can match it in terms of content. And it’s not just bland, storyless content, a problem I had with Dragon Age: Inquisition from last year. Every side-mission feels just as important as the main quest.
1. Ori and the Blind Forest Above: Ori is gorgeous.
I love games like Super Metroid and Castlevania: Symphony of the Night that give me large 2D world to explore and adventure across, and Ori and the Blind Forest belongs in the same company as those classics. First off, it’s the prettiest 2D game I’ve ever seen. Seriously, just look at that art. It’s colorful and gorgeous, and it looks like a beautiful, animated masterpiece in motion.
The game itself, however, plays just as beautifully. The platforming is precise, and Ori’s arsenal of maneuvers allow him to zip, climb, and jump across the forest like an acrobat. More than any other game from this fantastic year, Ori is one I plan to play again and again.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
