Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Canadian subdivision uses World of Warcraft cities for real-world street names Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn You can finally move to Silvermoon in real life ... sort of.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
You probably live on an Pine street or a lane named after some sort of plant or tree. But if you move to Canada, you could live on a street named after something much nerdier.
A subdivision in a suburb of Canada has several streets named after places from World of Warcraft. You can find this little town on Google Maps (via Reddit ). When we look, we can find streets named Silvermoon, Stormwind, Winterspring, Raven’s Wood, and Ashenvale. That seems like too many in one place to be a coincidence.
Check it out: If you’re wondering how this happens, typically a developer — the company that builds out subdivisions — you get to name streets. In this situation, it’s likely that the developer or someone working for it was a big fan of World of Warcraft. But we’ve also reached out to the City of Ottawa to ask for more information.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
