Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages On Twitter, twice as many people are talking about Black Friday this year Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Despite thinning crowds on what’s perhaps the biggest holiday shopping day of the year , twice as many people are talking about Black Friday on Twitter this year.
The data comes from a new report by social marketing and analytics platform Spredfast , which said it logged 2,013,943 conversations referencing “Black Friday” this year, compared to 996,306 Twitter conversations last year.
One possible explanation for the increase could be due to “Black Friday” becoming less of a term for the huge discounted sales day following Thanksgiving and more of a topic of conversation.
For example, I’ve noticed friends who normally wouldn’t mention Black Friday on social media did so this year in protest — because they had other friends and acquaintances who had to give up their holiday yesterday to prep for the crazy sales “holiday” today.
But regardless of why more people are talking about Black Friday, Spredfast did manage to collect some other interesting stats about the conversations during the holiday sales day. One instance Spredfast determined is that women are more likely to discuss Black Friday on Facebook (60 percent) than men. Also, the 25-to-34 age demographic makes up the bulk of Black Friday social conversations (36 percent), followed by the 35-to-44 age demographic (25 percent) and the 18-to 24-age demographic (15 percent).
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
