Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Watch a George Lucas parody of the ‘Star Wars: Episode VII – The Force Awakens’ trailer Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
On November 28, the “Star Wars: Episode VII – The Force Awakens” trailer was released on iTunes and then YouTube.
 On November 29, the parodies started to trickle in.
Introducing the George Lucas Special Edition: For the sake of comparison, here is the original: Hit play at the same time, or with a few seconds’ delay for extra laughs. The CGI additions are just perfect.
If parodies tickle your fancy, you’ll also want to watch the Lego version.
 If that’s still not enough for you, check out this YouTube search for some more.
“Star Wars: Episode VII – The Force Awakens” is being directed by J.J. Abrams and is scheduled for release in December 2015.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
