Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Amazon unveils robot-driven warehouse for handling holiday orders Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Amazon's Warehouse with Kiva robots Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Amazon revealed its latest-generation warehouse in time for Cyber Monday. The warehouse uses robotics, vision systems, and other high-end tech to speed up deliveries for its ecommerce customers.
Seattle-based Amazon said its eighth-generation fulfillment center uses 20 years’ worth of software and mechanical innovations. The company plans to build 10 warehouses based on the technology that it has developed.
“The Amazon fulfillment teams are dedicated to innovating in our fulfillment centers to increase speed of delivery while enabling greater local selection at lower costs for our customers. The advancements in our latest fulfillment centers hit all three of these customer desires while continuing to provide a work environment that is great for employees,” said Dave Clark, Amazon’s senior vice president of worldwide operations and customer service, in a statement.
Amazon uses Kiva robots in the new center, and it already has 15,000 such robots operating in the U.S. The new center also uses Robo-Stow, one of Earth’s largest robotic arms, for moving large quantities of inventory for customer order fulfillment. The vision systems enable the receipt and unloading of an entire trailer of inventory in as little as 30 minutes instead of hours.
The warehouse also has graphically oriented computer systems for employees to use while fulfilling orders for customers. Amazon recently said it will hire 80,000 seasonal employees to fulfill customer orders this holiday, a 14 percent increase over last year. The company expects that thousands of those employees will stay on in regular, full-time roles.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
