Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages GamesBeat weekly roundup: Warcraft turns 10, report cards, and apologies Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn World of Warcraft is the MMO king.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
This time, we’ve created an alternative gift guide, Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire are off to a strong start, and we reviewed Tales from the Borderlands: Episode 1.
Happy reading and have a good weekend! Pieces of flair and opinions The DeanBeat: Thankful for gaming’s bubble and those who warn about it No guns, no saving the world, no nonsense: Why Harvest Moon’s style is better when it’s indie The Wii U 2014 report card: Games trump innovation GamesBeat’s 2014 ‘Naughty and Nice’ alternative holiday gift guide 10 games that couldn’t kill World of Warcraft The Xbox One report card: Microsoft strikes back World of Warcraft’s Pepe the bird goes from lark to phenomenon Blizzard’s, players’ top 10 World of Warcraft quests offer adventure, nudity, and tears Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare by the (big) numbers Here’s how 8 of 2014’s biggest games look in LittleBigPlanet Glitched Super Smash Bros. for Wii U characters are terrifying Above: Nintendo’s on a sales roll with Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire for 3DS.
News Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Otoy takes 3D graphics and virtual reality app development into the cloud Xbox One Japan boss stands down as weekly sales drop to just 776 $330 PlayStation 4, Xbox One shows up before Black Friday on eBay (Updated) Sony teases gamers with PlayStation Experience video Ubisoft stops selling Assassin’s Creed: Unity season pass — gives free game to anyone who bought it Twitch teams up with Teespring to help broadcast partners get into merchandising Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire sold 3 million copies in just three days Tencent agrees to publish Orcs Must Die Unchained MOBA in China Total War Attila receives pre-order incentives Trion Worlds releases its big Defiance Aftermath update as season 2 closes Elegant Star Wars Minecraft skins out now for a more civilized Xbox One and Xbox 360 Ubisoft doesn’t want early reviews of The Crew because it can’t re-create online experience before launch Legendary Nintendo composer arranged a new Super Mario Bros. medley for ‘Dancing with the Stars’ Sony will refund consumers over ‘deceiving’ PlayStation Vita ads Super Smash Bros. for Wii U is the system’s fastest-selling game Studio head apologizes for woeful Halo: The Master Chief Collection launch: ‘We will make this right with our fans’ Live Rounds will offer video chat for up to five players in PC online games Nintendo pulls 3DS game from eShop after hackers exploit it to run homebrew software GameStop exec voices concern over the dipping price of digital games Grand Theft Auto V breaks all-time software-sales record in the U.K.
X-Men and The Lord of the Rings stars join Xbox One exclusive Quantum Break Cloud gaming could reach a turning point in 2015, analyst says Mobile and social 5th Planet Games lays off staff as it transitions to mobile games King celebrates official launch of Candy Crush Soda Saga with antics in New York and London Vainglory featured in commercial with Justin Timberlake and Jimmy Fallon … sort of JumpStart’s Penguins of Madagascar: Dibble Dash mobile launch signifies shift for ed-game studio South Korea’s Gamevil expands in mobile gaming as it acquires Waplesoft iPhone 6 drives huge downloads in October, but marketing costs finally fall slightly Apple, Bono, and Kim Kardashian team up with app developers for AIDS campaign Above: Fury marks a crossover between Wargaming and Sony Pictures.
Previews and interviews Wargaming chief has built a World of Tanks empire — and he’s not done yet (interview) How India’s Reliance Games is using movies to become a global mobile game publisher (interview) Reviews and impressions ‘Dimensions’ is more than just Geometry Wars 3’s subtitle We play Geometry Wars 3: Dimensions so you don’t have to (but you should) DayZ in 2015: The PlayStation 4 prototype, animal companions, and more Things are looking black for ‘Halo: Nightfall’ Relive the intense Battle of the Bulge in Company of Heroes 2: Ardennes Assault Tales from the Borderlands: Episode 1 delivers a hilarious knockout blow without relying on the usual fighters (review) GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
