Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Cream Finance raises $6.2M for its data-driven consumer lending in Eastern Europe Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Cream Finance , a European company that provides short-term consumer loans, has raised $6.2 million (€5 million) in new funding from Flint Capital.
Cream Finance is the parent company of CreditOn, LendOn, and CreditOne, consumer credit services that operate in Latvia, Czech Republic, Poland, Georgia, and Slovakia. Cream Finance uses data to quickly evaluate, score, and make short-term loans to its customers. It also uses technology to automate as much of its process as possible to speed up its lending to consumers.
According to Cream Finance’s website, the average loan it disburses is for €142.8 ($114) at an average term length of 25.2 days. Moreover, while 31 percent of first-time loans are approved, 88 percent of subsequent loans are approved. The 25-to-33-year-old demographic is Cream Finance’s biggest customer group (31 percent), followed by the 25 and under (22 percent).
The company plans to use its new funding in part to expand to Southeast Asia. Cream Finance was founded in 2010.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
