Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages More action, less timesink — MOBA Tome: Immortal Arena hits Steam on Nov. 21 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Way better than all those mortal arenas.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
We’ve got another one.
A new multiplayer battle arena (MOBA) game launches on the Steam digital distribution network on Nov. 21.
Tome: Immortal Arena is a free-to-play take on the genre that emphasizes action over some of its competitors’ deeper mechanics (like last-hitting enemies and returning to your base to heal). Other MOBAs, like League of Legends and Dota 2, are incredibly popular, money-making machines.
Tome comes from developer Kixeye, a studio with employees who worked on notable PC hits like Command & Conquer, World of Warcraft, and even League of Legends.
League of Legends is the most popular MOBA (and one of the most popular games in general) right now. While a match of LoL can last anywhere from 30 minutes to an hour, a round of Tome will only up to 20 minutes.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Free-to-play MOBAs like LoL make a ton of money , which explains why so many other developers and publishers are entering the market.
 LoL and its biggest competitor, Valve’s Dota 2, are well established in the PC gaming and competitive scenes, which makes it difficult for new MOBAs to compete.
Still, one could make a decent amount of money even with a fraction of LoL’s audience. Trying to target a more casual audience then those who play LoL and Dota 2 is one way to differentiate your game.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
