Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Eternal Darkness spiritual successor may still happen at Denis Dyack's new company Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Shadow of the Eternals: a game you'll probably never play.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Long-time game developer Denis Dyack is back with a new startup that announced itself today, and it is going to pick up the development torch for Shadow of the Eternals.
Dyack is now chief creative officer at Quantum Entanglement Entertainment, which is a media company that is making television, games, and film in Toronto. Dyack is partnering with chief executive officer Jonathan M. Soon-Shiong, who is a broadcast executive with experience in Canada’s media industry; and producer Paul Rapovski, who worked on the Canadian supernatural drama Lost Girl.
 The idea behind Quantum Entanglement is to bring together the various strengths of its leadership to release creative projects built from the beginning to work across various mediums. And one of the first projects the company is going to work on is the Shadow of the Eternals games that Dyack started at Precursor.
“QE2 is positioned to capitalize on the convergence of traditional and new media by creating content and IP that integrates cohesively between channels,” Soon-Shiong said in a statement. “The backgrounds of the cofounders are highly complementary and fit well with convergence of video games with TV and film. Each cofounder is integral in the execution of our strategy and creative decisions will be made that benefit the IP overall and not just a single platform.” Shadow of the Eternals is a psychological horror game that Dyack wants to make in the style of the beloved GameCube title Eternal Darkness that he released while at developer Silicon Knights. Quantum Entanglement will use this game to also spin off potential film and television projects simultaneously.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! “Quantum Entanglement Entertainment Inc. is a natural evolution for myself and something I believe is the future of entertainment,” said Dyack. “Technology has pushed the entertainment medium beyond the event horizon, and the opportunities are unprecedented. Together we have the expertise to make an incredible impact on the marketplace with diverse and specialized platforms for original IP.” Shadow of the Eternals began life as a crowdfunding project at Precursor. In May 2013, the studio started raising funds to build the game with a goal of $1.5 million.
 After two days of asking fans to contribute, it was clear that Precursor wouldn’t reach the amount it was looking for. This led to the studio trying to reboot its campaign a number of times before giving up in September. It didn’t help that one of the key team members of Precursor was indicted on charges of uploading child pornography.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
