Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Blizzard wants World of Warcraft to go for another 10 years Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn World of Warcraft's expansion, Warlords of Draenor.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
World of Warcraft is about to turn 10. And its developer wouldn’t mind seeing it last another decade.
The insanely popular massively multiplayer online role-playing game originally came out back on Nov. 23, 2004. While most games can’t manage relevancy less than a year after release, WoW has stayed strong thanks to millions of subscribers and a constant stream of new content (its fifth expansion, The Warlords of Draenor, comes out Nov. 13). So, how much longer can it keep going? At least 10 more years, according to developer Blizzard.
“I definitely can’t tell you what our 20th anniversary is going to be. I can tell you there is definitely going to be one,” World of Warcraft lead game designer Ion Hazzikostas said in an interview with Cnet. “I have no doubt saying that. We’re definitely planning into the future, talking about what the next expansion is going to be, and what the one after that is going to be, just in terms of big picture storylines, how can we start setting things up now, where do we want the game to go. Ultimately it’s all one step at a time.” World of Warcraft is still popular, but it’s clearly peaked. The game had 12 million paying members in 2012, but that number is currently at 7.4 million.
 Still, that is actually an increase from 6.8 million in the previous quarter. Players are likely coming back in anticipation for the expansion.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Regardless, even 6.8 million would still be a ton of subscribers. It’s a number that other MMOs can only dream of. If Blizzard can keep fans happy with new content, it just may have a shot of getting World of Warcraft to its 20th anniversary.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
