Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Bethesda officially cancels Prey 2, one of the coolest games I ever saw at E3 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Shot through the heart, and you're to blame.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
This one hurts.
Publisher Bethesda has revealed that Prey 2, the sequel to the 2006 sci-fi first-person shooter, is officially cancelled.
CNET discovered this via Bethesda vice president Pete Hines at the ongoing PAX Australia convention.
“It wasn’t up to our quality standard, and we decided to cancel it,” Hines told CNET. “It’s no longer in development. That wasn’t an easy decision, but it’s one that won’t surprise many folks given that we hadn’t been talking about it.” Bethesda originally unveiled Prey 2 at E3 2011. While the original was a pretty standard shooter, the sequel was an open-world game that focused on bounty hunting. The trailer and hands-off demo had a lot of people buzzing. Unfortunately, that was pretty much the last good look we ever got at the game. Slowly, Bethesda talked less and less about it, sometimes only to say that work was completely restarted. Now, Prey 2 is officially done.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Which kind of sucks. I was at E3 2011, and Prey 2 was the coolest thing I saw at that show (keep in mind that Bethesda’s Skyrim was also on display right next door). Sure, my preview of it was hands-off, so maybe everything I saw was just smoke and mirrors, but the demo showed off a beautiful world and interesting characters who would react to their surroundings (for instance, the tone in one alien’s voice completely changed when he was suddenly staring at a drawn gun).
Sadly, we’ll never get to play Prey 2 now. It joins the likes of Sonic X-treme and StarFox 2 in the sad halls of games that almost were.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
