Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Abacus nabs $3.5M to make expense reporting as easy as snapping and sharing a photo Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Expense reporting is a huge pain in everyone’s working behind. Just this morning, my colleagues were groaning because of today’s deadline to get theirs in for the month.
So it’s at least reassuring to know that a host of companies are working on making it more pleasant. One of these, Abacus , a Y Combinator-backed startup, is reimagining expense reporting as a mobile-first tool, and the company announced today on its blog that it has raised $3.5 million in new funding.
Call me a “digital native” if you want, but Abacus reminds me of Instagram — a version of Instagram that handles my expense reporting. You take photos of your receipts and add the amount, just as you would simply add a caption to your photo. The app geo-tags your entries (you know, like tagging that photo with the dive bar where you took it). Your manager can even send you a private message regarding a particular entry (think Twitter’s direct messages).
But moving beyond the Instagram analogy, you can link your credit cards to your app, which will immediately input your purchase into your expense account. You can also get reimbursed the next day, straight into your bank account.
Managers aren’t left out, either. Abacus gives them mobile and desktop tools to quickly get in touch with employees and get clear reports of their expenses.
Abacus currently charges $5 per user, per month, but it’s free for companies that process fewer than 10 expense reports per month.
Of course, there are already a bevy of other companies that provide expense reporting tools, such as Expensify and Concur, so Abacus will have to work hard to get into the hands of employees and the hearts of managers. But it already has Pinterest, Foursquare, Coinbase, Betterment, and more than 150 additional customers, according to its blog.
Bessemer Venture Partners and General Catalyst led this round, with additional participation from Bloodstone Ventures, CrunchFund, FundersClub, Google Ventures, Homebrew, Sherpalo, Patrick and John Collison of Stripe, Josh Reeves of ZenPayroll, Jeff Epstein, former CFO of Oracle and DoubleClick, Naval Ravikant of AngelList, Andrew Kortina and Iqram Magdon-Ismail of Venmo, Adam Erlebacher of Simple, Sumon Sadhu of Quid, Nas and Paul Buchheit of Y Combinator.
Abacus was founded in 2013 by Omar Qari, Ted Power, and Joshua Halickman, and is based in New York City.
[vimeo 109482334 w=500 h=281] VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
