Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft launches redesigned Outlook for Mac, announces new Office for Mac coming next year Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Microsoft today launched a new version of Outlook for Mac, available to Office 365 customers. At the same time, the company announced its plans to release a new Office for Mac version next year.
The release comes just a few days after Outlook for Mac screenshots leaked on October 27 over at Chinese site cnBeta.
 That was Monday. On Friday, Microsoft pulled the trigger.
Outlook for Mac The new Outlook for Mac is available today to Office 365 commercial customers, as well as to Office 365 Home, Office 365 Personal, and Office 365 University subscribers. The former group can get the new application by accessing their Office 365 Portal (Gear icon => Office 365 Settings => Software => Outlook for Mac icon) or visiting the Software page.
 The latter group can get it by going to their My Account page.
Here are the new Office for Mac features Microsoft wants to highlight: Better performance and reliability as a result of a new threading model and database improvements A new modern user interface with improved scrolling and agility when switching between Ribbon tabs Online archive support for searching Exchange (online or on-premises) archived mail Master Category List support and enhancements delivering access to category lists (name and color) and sync between Mac, Windows, and OWA clients Office 365 push email support for real-time email delivery Faster first-run and email download experience with improved Exchange Web Services syncing The most obvious difference compared to Outlook 2011 will be the second point: a complete redesign. Microsoft says the goal of this release is to provide OS X users with a “more familiar and consistent experience” that matches Outlook for Windows, the Outlook on the Web, as well as the Outlook Web App (OWA) for Android and iOS devices.
Office for Mac While the new Outlook for Mac was clearly ready to be pushed out early, Microsoft is still working on the other four main Office for Mac applications: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote. The company is sharing today that a public beta for the next version of Office for Mac will be released in the first half of 2015. The final release will arrive in the second half of 2015.
Microsoft is promising Office 365 commercial and consumer subscribers will get the next version at no additional cost. At the same time, the company plans to release a standalone version: a perpetual license of Office for Mac will arrive “in the same timeframe.” Mac owners who use Microsoft products may be scratching their heads right now. Yes, the Microsoft Office team is changing the timing of its OS X releases.
Historically, a new version of Office for Mac arrived approximately six to eight months after a new Office for Windows release. Following the arrival of Office 365, however, Microsoft said it “made the conscious decision to prioritize mobile first and cloud first scenarios.” In other words, Office has been getting frequent updates for Android, iOS, and Windows Phone. Microsoft wants to pick up the pace for Mac as well.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
