Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages You can now connect to Facebook despite Internet censorship via new Tor link Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn In an early morning blog post , no doubt targeted at overseas users, Facebook said it is experimenting with providing direct access to it social network over the Tor network.
Tor is a secure network that allows users to surf the web mostly anonymously and prevents websites from tracking their activity. For this reason, Tor is able to provide access to websites that might be blocked in certain regions. Facebook has been blocked in China and Iran , for example, where citizens live under strict censorship.
Traditionally accessing Facebook via Tor can be difficult. With this new project, Facebook lets Tor users connect directly with Facebook’s Core WWW Infrastructure through a Tor-specific link [ https://facebookcorewwwi.onion/ ]. Communication on Facebook via the Tor network will be end-to-end encrypted, and users will be directly connected to a Facebook datacenter from their browsers.
Last year, Facebook rolled out HTTPS across all of its services. It now seems the company is keen to embrace more nuanced security technology, like Tor.
The blog post notes that Runa Sandvik, a security researcher and Tor contributor, was involved with this project, along with University of College London information security research fellow Dr. Steven J Murdoch. Both are well-respected figures in the security community.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
