Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages BlackBerry updates BBM with timed messages and message retraction, unveils plans for a paid subscription Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
BlackBerry today released a new version of BBM, adding timed messages, message retraction, and HD picture transfer, among other features. If you don’t see the update just yet, note that the company says it “may take 24 hours or more” for it to appear in your app store “depending on your mobile platform and region.” First up, you now have a lot more control over your communications. Before you send messages and pictures, you can set how long your contacts have access to them in a chat. After you send messages and pictures, you can also “retract” them from your BBM chat.
BlackBerry is pushing these two additions as new privacy features that let users “take control over the messages and content that they share, so they can communicate with more discretion and freedom than ever before.” The company first showed off the new additions to messages two weeks ago in a beta release; testers apparently have been giving “incredible” feedback, saying that controlling their messages adds “a whole new dynamic to BBM.” Nevertheless, for both of these features, BlackBerry did offer an obvious warning to its users: While these features are designed to remove the message or picture [from] the recipient’s BBM chat view, they do not prevent recipients from capturing an image of the content by taking a screenshot or using an image capture device. Retracting a message after it has been read by the recipient will remove the message from the BBM chat view but will not affect copies of the message that the recipient may have made prior to the message being retracted.
Privacy additions aside, BBM has received a new sticker picker that the company claims is faster for adding stickers to your chats, the ability to transfer HD pictures so you can send higher quality versions of your photos, and an option to see what music your contacts are listening to in BBM Feeds. None of these are as significant as the privacy additions, but they do round out this release as a major one.
Paid subscription For some time now, BlackBerry has been talking about monetizing BBM. The company has started offering stickers, noting that many messaging applications, particularly in Asia, have successfully built new revenue streams by opening up a sticker shop for their users to peruse.
Today, BlackBerry revealed that it plans to offer a paid subscription for premium features. It didn’t share many details, but the company did say that timed messages and message retraction will be included in the package.
The features will be available for free and without restrictions over the next three months. In other words, we can expect a BBM subscription to arrive within the next quarter.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
