Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Feds charge four men for stealing $100 million in Xbox code and U.S. military secrets Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The feds today charged four men with hacking and stealing secrets worth more than $100 million from Microsoft and the U.S. Army.
The justice department said Microsoft, which produces the Xbox One gaming system, the U.S. Army, and leading game manufacturers had their systems hacked and intellectual property boosted by an international group of hackers who vacuumed $100 million worth of intellectual property from their servers.
In the case of the U.S. Army theft, hackers stole secrets related to training technology for the advanced Apache attack helicopter and source code for the games Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 and Gears of War 3, among other titles produced by outside developers, the feds said. The case began in April but the indictment was unsealed today.
According to release outlining the case, which you can read here : Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! “Nathan Leroux, 20, of Bowie, Maryland; Sanadodeh Nesheiwat, 28, of Washington, New Jersey; David Pokora, 22, of Mississauga, Ontario, Canada; and Austin Alcala, 18, of McCordsville, Indiana, were charged in an 18-count superseding indictment returned by a federal grand jury in the District of Delaware on April 23, 2014, and unsealed earlier today.
The charges in the indictment include conspiracies to commit computer fraud, copyright infringement, wire fraud, mail fraud, identity theft and theft of trade secrets. The defendants are also charged with individual counts of aggravated identity theft, unauthorized computer access, copyright infringement and wire fraud.” The feds said that from “January 2011 to March 2014, the four men and others located in the United States and abroad hacked into the computer networks of Microsoft Corporation, Epic Games Inc., Valve Corporation, Zombie Studios, and the U.S. Army. The defendants and others allegedly obtained access to the victims’ computer networks through methods including SQL injection and stolen usernames and passwords of company employees and their software development partners.” The hackers successfully penetrated the firewalls of their victims, and once inside, boosted source code, trade secrets, and financial data.
The feds said the above-mentioned hackers were in it for profit and sold the information to as yet unnamed third parties. The feds are still tallying the damage but said it could amount to over $200 million in losses.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
