Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Pebble drops prices as smartwatch competition grows, adds new health and fitness features Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Pebble may be feeling the heat of growing competition in the smartwatch space with the growing number of entries from heavyweights like Samsung and Apple.
The original Pebble price is dropping from $150 to $99, and the Pebble Steel is dropping from $249 to $199.
On the health and fitness front, Pebble made a few small announcements. A new Jawbone fitness app is now available on Pebble, for one.
The Misfit app for Pebble has been updated to enable continuous, round-the-clock activity tracking and sleep monitoring.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Swim.com is the first watch app that allows swimmers to measure distance, pace, times, strokes, and efficiency while swimming, then automatically sync this data with their phone and the cloud when they get back to the locker room.
Pebbles are available at Best Buy, Amazon, and AT&T now, but will soon become available at a few other retailers, including Fry’s, Sam’s Club, and Sprint stores, the company says.
Pebble also says it is opening its applications programming interface (API) to developers so that they can develop their own apps using the Pebble’s accelerometer, sensors, and other features.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
