Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages LinkedIn's latest update adds Pulse news integration and a revamped design Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Pulse, the news reader service LinkedIn acquired last year, is now getting integrated more closely into the professional social network, the company announced today.
Unlike many competing news services, Pulse has always focused on delivering you customized news. You pick the sources you’d like to hear from, as well as a few topics, and Pulse streamlines all the new articles and content into an easy to digest format. The new LinkedIn design builds on this by making the user interface a bit cleaner and enhancing little things like making scrolling down the page more smooth. Also worth noting is that Pulse will now be integrated into the custom LinkedIn desktop news feed so that more people will view the social network as a destination site for keeping up with the day’s news or sharing news with the community.
“Already, we’re seeing increased sharing, more views on each post, and more people writing as a result,” said Pulse founder Akshay Kothari in a blog post about the update.
The new update also puts more emphasis on contributing to Pulse and making it easier for people to write something that can be shared with the community. Authors can track analytics on their post, while readers can find more of that particular author’s older posts at the bottom of an article page on mobile devices.
The new LinkedIn update is available now for desktops, iOS , and Android.
 Do you like this new design? Let us know in the comments below.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
