Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages PS4 is getting the physical version of Minecraft a month before Xbox One Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Microsoft is already reaping benefits from Minecraft.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Even Microsoft games are appearing on the PlayStation 4 first.
Microsoft revealed today that it is releasing Minecraft: Xbox One Edition on disc. That is strange because Sony confirmed that the PlayStation 4 is getting a disc version of Minecraft earlier this month, and it will debut on Sony’s system Oct. 7. That may not seem weird, but remember that on Sept. 15, Microsoft revealed a deal to purchase Minecraft and developer Mojang for $2.5 billion in cash. Despite spending that money, Sony’s system is getting the Minecraft disc a month before Microsoft’s. Minecraft: Xbox One Edition will launch at retail on Nov. 18 for $20.
While Minecraft first debuted on PC in 2009 and on Xbox 360 in 2012, its popularity hasn’t waned. In fact, the physical Xbox 360 version, which didn’t debut until 2013, was the ninth best-selling new physical game at U.S. retailers last year. A physical version on the new systems is likely going to sell well also.
This announcement comes just weeks after Minecraft launched digitally on Xbox One (Sept. 5) and PlayStation 4 (Sept. 4) through their respective digital stores, and it’s not surprising that the physical version for those systems is coming out in time for the gift-giving holidays.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Minecraft is an incredibly strange property now that Microsoft has taken over ownership. It’s possible that the PS4 game will become the first Sony system release to feature a “Microsoft Studios” logo on the box. Regardless of how weird it all seems, Microsoft did promise to continue supporting Minecraft on all other platforms, and that includes Sony’s.
We’ve reached out to the two companies just to ensure that Minecraft: PS4 Edition is still coming out on disc in October, and we’ll update this story with any new information.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
