Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored Last chance on Shadow of Mordor's preorder deals (updated for release) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
This sponsored post is produced by Dealzon.
Update 10/3/14: Shadow of Mordor is now released. You can get the game for up to 27% off, details below.
Tomorrow brings about the release of Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor and the game’s PR/hype meter is now well past the stratosphere (if you get a nickel for each article that begins with “One does not simply…” you’ll probably be able to buy this game plus the announced Season Pass twice over).
PC gamers that ate up the strong reviews of the game thus far have until tomorrow around 11 a.m ET to grab the discount available on the Shadow of Mordor preorder, which includes the “Dark Ranger” DLC.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The best Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor preorder deals: • Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor (PC Steam) — $36.50 • Use 27% Off Coupon: DEALZO-NMORDO-R27OFF • Shadow of Mordor: Season Pass — $18.75 • Shadow of Mordor: Premium — $56.24 • Use 25% Off Coupon: P65PW6-F9B91D-TW2AG2 • These coupons expires soon on Friday at 11 a.m. ET.
Note: the Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor: “Premium” Edition simply bundles in the Season Pass along with the base game. There’s no major price difference buying it bundled or separately, so take note of that. The discounts above are also valid in the UK/EU, where prices will be dropped by their respective regional pricing.
Console gamers have two options in terms of a preorder deal: • $10 Rewards Certificate for Best Buy preorders.
• $25 eGift Card for Dell.com preorders.
For the $25 Dell eGift promo card offer, you’ll receive it via email in 10-20 days after purchase, good towards anything on Dell.com at a future date. Take note that it carries with it a 90 days expiration date, so if you won’t buy anything in the next 3 or so months on Dell (e.g. another game), we’ll advise you to pass on this offer.
Conversely the Best Buy $10 rewards certificate is straight forward and will post to your account about 15 days from time of pickup/shipment and carries no expiration date to them.
Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor thus far is winning rave reviews from critics, even though it was initially panned by the gaming public as a Batman Arkham clone (along with complaints from the Lord of the Ring fans on how the lore were butchered). Time will tell if the game will excel in sales despite these potential issues.
Sponsored posts are content that has been produced by a company, which is either paying for the post or has a business relationship with VentureBeat, and they’re always clearly marked. The content of news stories produced by our editorial team is never influenced by advertisers or sponsors in any way. For more information, contact sales@venturebeat.com.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
