Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Developer DICE is still making upgrades to Battlefield 4 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Gamers are having a tough time getting online with Xbox Live.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The modern-military shooter Battlefield 4 has a reputation as a broken game, but developer DICE claims it now works better than any other entry in the series.
Since releasing Battlefield 4 in October, DICE has worked to fix and improve the first-person shooter. This continues today with a free fall update that introduces some major changes. This is one of Electronic Arts’ most important franchises, and regular patches is one way that the publisher is trying to prove fans can trust the series going forward.
Changes in the fall update for BF4 include changes to how characters move as well as improvements to the “netcode” that connects players online.
“[The ‘netcode’] is now the fastest in the franchise’s history,” reads the Battlefield blog.
 “The delay is now lower than ever, and we’re also looking to improve hit detection.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! When it comes to character traversal, DICE is taking a step back, but fans will likely consider that a good thing.
“Player movement has been improved to more closely match that of Battlefield 3, while still maintaining the animation fidelity of Battlefield 4,” the blog continues.
Other new additions include reduced visual recoil on a number of guns. This means you’ll see less shake when firing weapons with medium- and close-range sights.
DICE also claims it is streamlining the in-game user interface. It is giving players more options to “tinker” with what they see when playing the shooter. New toggles include the ability to turn off icons that indicate teammates when looking down the sights of a weapon.
The last big change is the inclusion of a Classic Mode. This introduces a more “hardcore” experience where players can only spawn on their squad leader. This requires more team work, and the studio built it specifically for longtime fans coming from Battlefield 2 and Battlefield 3.
That is a lot of stuff to include in a free update for a game that came out in October last year. But fans still have doubts that Battlefield: Hardline, the next release in the franchise, will work when it debuts. Just yesterday, GamesBeat reported that developer Visceral Games, which is making Hardline, is out in the public promising that the new game (due out in March) won’t have Battlefield 4’s problems.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
