Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Team email startup Front raises $3.1M for 'multi-player version of Gmail' Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Problem: Mass emails come in to your office all the time, and there’s no way to collaborate on the perfect response. Solution: That’s where Front , a startup from Y Combinator’s 14th class, comes in.
Front’s product acts like a software layer on top of the IMAP or company email platforms we’re used to. Front provides shared inbox features along with new ways of managing email, like adding collaboration and social features.
For instance, emails to group accounts like sales@yourcompany.com can be discussed by a group of recipients within a continuous space, instead of being endlessly forwarded and replied to, creating confusing nests of responses.
Front has now announced that it has raised a $3.1 million seed round led by Jeff Clavier’s SoftTech VC. A number of SaaS-focused VC firms also participated, including BOLDStart, Point Nine Capital, Caffeinated Capital, and a number of angel investors.
Above: Front CEO Mathilde Collin. She’s French.
Among the angels were Gmail’s creator Paul Buchheit, Yahoo former chief product officer Geoff Ralston and Yahoo Communication Products SVP Jeff Bonforte.
Unlike traditional inbox applications, Front enables teams to collaborate when managing shared emails. It also offers features like assignments, automated workflows, and email comments.
“It’s like a multi-player version of Gmail,” says Laurent Perrin, CTO and co-founder of Front.
In one use case, HomeJoy, Detour, and Statuspage.io are using Front to handle email in their customer support operations. Some law firms are using it to collaborate on cases. Design agencies use it to manage customer interactions around projects. Front customer Mailchimp uses it to coordinate partnership interactions among business development team members.
Front’s CEO Mathilde Collin says her company has seen revenue growth of 10 to 15 percent per week since launching the product this summer.
“Front isn’t just designed to handle email collaboration,” Collin says. Other communication channels are supported, and you can manage incoming tweets or SMS messages as well.
“This provide an integral view of your customer or employee interactions”, she added.
Front co-founders Mathilde Collin and Laurent Perrin have now moved to San Francisco from France and will use this funding round ramp up product development, sales, and marketing.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
