Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Funding Daily: It's all Good Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Things are just dandy today at Good Technology, Eventboard, Front, Reddit, and a few other companies today. Read on to find out why.
Good Technology takes $80M Good Technology , a company that helps big businesses let their employees use mobile devices securely, has taken on $80 million before its upcoming IPO. In announcing the new funding today, Good didn’t say who was putting up the money. It only said Oppenheimer & Co. was handling the book-running.
Read more on VentureBeat: Mobile security player Good Technology takes $80M ahead of IPO Reddit gets $50M Community news-sharing site Reddit has raised a new $50 million round of funding, the company told VentureBeat today. The new round of funding was led by Y Combinator president Sam Altman, with participation from from Alfred Lin of Sequoia Capital and Marc Andreessen of Andreessen Horowitz. Others who participated in the round include a handful of tech industry entrepreneurs including Peter Thiel, Ron Conway, Paul Buchheit, Jessica Livingston, Kevin and Julia Hartz, Mariam Naficy, Josh Kushner, and even Reddit CEO Yishan Wong.
Read more on VentureBeat: Y Combinator president upvotes Reddit with $50M investment Remind scores $40M San Francisco-based startup Remind has no revenue to date. But that hasn’t stopped the secure broadcasting app for teachers, students, and parents from landing a new $40 million round on top of a previous $19 million. The new Series C funding round was led by previous investors Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, The Social+Capital Partnership, and First Round.
Read more on VentureBeat: Tapping mobile communication between parents and teachers, Remind scores $40M Netpulse gets $18.6M Netpulse offers a cloud platform that connects the gym’s check-in and membership system with the wearable devices of its members, as well as the treadmills and other workout gear in the gym. The gym can then collect workout information from all those end points, and can then use the information to offer its member loyalty and rewards programs. The rewards, it’s thought, will gamify the gym experience a bit, and hopefully keep members more engaged. The company announced yesterday that it has secured $18.6M in new funding led by Nokia Growth Partners, with participation from August Capital, Javelin Venture Partners, DFJ Frontier and Docomo Capital. The company plans to use the funds to accelerate growth, develop the platform, and introduce new integrations to wearables and systems.
Read the press release.
Sharethrough raises $10M In-feed ad exchange Sharethrough has pulled in $10 million, according to a statement the startup sent out today. British Sky Broadcasting is making a strategic investment. Elevation Partners, Floodgate, North Bridge Venture Partners, and Silver Creek Ventures are also participating. The new money will go toward the San Francisco startup’s international expansion.
Read the blog post.
Dwolla raises $9.7M Payments startup Dwolla has picked up $9.7 million in new funding, TechCrunch reported today. CME Group has joined in as an investor in the round alongside Andreessen Horowitz, Union Square Ventures, and Village Ventures, the company said in a statement.
Read Dwolla’s blog post.
Orckestra grabs $8M Orckestra , a startup with .NET-centric applications for managing e-commerce operations, has pulled in $8 million for its first round of financing, according to a statement the company issued today. Fondaction CSN, Fonds de solidarité FTQ, and W Investments participated.
The money will go toward getting more partners on board and expand the Montreal-based startup’s sales capabilities.
Read the press release.
365Scores raises $5.5M 365Scores , a startup with mobile apps for tracking sports games and teams, announced today $5.5 million in new funding. LETA Capital, Cedar Fund, Titanium Investments and private investors participated. The startup now sends 2 billion push notifications per month, it said in a statement today. Increasing social is on the to-do list for the startup.
Read the press release.
Front raises $3.1M Problem: Mass emails come in to your office all the time, and there’s no way to collaborate on the perfect response. Solution: That’s where Front , a startup from Y Combinator’s 14th class, comes in. Front has now announced that it has raised a $3.1 million seed round led by Jeff Clavier’s SoftTech VC. A number of SaaS-focused VC firms also participated, including BOLDStart, Point Nine Capital, Caffeinated Capital, and a number of angel investors. Among the angels were Gmail’s creator Paul Buchheit, Yahoo former chief product officer Geoff Ralston and Yahoo Communication Products SVP Jeff Bonforte.
Read more on VentureBeat: Team email startup Front raises $3.1M for ‘multi-player version of Gmail’ VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
