Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sorry, CompSci majors: Engineering degrees will out-earn you Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A new report finds that science degrees are outperforming every other discipline as measured in total lifetime earnings. From civil to aerospace, every engineering degree outranks all other degrees. Computer science comes in a close second to engineering degrees, with finance placing as the highest-earning non-science degree.
My one-time research partner , Brad Hershbein over at the Hamilton Project for the Brookings Institute, analyzed lifetime earnings for a variety of majors and found that the typical bachelor’s degree earns you a lifetime of $1.19 million, twice what the average high school degree holder earns. Engineering degree holders earn nearly $2 million over their lifetime, while an early child education major earns the least at around $750,000.
Biology is the one exception in the science degrees analyzed. Folks with a biology degree earn less than the average of all majors, including nursing, marketing, and business. Yet even as the worst performing science degree, it still outranks every single social science and humanities major.
Of course, this isn’t to say that humanities are not valuable. But, alone, they don’t produce the kinds of skills that are in demand.
Readers can see the full report here.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
