Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft's Windows Insider Program will let you test and shape Windows 10 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Windows 10 Start Menu Not satisfied with some of the changes in Windows 10 , Microsoft’s confusingly named Windows 8 follow up? You’ll soon have your chance to be heard.
Microsoft just launched the Windows Insider Program , which will allow more experienced Windows users to get their hands on the new OS and offer up some feedback, the company’s OS manager Terry Myerson announced at a launch event.
For the most part, Windows 10 appears to be an apology to the Windows faithful who may have felt betrayed by the touchscreen focus of Windows 8. Windows 10 looks like a direct successor to Windows 7 (don’t ask what happened to Windows 9), with some of Windows 8’s touchscreen elements baked in.
Microsoft says it will share more details on the Windows Insider Program tomorrow, so check back then. It’s unclear how the company will actually handle feedback from all of its testers, especially since this is the first time Microsoft is running such a widespread test.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
