Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages These are the best purported iPhone 6 case photos yet Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Like clockwork, the closer we get to a new Apple announcement the better the leaks get.
Today we have several photos of a purported iPhone 6 case and screen, which show off the device’s rumored new curved design. The photos first showed up on a Chinese blog , but were then picked up by AppleInsider and others.
Of course, there’s no way to tell if these photos are legitimate or not. But given that we’re so close to the iPhone 6’s September 9 announcement, it’s not unusual to see evidence of what could be final parts floating around.
I’ve seen plenty of similar iPhone 6 case leaks over the past few months, but these photos are by far the clearest I’ve seen so far. They appear to be from the 4.7-inch iPhone 6 model and sport a design that’s vaguely reminiscent of HTC’s new One M8.
In addition to the new curved edges, you can also see that there isn’t much of a side bezel around the sides of the phone’s screen. That’s to be expected, if Apple wants to cram in a larger display without making the phone itself too big.
If you’re eager to see what Apple’s got cooking, be sure to check out our rumor roundup for the upcoming iPhone 6 event.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
