Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Apple said to be working with American Express on iPhone 6 mobile payments Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Building on VentureBeat’s June report that Apple will be building an NFC (Near Field Communications) radio into the new iPhone 6, a new report Sunday says Apple has struck a deal with American Express to work together an a new mobile payments system for the iPhone 6 and beyond.
Apple, the report says, will announce its new mobile payments system at its event September 9 , at which time it may announce more financial services partners to help with mobile payments on iPhones.
The new payments system would create a powerful rival to Google’s Wallet platform, and the ISIS payments coalition supported by AT&T, Verizon, and T-Mobile, among others. Those systems have failed to take off with consumers so far.
With the NFC payments capability, iPhone 6 owners would be able to make brick and mortar store counter payments with their phones, instead of cash, cash cards, or credit cards.
Nobody knows yet if retailers have already begun working with Apple to implement the new iPhone payments option in their point-of-sale systems.
Reports have said that Apple has held discussions with several major credit card companies about participating. At least one report says Visa has already agreed to partner with Apple on payments.
VentureBeat was the first to report (in June) that the new iPhone would have NFC on board, a small radio chip that connects the phone with point-of-sale systems at the counter.
VentureBeat was also the first to report that Apple has been working hard on the fingerprint authentication feature , which will likely play a role in payments transactions.
Via: Re/code VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
