Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages GamesBeat weekly roundup: Amazon buys Twitch, Pokémon gets a fighting game, and 20 years of Gabriel Knight Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Machamp look like he means business in the new fighting game Pokkén Tournament.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
This time, Amazon bought Twitch, we got our first look at a Pokémon fighting game, and the classic adventure game Gabriel Knight turned 20.
You’ll find all of that and more below. Have a great weekend! Pieces of flair and opinion Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The DeanBeat: Getting an acquisition story wrong, and the lessons that come from it Life without NCAA Football 15: Here are 5 alternatives to get you through the season NCAA Football 15? How a community is keeping the series alive with updated rosters, playoffs, and more GamesBeat 2014 panel tackles partnering with Asian giants — without getting trampled How sports gamers are integral to Microsoft’s Xbox One strategy How GameStop’s ‘high touch’ customer service is paying off Here’s what Amazon’s $970M acquisition of Twitch really signifies Electronic Arts CEO Andrew Wilson to talk about game industry change at GamesBeat 2014 Forget the kids: Adults will love these 4 retro gaming toys Amazon’s Twitch acquisition is about beating Google and Apple In global gaming, Amazon gains an advantage, and Google loses a round Why Silent Hill’s playable teaser P.T. is about scares, not endings Gabriel Knight 20 years later: How this point-and-click adventure has changed from 1994 to 2014 (gallery) Above: Finally, Mario and Link can determine who is the better racer.
News HackerRank ‘gamifies’ technical job recruiting for game companies (exclusive) Steam’s ‘no refunds’ policy for games under legal challenge in Australia Game-maker group scolds trolls over death threats and other harassment of developers So many dudes: 93% of Wii U eShop customers are men Xbox One is a better media machine with its September update that’s rolling out now Titanfall is getting a mode with no Titans and no bots — just 16 humans PlayStation Network down for rescheduled maintenance Destiny available to preload on Xbox One today (updated) Eve Online developer closes its San Francisco office Splatoon was nearly a Mario third-person shooter, according to Shigeru Miyamoto Critic Anita Sarkeesian receives online death threats after latest Feminist Frequency video on games Mario creator Shigeru Miyamoto calls ‘passive’ entertainment ‘pathetic’ in appeal to core fans BioWare assures fans that Dragon Age: Inquisition’s multiplayer won’t affect the single-player mode Doctor Who time-travels to Minecraft on Xbox 360 Kinect lives! Xbox One’s standalone camera goes on sale for $150 with Dance Central next month Lindsay Lohan only sued us for publicity, says Grand Theft Auto V developer Mario Kart 8’s DLC includes Zelda’s Link, Animal Crossing’s Villager, and an F-Zero kart (gallery) PlayStation Network down intermittently for PS4, PS3, and Vita owners — Sony working on a fix Amazon’s purchase of Twitch pushes games M&A to $9.2B so far in 2014 Amazon acquires Twitch: World’s largest e-tailer buys largest gameplay-livestreaming site Confirmed: Amazon could steal Twitch acquisition from Google Pokémon fighting game announced: Pokkén Tournament heading to Japanese arcades Capcom sues Koei Tecmo for using disc-based expansion packs You win, Steam: GameFly sells its PC digital-distribution service France’s Asmodee Group acquires ‘Ticket to Ride’ board-game maker Days of Wonder PlayStation Network, League of Legends back online after a day of outages due to DDoS attacks PlayStation Network goes down, and hackers claim responsibility (update: it gets crazier) Above: Kim Kardashian’s game for smartphones and tablets.
Mobile and social Angry Birds maker Rovio chooses a new CEO to succeed longtime boss in 2015 Poor performance means ‘game over’ for mobile gaming apps Mobile Dota 2-like Heroes of Order & Chaos gets built-in Twitch broadcasting Kim Kardashian crushes the competition for mobile games in July The cost of acquiring mobile app users ebbs in July, but it’s still outrageously high Here’s what Candy Crush Saga and Kim Kardashian are doing to your phone’s storage and battery life Big-spending players stage boycott in Kabam’s Dragons of Atlantis: Heirs of the Dragon mobile game Microsoft unveils Age of Empires: Castle Siege for Windows 8 and Windows Phone 8 WWE SuperCard digital card game slams past 1.5 million downloads in one week Previews and interviews A real astronomer weighs in on finding habitable planets in Civilization: Beyond Earth (interview) 20 years of Gabriel Knight: Jane Jensen on the anniversary edition of the adventure classic (interview) Reviews Azure Striker Gunvolt is a smart, updated take on 16-bit action games (review) The Walking Dead’s Season Two Episode Five lacks closure (review) No objection! Professor Layton vs. Phoenix Wright is a satisfying mashup (review) GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
