Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages First look at Apple's new 'spaceship' campus, thanks to drone Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Bloggers supply content to Apple-crazy tech sites with a combination of hard-core sleuthing, logical conclusions, and guesswork. Now they have another tool at their disposal: drones.
Just as Apple mania is reaching a fever pitch over the iPhone 6 and “iWatch,” an unknown drone pilot shot video of the future home of Apple’s “spaceship” headquarters.
The anonymous pilot, reports 9to5Mac , took pictures and shot video of the work in progress, which cannot be clearly seen from the ground.
The ginormous new campus was one of the last things Steve Jobs envisioned before his death. He was the one who originally described the building as looking a bit like a spaceship.
And so far, it does: Here’s the full video: Above: A rendering of Sir Norman Foster’s design for Apple’s new headquarters in Cupertino, Calif.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
