Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Hands-on with Emojli, the emoji-only messenger Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Today I joined Emojli.
Months ago, I was one of the 70,000 people who claimed an emoji-only username — an emojiname? — for the comically niche emoji-only messaging app. Yep, you can’t use words. Just Emojis. And now, the iPhone app’s finally here.
Add me: My username’s “Spouting Whale, Humpback Whale.” Using the app Unless you already know your friend’s emojiname, you may have trouble finding anyone to talk to at all. Emojli is a cold, empty place when you first log in. Luckily, a quick tweet yielded a few results: friend requests from “Running guy, Race Horse” and “Earbud, iPhone.” That’s when I got my first message: I decided to play it cool: Later, friends started sharing their usernames with me, too. “You should friend request me,” one said, “I’m ‘hair-toss, flamenco girl.’” “Added u,” said another, “I’m ‘French fry, Pizza.’” Will Emojli be the next Yo? It’s difficult to tell. I spent a good five minutes trying to find the hair-toss emoji. But maybe I’m old fashioned? Sometimes, I even use proper grammar when I send text messages.
70,000 people signed up to use Emojli when it was first announced, and I’m one among thousands of people who will likely try the app out today. You might want to give the app a try, too. And if you need someone to emoji to, feel free to send me a wave.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
