Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Alibaba's IPO launch may happen soon Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Alibaba CEO Jack Ma.
Alibaba’s long-awaited U.S. initial public offering is drawing near.
Since the e-commerce giant filed for an IPO back in May , analysts have speculated that the offering could be the largest in U.S. history, surpassing Facebook’s $16 billion.
The IPO was expected to launch in August but was then pushed back to September. According to the Wall Street Journal , sources close to the matter are saying the date is set for the week of September 8 and will list under BABA.
Alibaba will be pitching key investors the week of September 8, sources tell the New York Times.
 That report says shares likely won’t be priced until September 15.
In June, Alibaba released sales figures for its two biggest shopping sites Taobao and Tmall at the request of potential investors and as a way to build excitement for the coming IPO. Later that month, the company selected the New York Stock Exchange to debut its public stock.
Alibaba is considered China’s version of Amazon, but in fact it has many more moving parts. The company spans e-commerce, cloud computing, and online payments, making it more closely resemble eBay or Google more than Amazon — especially considering the majority of its revenue comes from advertising and purchase commissions.
In the months leading up to the IPO, Alibaba has been on a buying spree, scooping up companies to fill out its Internet offerings including UCWeb.
 The company also launched U.S. online marketplace 11Main , marking its foray into the U.S. e-commerce market.
Last year Taobao and Tmall handled $248 billion in transactions, blowing way past Amazon.
Currently Yahoo and Japanese Internet company Softbank Corp. are the largest shareholders in Alibaba.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
