Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages AT&T sues Cox for network optimization patent infringement Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn AT&T is going to war against Cox Communications over patents for network optimization technology.
AT&T said it has been warning Cox about its use of the technology as far back as 2009; in addition, the Dallas-based carrier claims that Cox refused to talk to AT&T about licensing the technology.
“(Cox) generates billions of dollars in revenue every year through its use of AT&T’s technologies,” the telecommunications giant said in the lawsuit filing.
According to AT&T, the patented technology is used in video set-top boxes, digital video recorders, Internet service, and telephone systems. It is also used to deliver telecommunications services more quickly and at less cost.
AT&T also alleges in the suit that Cox actively induced its customers and employees to infringe.
If AT&T wins the case, Cox would have to pay an ongoing royalty for use of the technology.
Cox said it was still reviewing the suit and was not ready to comment Friday.
See the Complaint here.
Via: Re/code VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
