Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages New Yo messaging service lets doctors say Yo! I'm ready to examine you Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Moshe Hogeg & Or Arbel, Yo, Dylan Tweney, VentureBeat Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Our friends at Yo have dreamed up a couple of new uses for their ultra-simple messaging service that transmits just one word.
The Israeli company has so far been sailing along quite nicely on the sheer novelty of its app, but it knows that it will have to find some more serious applications to keep the fun going.
So today we learn about “Yo Lineup,” a messaging tool that will help doctors offices and restaurants handle appointments and reservations.
“It’s a separate web app that is built on top of the Yo API platform,” explains Yo spokeswoman Ayelet Noff.
The app turns phones into pagers, in essence, letting doctors tell patients when their appointment is about to happen, and letting restaurants tell customers when their table is ready.
The app is free, but in order for food patrons and health patients to be notified, they have to have the app and be signed in.
Yo says its app has now been installed 2 million times.
So far, Yo has taken $1.5 million in venture funding.
“There’s a fine line between stupid and genius,” said Yo co-founder Moshe Hogeg onstage at VentureBeat’s MobileBeat conference July 9.
He also said that “sometimes the message is the message.” For telling people their table or health exam is ready to happen, a single word really is all you need.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
