Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft launches new Office for iPad features, still dominates on Apple's home turf Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Today Microsoft bestowed upon us an update to Office for iPad, introducing a series of new features that make the mobile productivity suite a bit more like its desktop counterpart.
The updates — we’ll get to them in a moment — are a bit boring, but they may encourage a noteworthy trend: Microsoft’s remarkable ability to show Apple up in its own App Store.
Yes, in direct competition with Apple’s prettier productivity apps, Microsoft has proven in the past four months that Office has legs on the top-selling tablet, if data from app tracking service App Annie is accurate.
According to App Annie, Microsoft Word for iPad holds the number one spot among top productivity apps in the U.S., and ranks at number 11 among top apps overall in the U.S.. Apple’s Pages, by comparison, ranks number seven in productivity and barely ranks within the top 250 apps overall.
Here are the stats in pictures: Microsoft Word for iPad U.S. App Store stats Pages for iPad U.S. App Store stats With today’s update, Microsoft touts that PowerPoint for iPad users can now activate “Presenter View” when sharing presentations to another screen. PowerPoint also now supports video importing directly from the iPad’s camera roll. On Excel, PivotTables are now more interactive, and across all apps (even Word), PDF exporting now works for all users — paid and unpaid.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
