Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Indiegogo finally launches an iOS app for everyone Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Indiegogo for iPhone Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Crowdfunding platform Indiegogo has released a new mobile app today that will let you contribute interesting and inventive fundraising campaigns on-the-go.
The mobile app is long over due, especially considering Indiegogo’s rise to become one of the largest crowdfunding platforms in the world. (Competitor Kickstarter has had a mobile app for a while, too.) The company previously released a mobile app that was only available to those in the Canadian market earlier this month. Indiegogo said the app launch comes after the company saw mobile traffic to its website from international users double in the last year.
The app itself is free and currently only available on iOS devices. The app lets you search for new funding campaigns by category or via recommendations. You can also claim campaign perks. And those that are running an Indiegogo campaign also gain functionality, such as getting notifications for new contributions, monitoring comments, posting updates, and more.
Personally, I’ve missed out on donating money to campaigns due to the lack of a mobile app. And presuming I’m not the only one to experience this, the new iOS app will help speed up the number of campaign contributions on Indiegogo in general.
Founded in 2008, the San Francisco, Calif.-based startup has raised $56.5 million in funding to date. It competes with a slew of rivals, including Kickstarter, Tilt (formerly Crowdtilt), Crowdfunder, and others. Check out the gallery of screenshots below for a closer look at the new Indiegogo iOS app, and let us know what you think of it in the comments.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
