Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Twitter buys a password security startup, then sets it free Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Twitter just scooped up password security startup Mitro, its second acquisition this week.
Mitro is a secure password manager that lets users share password information within specified groups. The software uses encryption to ensure passwords stay safe.
Rather than shut down the service, Twitter is transitioning the product into an open-source project.
“As of today, we are releasing all of Mitro’s server and client code under the GPL license on Github,” a message on Mitro’s site reads. The company will be seeking advice from the Electronic Freedom Foundation on turning to service into a community run project.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! In short, this was likely a talent grab.
Before being acquired, Mitro raised a total of $2.4 million dollars with Google Ventures and Matrix Partners contributing during its seed round.
The purchase comes less than 24 hours after another buy. Is Twitter on a little late summer buying spree? Back-to-school shopping, perhaps? (Ha ha.) Yesterday, Twitter acquired deep learning tech startup Madbits.
 The startup emphasized its focus imaged-based learning in a post on its site.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
