Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Lily Hay Newman Security Amazon's Latest Gimmicks Are Pushing the Limits of Privacy The Ring Always Home Cam flies around your house looking for trouble. Maybe think twice before you let it.
Photograph: Amazon Save this story Save Save this story Save At the end of September, amidst its usual flurry of fall hardware announcements, Amazon debuted two especially futuristic products within five days of each other. The first is a small autonomous surveillance drone, Ring Always Home Cam , that waits patiently inside a charging dock to eventually rise up and fly around your house, checking whether you left the stove on or investigating potential burglaries. The second is a palm recognition scanner, Amazon One, that the company is piloting at two of its grocery stores in Seattle as a mechanism for faster entry and checkout. Both products aim to make security and authentication more convenient—but for privacy-conscious consumers, they also raise red flags.
Amazon's latest data-hungry innovations are not launching in a vacuum. The company also owns Ring, whose smart doorbells have had myriad security issues and have been widely criticized for bringing unprecedented surveillance to traditionally semi-private spaces. Meanwhile, the biometric data that Amazon One will collect is particularly sensitive, because unlike a password you can't simply change it if a hacker steals it or it gets unintentionally exposed. Amazon has a strong record for maintaining the security of its massive cloud infrastructure, but there have been lapses across the sprawling business. The stakes are already phenomenally high; the more data the company holds the more risk it takes on.
"Amazon has a major genomics cloud platform , so maybe they hold your DNA and now they’re going to have your palm as well? Plus all of these devices inside your house. And your purchase history on Prime. That’s a lot of information. That’s a lot of personal information," says Nina Alli, executive director of Defcon's Biohacking Village and a health care security researcher. "When you give away this data you’re giving a company the ability to access and manage you, not the other way around." Both new products have features clearly intended to mollify security and privacy skeptics. Ring's Always Home Cam, which integrates with the home security system Ring Alarm, rests in a dock that physically blocks its camera most of the time. This means that the device can only capture video when it's in flight. When you set up the product you walk it around your house on the different flight paths you want it to take and those become the only places the drone can fly. Furthermore, Ring says that the drone "cannot be manually controlled," which would mean that even if hackers were able to somehow access it remotely, they still wouldn't be able to direct it off of its pre-set paths. The camera also emits an audible hum while it's flying so you have a heads up if it mistakenly activates while you're making a midnight snack.
"Amazon is throwing terrifying spaghetti at the wall." Evan Greer, Fight for the Future The Amazon One announcement attempted to be similarly proactive about addressing potential privacy and security concerns. In a Frequently Asked Questions section , Amazon physical retail vice president Dilip Kumar emphasized that once customers set up an Amazon One account they can request that their data be deleted online or at an Amazon One kiosk at any time. He also noted that Amazon selected palm recognition, which can include assessment of size, patterns, markings, and ridges of a palm as well as analysis of vein patterns, because it "requires someone to make an intentional gesture by holding their palm over the device to use." And he added that palms aren't as recognizable as, say, your face.
"Amazon One uses multiple characteristics of a person’s palm, not just their veins, to identify each person that uses the service," a company spokesperson told WIRED. "Amazon One is designed to work with only living human palms, so if a bad actor attempted to use an improvised palm, it would be rejected by the service." There has already been research, though, into attacks that trick vein-based authentication , as well as work on the limitations of fingerprint scanners that assess surface finger features. Researchers have also found ways to get around efforts to ensure that biometric scanners will only authenticate living people. The more ubiquitous palm scanners become, the more researchers and bad actors will investigate their security features and the more readily people will put out their palms.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg "I'm worried that people could read your palm vein pattern in other ways and construct an analog. It's only a matter of time," says Joseph Lorenzo Hall, a longtime security and privacy researcher and a senior vice president at the nonprofit Internet Society.
Additionally, while companies like Apple and Samsung have brought biometric fingerprint and face scanners to the masses by making sure the data never leaves the device, Amazon One takes the opposite approach. Kumar writes that "palm images are never stored" on Amazon One itself. Instead they are encrypted and sent to a special high security area of Amazon's cloud to be converted into "palm signatures" based on the unique and distinctive features of a user's hand. Then the service compares that signature to the one on file in each user's account and returns a match or no match answer back down to the device.
It makes sense that Amazon doesn't want to store databases of people's palm data locally on publicly accessible machines that could be manipulated. But the system could perhaps have been set up to generate a palm signature locally, delete the image of a person's hand, and send only the encrypted signature on for analysis. The fact that all of those palm images will be going for cloud processing creates a single point of failure.
"Both the home drone and the palm payment are going to rely heavily on the cloud and on the security provided by that cloud storage," the Internet Society's Hall says. "That's worrying because it means all the risks—rogue employees, government data requests, data breach, secondary uses—associated with data collection on the server-side could be possible. I'm much more comfortable having a biometric template stored locally rather than on a server where it might be exfiltrated." An Amazon spokesperson told WIRED, "We are confident that the cloud is highly secure. In addition, Amazon One palm data is stored separately from other personal identifiers, and is uniquely encrypted with its own keys in a secure zone in the cloud." Privacy advocates note, though, that all of this focus on security and data protection belies a larger question about where digital surveillance technologies can lead when they are normalized and become ubiquitous.
"Amazon is throwing terrifying spaghetti at the wall," says Evan Greer, deputy director of the digital rights group Fight for the Future. "In the process they're gleaning valuable data about what we will and won't accept. It seems like it's more about stress-testing our tolerance for surveillance in the name of convenience." Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg Greer points out that numerous Amazon surveillance technologies have had privacy consequences the company apparently didn't foresee. For example, unbeknownst to customers, Amazon used third-party human reviewers to listen back to audio snippets of people talking to their Echo speakers and other Alexa-enabled products in their homes. Ring doorbell cameras have repeatedly come under fire for both security issues and Amazon's opt-in programs to share neighborhood doorbell footage with law enforcement. The company had to impose a yearlong ban on law enforcement using its facial recognition platform Rekognition after criticism and protests about the service's accuracy and reliability.
"Amazon's entire business model is based on surveillance," Greer emphasizes. "With each new product they release it becomes more and more clear that their goal is to amass so much data about everything that their monopoly power becomes unchallengeable." Weeks before Always Home Cam and Amazon Go, the company announced a new wearable called Halo which claims to, among other things, track the emotional tone of your voice.
The technological leaps like the ones Amazon has been taking create subtle but powerful guiding forces in society despite, in some cases, unclear gains for users. The Biohacking Village's Alli points out, for example, that as long as everyone has a smartphone in their pocket, scanning your palm doesn't actually provide significantly more convenience than an NFC transaction or displaying a barcode.
In its recent spate of announcements, Amazon did add some important pro-privacy features. One is for its smart assistant Alexa, which will now include the option not to have Amazon automatically delete your voice snippets as soon as the service processes your request. The platform will still retain the transcripts of your requests for 30 days unless you manually delete them. The company also announced that users will be able to opt-in to have their Ring video footage end-to-end encrypted by the end of 2020. These are welcome changes, but in the case of Alexa it took six years to implement what should have been at least an option at launch.
Amazon is certainly not the only company releasing gadgets that have access to your most deeply intimate data. But the steady drumbeat of new releases from the company that push the boundaries of privacy—this year and in years past—hints at a strategy of pushing as far as the market will bear, and then reshaping what that threshold can be.
"What Amazon is doing reminds me of the scene in Jurassic Park where the guy is like, 'Those raptors are smart. They're systematically testing the fence for weaknesses,'" Fight for the Future's Greer says.
As privacy advocates have long warned, foundational privacy rights are much harder to restore once they're gone than they are to maintain.
Update 10/12 4:10PM ET: This story has been updated to include additional comment from Amazon.
📩 Want the latest on tech, science, and more? Sign up for our newsletters ! The West’s infernos are melting our sense of how fire works Amazon wants to “win at games.” So why hasn’t it ? Publishers worry as ebooks fly off libraries' virtual shelves Your photos are irreplaceable.
Get them off your phone How Twitter survived its big hack— and plans to stop the next 🎮 WIRED Games: Get the latest tips, reviews, and more 🏃🏽‍♀️ Want the best tools to get healthy? Check out our Gear team’s picks for the best fitness trackers , running gear (including shoes and socks ), and best headphones Senior Writer X Topics Amazon surveillance drones privacy David Gilbert Lily Hay Newman Justin Ling Dell Cameron Andy Greenberg Lily Hay Newman Andrew Couts David Gilbert Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
