Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages eBay's workforce is almost gender-equal, but women trail in tech and leadership roles Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn eBay posted its diversity report today, revealing that it is closer to a gender-neutral workforce than any other major Internet company. Women make up 42 percent of its staff.
We recently covered how eBay’s Silicon Valley counterparts compare in gender and race diversity. Yahoo’s workforce is 38 percent female. Google and Facebook have 30 percent and 31 percent respectively.
“I do commend eBay for its diversity initiatives — and humility,” gender researcher and author Vivek Wadhwa told VentureBeat in an email.
But, when it comes to gender diversity in tech and leadership positions, eBay performs only slightly better than the rest of the pack, with women constituting only 34 percent of its techies and 36 percent of its leaders.
It’s worth noting that eBay was also the first of the major tech companies to have a female CEO, Meg Whitman.
Gender imbalance might spread from the board downward in tech companies. One report from Ernst & Young found that there was an association between the percent of female board members and the percentage of female leaders [ PDF ].
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
