Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Airbnb says it's better for the environment than hotels Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Airbnb promo graphic for its redesigned logo Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Update 5:36 p.m. ET: Airbnb has refused VentureBeat’s request to publish their study in full.
Airbnb today announced a self-commissioned study with an interesting claim: that Airbnb guests “use 63 percent less energy than hotel guests.” The study rests on a survey by the Cleantech Group consultancy, researched between February and April of this year. The consultants say they surveyed “over 8,000 … hosts and guests,” and then compared the responses with “research on residential and hotel sustainability levels and practices.” According to the study, North American Airbnb guests are more likely to use public transportation and to recycle than hotel guests are. Airbnb says this saves “the equivalent of 270 Olympic-sized pools of water,” and avoids “the greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to 33,000 cars on North American roads.” Airbnb also says that 95 percent of its North American hosts recycle — far higher than claimed U.S. averages, which vary loosely between 58 percent and 75 percent , depending on where you look.
The study should certainly be taken with a grain of salt. In addition to the fact that Airbnb commissioned the study, many of the factors considered appear to rest on anecdotal evidence, and it’s comparing results from the survey with separate research results — not exactly a recipe for generating scientific results.
That said, Airbnb’s arguments are technically plausible and may aid in its quest to win over skeptical lawmakers.
Reached by VentureBeat, Airbnb refused to allow its full study to be published online. The company has yet to explain why it does not want the entire study published. You can view more highlights below.
[slideshare id=37540567&w=640&h=350&sc=no] In other news, Airbnb has a new logo.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
