Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Exclusive Technically, you can now autoplay music on your Twitter profile — like Myspace circa 2008 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Someone — perhaps unwittingly — has figured out how to embed autoplaying audio inside of a tweet.
Within a Twitter Card generated by fashion and culture site Dazed , a media player powered by “video platform” firm Kaltura autojams audio from this video by Tom Beard and FKA twigs.
 It is entirely unclear if this “feature” is the result of a hack, a random bug (most likely), or a quiet feature test led by Twitter. But it sure reminds us of Myspace circa 2008 , as the music also autoplays on profiles which retweet the tweet.
You can view the tweet in question or see footage of it in action.
 Twitter has not yet responded to VentureBeat’s request for comment on the matter.
In our tests, audio consistently autoplayed in the latest versions of Chrome, Safari, and Firefox on Mac, but not in Twitter’s mobile apps. Nobody nearby had a PC.
The talented folk at @DazedMagazine shot a music vid in our empty space with the brilliant @FKAtwigs.
 Check it out: http://t.co/iGjuj1G7ro — SECOND HOME (@SECONDHOMELDN) June 19, 2014 We’re investigating the matter as best we can without Twitter’s response. For now, check out the tweet and leave the browser open. The music’s not bad.
This isn’t the first time autoplaying content has appeared on Twitter. The Weather Channel got into trouble for autoplaying video ads earlier this year.
On a related note, Facebook introduced autoplaying video ads a few months ago.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
