Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Windows Phone is getting folders — just like all the other mobile OS platforms have already Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Wind Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The Windows Phone may soon come with an additional feature to help you to stay organized: folders.
Microsoft announced on its Window Phone website that it will add a native folder function on its home screen in Windows 8.1 The company has since taken down the post that included this bit of news, but speculation continues as the tech giant looks to rival Android and Apple’s operating systems.
Currently, both iOS and some Android versions allow users to create folders to store apps of their choosing. The Windows Phone would also give users the option to name the folders they create.
Apple has allowed the creation of folders since the release of iOS4 in 2010, so Microsoft has lagged for quite a while on this feature.
Windows 8.1 is expected to be released in July or August, but Microsoft hasn’t nailed down an official date yet.
Upon the release of this update, Windows is expected to continue onward with its work on Threshold, the next major operating system from Microsoft. Windows 8 came out to mixed reviews, and columnist and tech expert Mary Jo Foley expects 8.1 to be the last update for it before Threshold debuts.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
