Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Grindr just got sexier thanks to its new Android design, hits iOS later Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Mens mobile dating app Grindr plans to launch a redesign tomorrow that may make its available men even more appealing.
The new design showcases profile pictures more prominently, so you’ll have to work a little harder to get to a person’s profile stats. And not only can you see how far away other users are, but now Grindr will calculate travel time—so you’ll know exactly how long it will take you to go the 240 feet to your next hook-up. A company spokesman says this is to “help [users] to determine if a rendezvous is worthwhile.” As an added bonus all Grindrers will now be able to quickly switch between both profiles and chats—navigation that was previously available only to Grindr Xtra users.
For now the updated app will only be available on Android phones, with an iOS version in the works. Grindr continues to streamline its process of getting single men set-up. Hopefully, other dating apps are taking notes.
Want to find out more about what’s going on at Grindr? The company’s Head of Product Matt Norris will be speaking at MobileBeat next week.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
