Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Good news, iOS Spotify listeners: You can now search for tracks while offline Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Well, it was about time: You can finally search downloaded music on Spotify’s iOS apps while offline.
While not a seemingly huge update, anything adding to the mobile experience is a win when it comes to Spotify. Rumors that the company was finally making music streaming available on mobile to its free listeners surfaced this past December , and it finally overhauled its Windows phone app in May.
Interestingly, it looks like the feature was part of the iOS app until Spotify pulled it back in December, according to a Spotify community thread.
 The return of more mobile features and capabilities for nonpaying users is likely welcome news to those listeners.
Rdio, a similar service to Spotify, only offers offline search on mobile for its paying customers.
Via 9to5 Mac.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
