Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Databricks adds on $33M and rolls out a Spark cloud service for analyzing data Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Databricks , a startup that provides support for the popular open-source Apache Spark project, will keep pushing the technology for speedily analyzing lots of data and releasing new products based on it, thanks to a new funding round.
The startup announced the fresh $33 million this morning and also revealed a new service that takes the company in a new direction: a platform for running and managing Spark jobs and visualizing data on a Databricks-owned cloud.
On this new cloud, companies can run Spark-based applications for business intelligence and other purposes. The point is to eliminate the need to tinker with a zoo of tools in order to clean up, process, and analyze data, Databricks chief executive Ion Stoica told VentureBeat in an interview.
“Our goal is to say we want to make it as easy as possible for people to use it,” Stoica said of Spark.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Big data people see Spark and its toolset — the Shark SQL query engine, the Spark Streaming tool for processing data on the fly, the MLib library for machine learning, and the GraphX API for graph processing — as the successor of technologies based on MapReduce, the initial programming model for the Hadoop ecosystem of open-source tools for analyzing lots of different kinds of data.
The Spark community claims vast performance improvements on MapReduce, primarily because of its efficient use of computing resources. Programs can go as much as 100 times faster in memory or 10 times faster on disk. So the Hadoop distribution vendors have caught on and started incorporating Spark into their product offerings.
And Databricks partners with those Hadoop distribution vendors, like Cloudera and MapR , to support customers’ use of Spark.
Going forward, though, companies will have the choice of tapping Databricks’ cloud whenever they want, without worrying about managing everything on their own.
The cloud service initially runs on Amazon Web Services, and it will come to other clouds, like Google’s and Microsoft’s, Stoica said.
Users will be able to create dashboards and notebooks to display their findings in addition to running jobs on the service, he said.
In addition to pushing the new cloud service, Databricks will continue to take steps to expand the Spark community, by certifying more applications that can run on Spark and also bringing Spark classes to massively open online course (MOOC) sites, said Stoica, who, in addition to heading up the startup, also teaches computer science at the University of California, Berkeley.
To date Berkeley, Calif.-based Databricks has raised $47 million, including a $14 million round from last September.
New Enterprise Associates led the new round. Andreessen Horowitz also participated.
About 30 people work at the one-year-old startup now. It should enter the 60-100-person range within a year, Stoica said.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
