Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Yodlee files for a $75M public offering Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Yodlee , a company with cloud-based financial-services software for banks and other finance companies, began the process of going public today.
The company aims to raise $75 million in an initial public offering, according to the S-1 document Yodlee filed today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company will be the latest cloud software company to head for public markets. Veeva Software and Tableau had successful IPOs last year , and this year has business-to-business companies like Arista , oPower and Paycom have gone public.
Companies like Dropbox, Box, New Relic, AppDynamics, and Cloudera have been in a position to go public this year , although some have taken on financing rounds that could help them put off such an event.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! Yodlee claims 750 organizations use its tools — including most of the 15 largest banks in the United States — and pass them on to their consumers. The company collects subscription fees for 15.7 million of consumers.
At one point, Yodlee served up data for Mint before Intuit bought Mint.
Last year Yodlee launched Active Commerce Exchange , a bevy of applications that banks can plug in.
With the exception of 2010, Yodlee has taken a loss every year since it started in 1999.
Last year Yodlee reported a $1.18 million net loss on $70.1 million in revenue. Most of the revenue came from subscriptions and support, although some also came from professional services.
Yodlee, based in Redwood City, Calif., had 780 full-time employees as of March 31. Most are based in Bangalore, India.
Investors include Accel Partners, Institutional Venture Partners, and Warburg Pincus.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
