Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Turkey's highest court says the Prime Minister's YouTube ban violates basic freedoms Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Civil liberties have taken a beating in Turkey in recent months, but banning YouTube and Twitter is going too far, says Turkey’s highest court.
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has been working overtime to suppress media rights in his country, including the right to social commentary on the Internet.
Erdogan ordered a ban on YouTube in March , after videos showed up containing audio recordings of Turkish government officials discussing plans to wage war in Syria. Turkey’s constitutional court has now ruled that such a blanket ban is a violation of Turkey’s freedom of speech laws.
Erdogan promised to “wipe out” Twitter last month after people tweeted photos suggesting corruption in the Prime Minister’s office. He followed through, imposing a blanket ban on Twitter use. The court declared that unconstitutional, too.
The court ruling against the YouTube ban is said to be binding and irreversible. The court itself has had little tolerance for the prime minister’s tactics, claiming that they are politically motivated.
In April, the head of Turkey’s Constitutional Court, Haşim Kılıc, gave a speech in which he summed up the court’s feelings on the subject: “Those who occupy the castle used the judiciary as a tool of revenge against their adversaries and to provide logistical support for their ideological opinions,” Kilic said. “It’s a dream to build an independent judiciary unless it gets rid of such an understanding and occupation. A judiciary under tutelage cannot provide legal safety.” Via: Wired VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
