Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored What do kids really think of wearable technology? (video) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn This sponsored post is produced by Wearable World.
Sometimes we as “grown-ups” miss the point. That’s what us folks are Wearable World have learned about wearable technology over the past year. We’ve gone to our set of pundits to get the answers.
So, what do kids think about wearable technology? We’ve partnered with Waggener Edstrom to create the first ever video answering just that very question. This may be the most informative wearable technology post to date…and definitely the cutest.
[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NKGI88st2xo&w=853&h=480] Want to hear what others think about wearable technology? Be sure to RSVP for GLAZEDcon , the largest wearable conference in the world, June 3-4 in San Francisco.
Get your ticket today for a 40% discount or do the right thing and get a 2for1 ticket and bring a friend! Register here.
Sponsored posts are content that has been produced by a company that is either paying for the post or has a business relationship with VentureBeat, and they’re always clearly marked. The content of news stories produced by our editorial team is never influenced by advertisers or sponsors in any way. For more information, contact sales@venturebeat.com.
[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NKGI88st2xo&w=640&h=360] The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
