Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages How to get your own personal Holodeck, courtesy of gaming goddess Jeri Ellsworth Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
These nerds have made a sort of Oculus Rift/Google Glass hybrid that promises to bring an immersive, Holodeck-like virtual reality straight to your face.
But don’t take my word for it! Here’s gamer goddess Jeri Freaking Ellsworth explaining how her little ol’ Kickstarter project works: [youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D_f9Tg57zI8] Brought to you by Technical Illusions , the castAR system “combines the best elements of Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality into one lightweight package! Utilizing a technology we call “Projected Reality,” castAR creates hologram-like images unique to each user. Simply attach our “VR clip-on” and the glasses transform into fully immersive Virtual Reality experience.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! (Honestly, the concept puts us in mind of the Moverio units that we got our hands on at CES earlier this year. Those specs came from Epson and are consumer-ready with a $700 pricetag.) The whole castAR system will set you back $345 for a pre-order that includes the glasses, a magic wand, and a 1 square-meter projection surface. Units should start shipping in September, the company says.
You can also tack on a few extras with your order. The AR/VR clip-on will cost you $85, and you can also get a tracking grid and precision bases to further amplify your virtual world.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
