Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages From concept art to polygons: The evolution of a game character Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Cammy doesn't wear a mask, so Decapre is not an exact duplicate of her. Suck it, haters.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Before your favorite game heroes (and villains) looked all sexy and bad-ass as 3D models, they started out as fugly drawings on a napkin or raw sketches on a tablet.
Some characters, like Ultra Street Fighter IV’s Decapre [ pictured above ] all come from existing designs — in this case, Cammy — but artists still have to make multiple illustrations until they get every detail right and ready for rendering.
See how much 10 popular characters changed from concept art to in-game polygonal models in the following side-by-side images.
Click here for more cool comparisons.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Wilhelm “Deathshead” Strasse (Wolfenstein: The New Order) Garret (Thief) Ellie (The Last of Us) Dracula (Castlevania: Lords of Shadow 2) 1 2 View All The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
