Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages More venture funding doesn't always lead to richer paydays (study) Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Bulking up on venture capital doesn’t always result in a happy payday down the line. It can actually lead to a less valuable exit, a new study from the research group Exitround finds.
Lots of startups talk about staying “lean and mean” capital-wise during scale-up, but the temptation to take on new investment can be tough to resist given the growing number of seed investors.
Exitround worked with some big-name startup accelerators (Y Combinator, Techstars, SoftTech VC, and others) to study the real connection between venture funding and exits of less than $100 million.
Startups that raised a total of $2-$3 million or $5-$10 million had the best return on investment, the study found. Companies that generate the top exits at this stage are on average at least four years old.
“Despite raising more capital, some companies had a lower average exit price. Somewhat counterintuitively, at this very early stage, companies doing better tend to raise less capital,” the report states. “. . . lean startups with small teams move quickly and build a product that takes off, so they often don’t need to raise more than that initial $1 million or $2 million–until they really grow and raise a much larger round.” Of all the startup exits Exitround studied, the average return on investment was 13.6 times the investment amount. The overall median return was five times the investment amount.
Exitround says tech startup mergers and acquisitions of less than $100 million comprise about 88 percent of all exits but are often misreported or not reported at all.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
