Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Sponsored VB Webinar: Enterprise software and the CMO, CTO, CIO — who does what, who gets the cash, & who’s in charge? VentureBeat Staff Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn This sponsored post is produced by New Relic.
Join us for this live event on Tuesday, June 3, at 10 a.m. Pacific We’re doing social and marketing tech, back office and front office, CRM and HR, finance and enterprise content management. Meanwhile, someone’s still keeping the lights on, and someone’s ensuring privacy regulations and corporate security issues are addressed.
In the new enterprise tech stack, who does what, who makes which decisions; and how do the CTO, CIO, and CMO work together to implement corporate strategy? Register here free of charge.
Speakers: Mike Volpe, CMO, HubSpot Mike is the CMO of HubSpot , a leading inbound marketing and sales platform company based in Cambridge, Mass. Mike joined HubSpot as the company’s fifth employee, and since then the company has grown from 10 customers to more than 11,000 customers and from five employees to nearly 700 employees. Mike graduated from MIT’s Sloan School of Management and Bowdoin College. You can reach him on Twitter at @mvolpe.
Scott Brinker, Co-Founder & CTO, Ion Interactive Scott is the co-founder and CTO of Ion Interactive, a marketing software company that provides a platform for Web-based marketing apps for many of the world’s leading brands. He is also the author of the chief marketing technologist blog Chiefmartec.com , which focuses on strategy, management, and culture at the intersection of marketing and technology. Scott has degrees in computer science from Columbia University and Harvard University, as well as an MBA from MIT. You can reach him on Twitter at @chiefmartec.
Tim Bourgeois, Founder and CEO of Chief Digital Officer Tim is the founder and executive editor of ChiefDigitalOfficer.net.
 He is also a principal at East Coast Catalyst, a digital strategy management consulting firm. Prior to launching ECC, he spent 10 years as CEO of Pixel Bridge, an interactive marketing and Web development firm, which was acquired in 2009.
Moderator: John Koetsier, VP Product, VentureBea t John has run websites with millions of monthly visitors, built mobile apps with hundreds of thousands of downloads, created online learning communities with more than half a million registered users, and eaten a 24-ounce peppercorn steak in one glorious sitting.
He has led product management, spoken at conferences all over the world, blogged for more than a decade, and built his own CMS in PHP. He lives in Vancouver, plays ice hockey, subscribes to the VentureBeat statement of ethics, recently published an iPad app for his kids, and just wrote his first science fiction novel, No Other Gods.
Register today! Sponsored posts are content that has been produced by a company that is either paying for the post or has a business relationship with VentureBeat, and they’re always clearly marked. The content of news stories produced by our editorial team is never influenced by advertisers or sponsors in any way. For more information, contact sales@venturebeat.com.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
