Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages This interactive tour of the Sistine Chapel will mesmerize you Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn You’ll never get to take a photo of the Sistine Chapel, and you’ll probably never get to cross its threshold in person. But now, if you can carve out a few quiet moments in front of your computer, you can take a private tour of the chapel, replete with all the fine art you can handle.
We’re absolutely transfixed by this interactive experience , which brings a 360-degree, zoomable image of the Sistine Chapel to Web users around the world. The chapel is bright and feels almost alive; its walls are bursting with beauty and history; and timeless music washes through your speakers (or headphones or earbuds — you get the idea) as you marvel at one of the most remarkable buildings on Earth.
Above: Zooming in gives you a closer view of the wondrous Sistine Chapel ceiling.
Other areas of the Vatican have photo galleries and written information, but nothing comes close to the virtual tour of the Sistine Chapel.
The site, which was brought to our attention via a Hacker News thread , sheds literal light on what is normally a dark and very crowded room where tourists are given a brief amount of time to take in an extraordinary amount of culture. On the other hand, this site gives you as much time as you could ever want to pore over every detail of the Michelangelo-painted walls and ceilings.
We can’t wait to see if more of the Vatican’s fascinating art and architecture will make its way onto the Web — and onto even more immersive virtual reality devices, perhaps.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
