Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Twitter and Facebook tied in high school popularity contest Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn What has this world become? Teens are leaving Facebook! Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Twitter’s very bad week has a glimmer of hope, thanks to a new study from Harvard’s Institute of Politics that shows teenagers might — just might — be latching on to Twitter.
The Harvard report examines the digital habits of America’s young citizens.
When asked “What is the one website, social network, or app that you could not live without?” Facebook was the clear winner at 24 percent for students of all ages.
Google came in at a distant second with 7 percent, and Twitter was in third place with 3 percent.
But perhaps the most interesting finding was that high schoolers were twice as likely as college students, and 6x more likely than graduate students, to say they couldn’t live without Twitter.
Thirteen percent of high schoolers can’t live without Twitter — exactly the same proportion as say that about Facebook.
This could be good news for Twitter, which only managed to bump its number of users by 5 percent (to 255 million) from December (when it had 241 million users).
Maybe high schoolers like Twitter because Facebook is soooo last generation, or because they’re particularly drawn to professing their love of Justin Bieber in less than 140 characters.
Either way, Twitter execs may find some solace that its youngest users like it best.
Another interesting finding is that while many of the social sites have a liberal bias , Republicans are totally winning at Pinterest (40 percent Republican vs. 32 percent Democrats). Happily, both Facebook and Snapchat are bastions of bi-partisan goodness.
You can read the full report here.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
