Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Instagram announced nothing today at Facebook’s long-awaited conference Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
SAN FRANCISCO — At Facebook’s f8 developer conference, Instagram owner Facebook announced absolutely nothing new about the photo-sharing app during the opening keynote.
Despite Instagram now having over 200 million monthly active users, up from the mere 22 million it had when Facebook acquired it two years, Zuckerberg and team announced nothing.
However, a third-party Instagram client, Flow for Instagram , is not only present at Facebook’s developer conference, but it just released a new version of its iPad app at noon. While Instagram doesn’t seem to be making news today, this app is.
Flow for Instagram brings viewing of the service’s photos to the iPad, which is not currently available as an official app for the service.
This past March, Instagram signed its first advertising deal with an agency, Omnicon. The deal is for a year-long commitment for up to $100 million in advertising on Instagram. Companies working with Omnicon’s media and creative agencies can now tap into Instagram as an additional medium for their ad campaigns. This deal happened after Instagram introduced support for videos, which commands the highest engagement and monetization, as we previously reported.
At the very least, we expected more news about Instagram — but we got zilch during the keynote.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
