Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Facebook logins are going anonymous Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
SAN FRANCISCO — Want to use a new app or website? Want to log in? Maybe with Facebook? Now, you no longer have to share your whole life just by logging in with Facebook.
At Facebook’s f8 developer conference, we learned today that the company is making big changes in how it shares your information around the Web.
“We serve a lot of different communities, but one is by far the most important: the people that use our products,” said Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg during his keynote. “It’s important that in every single thing we do, we put people first.” That means the company is going to make a huge bid for your trust by making your data more secure. When you use Facebook to log in to another app, you’ll now see a whole checklist of every bit of data that app wants to use — and you can pick and choose which bits you want to share.
You can even login anonymously.
Facebook’s current active user count sits at an unparalleled 1.28 billion people — that includes more than a billion people who access Facebook from their mobile phones every month.
And of course, all those eyeballs mean big money for the social media company. In the first three months of 2014 alone, Facebook raked in a whopping $2.5 billion in revenue.
 That number makes up almost 18 percent of the worldwide ad spend, according to research firm eMarketer.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
