Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Yahoo’s mobile video streaming app is now on Android too Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Yahoo Screen has arrived on Android to provide its users with video streaming from various entertainment channels — finally.
The Android app was debuted today , following Yahoo Screen’s launch on iOS last September.
Through the app, users can stream videos that are currently distributed on Yahoo. This includes a wide selection of Saturday Night Live videos , original Yahoo web shows such as Jack Black’s Ghost Ghirls and John Stamos’ Losing It With John Stamos , and clips and episodes from The Colbert Report , The Daily Show, and series from MTV, Spike, and other Viacom properties.
Yahoo inked the Saturday Night Live partnership in April 2013, as we previously reported.
Unfortunately for Yahoo, competitors Hulu and Netflix have long been available on Android, so it’s a bit late joining the party here.
Yahoo Screen has also recently launched on Apple TV and Roku.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
