Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages TechMedia Network rebrands as Purch, nears $100M in revenue Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Digital publication network Purch , formerly known as TechMedia Network, shared some interesting financial statistics today that show the company is growing at a steady pace.
In addition to operating numerous news sites, like TopTenReviews and Tom’s Hardware, Purch operates a platform that matches up content, advertising, and product recommendations within news and review publications. The platform’s goal is to increased engagement from readers, who may then purchase products or services based on that experience.
The company told VentureBeat that it has close to $100 million in annual revenue this year, and seeing annual growth of more than 20 percent. A Purch spokesperson also said the company is profitable, and on track to continue profitability indefinitely.
Purch also claims that it has the largest audience of any site in the tech vertical, which would mean that it’s bigger than CBS-owned CNet and Ziff Davis. We haven’t been able to verify that claim.
Part of the Purch’s success could be due to Purch’s (then TMN’s) purchase of Bestofmedia last year — which gave it access to well-trafficked publications like Tom’s Hardware, Tom’s Guide, and Tom’s IT Pro — as well as its acquisition of B2B-focused BuyerZone earlier this year.
Today Purch also announced that it’s signed an exclusive partnership with digital publisher Mobile Nations, which runs Android Central, iMore, WPCentral, Connectedly, and others. The partnership will bring Purch’s content and commerce recommendation platform to Mobile Nation sites.
Founded in 2003, the New York-based company has raised a total of $40.5 million in funding to date. Purch currently has over 350 employees in nine offices across the globe.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
