Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Disney Infinity: Marvel Super Heroes is due out later this year as its own starter pack Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Iron Man in the upcoming Disney Infinity: Marvel Superheroes.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Disney Infinity is about to go super.
The Walt Disney Company announced Disney Infinity: Marvel Super Heroes at a press event this morning in Los Angeles. This game is due out this fall as part of Disney Infinity 2.0, which is a new disc and not an update to the original package. It features characters from The Avengers , Guardians of the Galaxy , and more, and it is coming to both the Xbox One and PlayStation 4 and the older consoles.
“This has forced us to think very differently about the gameplay,” Disney Interactive president Jimmy Pitaro said during the event. “We had to create new experiences that matches up with these characters and their unique qualities.” Disney already showed off characters like Iron Man, Captain America, and The Hulk in action along with villains like Loki. Disney brought in The Avengers writer Brian Michael Bendis to write the story because it wanted it to “feel and taste like” the comics and cinematic universe.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The new Disney Infinity is also compatible with all of the original Infinity content and characters, but Disney hasn’t specified whether any of the new content will work with 1.0. We’ve reached out to the publisher for an answer.
In addition to new characters and Marvel-inspired environments, Disney’s development partner, Avalanche, will release new “game pieces.” These are physical toys that players can place on the portal alongside characters that will enable gamers to play guided experiences in familiar genres. One game piece opens up a tower defense that has players fighting off waves of frost giants from the Thor comics using strategically placed weapons. The other is a dungeon-crawler that will have players slowly fighting their way through levels filled with enemies. Both of those game discs are included in the Marvel Super Heroes starter kit.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
