Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Music app Bloom.fm shuts down after investor yanks funding Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Update 12:31 p.m.: We spoke with Bloom.fm founder Oleg Fomenko by phone.
Music streaming startup Bloom.fm announced today that it is shutting down immediately following a highly publicized ban from Apple’s iAds advertising network.
 The startup, which offered both Pandora- and Spotify-like features in the U.K. exclusively , announced the news on Twitter.
In a brief statement on its site, Bloom.fm claims the shutdown is due to the company’s investor, who “unexpectedly pulled” the company’s funds. In a call with VentureBeat, founder Oleg Fomenko shares that the company’s sole investor was a TNT , a Russian television channel that withdrew following an organizational change. “It’s a bit of a surprise given the momentum that we have,” said Fomenko.
“It’s a shame that it happened exactly at a time when we could have sold — if we had the runway,” Fomenko explains.
We’ll keep this short because we’re pretty shell-shocked. It’s game over for Bloom.fm http://t.co/LX9rR3TxK3 pic.twitter.com/083H3o1Bq2 — Bloom.fm (@bloomfm) April 30, 2014 As for the company’s iAds controversy, Bloom.fm alleges that Apple banned the startup from its ad network due to its similarity with iTunes Radio.
Here’s the shutdown statement in full: We’ll keep this short because we’re pretty shell-shocked.
It’s game over for Bloom.fm.
Our investor, who’s been along for the ride since day one, has unexpectedly pulled our funding.
It’s come so out of the blue that we don’t have time to find new investment. So, with enormous regret, we have to shut up shop.
This is a poetically crappy turn of events as our young business was showing real promise. Our apps and web player are looking super-nice, and we had 1,158,914 registered users in a little over a year. Yep.
A massive thanks to everyone that helped us get this far. We’re absolutely gutted. But it’s been a real pleasure.
Fomenko shares that if another investor steps up and can “cough up a considerable amount of money,” this could save the service.
Bloom.fm first launched back in January 2013 and was available on both iOS and Android. A Web app was slated to launch this year.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
