Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft boosts the IQ of its Bing desktop search tool for Windows 8 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Just as Microsoft has been smartening up its mobile experience with the Cortana virtual assistant , it’s now making the underlying Windows 8 operating system more intuitive.
Today the tech giant said it has improved the operating system’s Bing-powered search function. The new search engine will bring up the right features even when people don’t type in their proper names.
And even if you don’t spell things correctly, Microsoft will have you covered. The search box will account for typical spelling mistakes, according to a blog post on the move.
Other web companies, like Facebook and Google, have been adding natural-language savvy to their applications in the past couple of years. Even business-intelligence startups like DataRPM are trying to make their tools easier for non-technical people to use by adding natural-language understanding.
Microsoft has bolstered other applications with natural-language sweetness in the past: Consider recent updates to Power BI for Office 365 and Xbox One.
 Now the company’s focus on natural-language tech appears to be touching more and more properties.
And that accords with the “One Microsoft” strategy the company revealed last year.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
