Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Facebook’s Parse now lets your apps work offline Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn SAN FRANCISCO — At Facebook’s f8 developer conference, Parse had some big announcements: a handful of pretty useful new features, new service plans, and — oh, yeah — the capability to build apps that work offline.
As Parse chief Ilya Sukhar said onstage today, many users are offline by default. And if your app only works with an Internet connection, you’re missing out on those people — and any revenue they generate for you.
Parse is a mobile service for developers. It provides app analytics, push notification services, and Parse Core, a cloud-based product with features for data storage, social logins, etc. Facebook acquired Parse almost exactly one year ago.
Parse is launching an offline data store , which will enable Parse apps to function while the end user isn’t connected to any networks.
Today, the service has added growth dashboard. “It tells you how you’re doing — are people coming in the door?” said Sukhar. There’s also a handy retention graph feature.
“We came in the door with 60,000 apps,” said Sukhar. Today, he said, Parse supports 260,000 apps and has added 140,000 devs this year.
Also today, Sukahr said, devs can get unlimited Parse Core service for up to 30 requests per second, unlimited push notifications for up to a million recipients, and unlimited data points for its analytics services.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
