Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Facebook launches App Links, enabling developers to link mobile apps together Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Today at its now annual f8 developer conference in San Francisco, Facebook has announced the launch of App Links , a tool that enables developers to link from one native mobile app to another.
Facebook’s goal is to make mobile apps feel less isolated from one another by creating a universal standard. App Links also enables web apps to link directly to native apps.
Here’s a look at the new service, which supports Android, Windows Phone, and iOS: On launch, participating services include Spotify, Pinterest, Vimeo, Hulu, Flickr, and more.
Observers have long-expected Facebook to launch a mobile ad network at f8, extending its news feed and page ads far beyond its internal social network. Additional leaks include a potential e-commerce product and a new way of linking between apps on mobile devices.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
