Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Rdio launches free app to pump your favorite tunes to your home speakers Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Rdio is the latest major music service to launch a native application for Google’s Chromecast media streaming stick.
The app, which is available for free today, lets you access the streaming music service from your mobile device and then push the experience to your TV — or more importantly, your home entertainment setup’s speakers. All you need to do is fire up the Rdio mobile app and cast it to your Chromecast-enabled TV.
Like with most Chromecast apps, the beauty is in the navigation, which will definitely be a good thing for a service like Rdio that requires you to shuffle the media you’re consuming often. Rdio launched functionality for a free ad-supported radio version of its service, which may require users to “fine tune” their musical preferences over the course of time. And having your phone handle the navigation (but not the audio), will be a good thing.
The new Chromecast app’s functionality is, of course, built into other mobile apps for iOS and Android, and should be available later today for all users — meaning those who subscribe to Rdio’s premium music service as well as users accessing the free radio service.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
