Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Machinima names new CEO in wake of funding for fanboy and fangirl video-entertainment network Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Machinima app on Xbox One.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Machinima, a leader in videos for fanboys and fangirls and gamers, has named television veteran Chad Gutstein as its new chief executive.
Above: Chad Gutstein, CEO of Machinima.
Gutstein, former chief operating officer of the Ovation television network, will replace Machinima cofounder Allen DeBevoise, who announced last fall he was searching for a replacement.
“Machinima is ready for the next level, and Chad has all of the unique qualities we were seeking in a new CEO to bring us there,” said DeBevoise in a statement. “His fresh and respected outlook, deep knowledge of the TV and digital business, and proven track record will all benefit Machinima as we enter our next phase of growth. Chad’s most recent experience building Ovation’s brand and audience, and translating the value of its audience and programming to TV distributors and tier one advertisers, will help Machinima exponentially accelerate its mission.” As Machinima’s new CEO, Gutstein will over see Machinima’s strategy for all aspects of its business, which is famous for user-generated shows about video games and talkshows such as Inside Gaming.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! “I’m humbled by the opportunity and excited by the promise at Machinima,” said Gutstein in a statement. “Machinima is a pioneer in the online video space and virtually invented the MCN business model. It isn’t every day one is offered the chance to grow a global, category leading consumer TV brand with a massive and highly engaged audience. We plan to profitably grow our business with engaging original programming, nurturing the best affiliate channel partner program, and creating innovative solutions to help marketers reach our young, male, and highly mobile audience.” Machinima recently raised $18 million from Warner Bros. Entertainment and existing investors MK Capital, Redpoint Ventures, and Google Capital. Machinima also laid off dozens of employees in a restructuring.
“As Machinima’s newest investor, we are impressed with Chad’s experience leading a premium content business which built a brand with value to both audiences and advertisers. He brings great energy and dedication and we’re excited to partner with him and the team at Machinima,” said Thomas Gewecke, chief digital officer of Warner Bros. Entertainment.
Before joining Machinima, Gutstein was COO at Ovation, America’s arts television network. He helped grow the network from five million households to nearly 55 million.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
