Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Warface already has 25 million players before it even hits free-to-play-crazy China and Japan Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A soldier fights a mech.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Crytek has a free-to-play winner with PC game Warface, which has just surpassed 25 million registered users.
Warface is an online first-person shooter that Crytek first released in Russia, then in North America, Europe, Turkey, Korea, and Brazil. Its growth shouldn’t slow down anytime soon, since it will come to China later this year, followed by Japan and Taiwan. Densely populated China and Japan have both been very successful countries for other free-to-play games, and Warface could gain tens of millions of new players if it catches on.
Regarding the latest milestone, Crytek’s chief executive and creative director, Cevat Yerly, said, “It is a fantastic achievement for our franchise and for our teams, and we’d like to thank Warface players everywhere for their support. Warface is part of our games-as-service model, which means the game thrives off and revolves around our community.” Like other free-to-play games, Warface can be downloaded and played for free and offers in-game content such as upgrades and customizations for a price. But Yerly has a vision of distinguishing its games in the free-to-play market. “We decided five or six years ago that we want to marry the quality of triple-A games with the business model of free-to-play,” he told GamesBeat last February. “Our primary goal is to make triple-A free-to-play games for the world market and transition entirely to that.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Warface was formerly only available on PC until its Xbox 360 Edition entered open beta testing just a few days ago on March 26.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
