Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google’s Pokémon Master job-opening April Fools’ joke is actually a real game Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Find all 150 Pokemon using the Google Map app.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Google is building self-driving cars and wearable computers — and now, it is getting into the pocket-monster business.
The search giant released an April Fools’ Day joke today that has its Maps team inviting the public to traverse the globe to capture Nintendo’s fictional Pokémon creatures. The company updated its Google Maps app with a minigame that has players searching all across the map to find 150 of the creatures. You don’t actually have to go to the physical locations, and you can instead just search on the map, click on the character, and capture them.
Here’s Google’s video explaining the process: Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! You can start playing now by updating your Google Maps app, tapping on the search bar, and hitting the “Press Start” button that appears. I’ve already caught 15. I even found one hiding inside Tesla Motors.
The search conglomerate claims it will invite applicants who catch all 150 Pokémon to its headquarters in California to participate in a final round of hiring. The winner will start at the company on Sept. 1 — according to the video.
You have until 2 p.m. Wednesday to find them. Get to catching ’em all.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
