Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages CrowdIt is bringing the suits — aka startup advisors — to the crowdfunding table Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Would you like a mentor with that crowdfunding campaign of yours? If so, crowdfunding site CrowdIt is now providing just that.
The startup is rolling out its “Suits” program, which provides experts ranging from lawyers and accountants to accredited investors and consultants. These experts then act as advisors and resources before, during, and after the fundraising.
Unlike crowdfunding competitors such as Kickstarter and Indiegogo, which focus on the fundraising part of the launching and growing of a project, CrowdIt believes there should be a community that entrepreneurs can be part of even after they’ve gathered their funds, as we previously reported.
Suits is a major piece of this bigger vision.
“What’s been missing isn’t the focus on financial help but ‘people’ assistance. Any successful small business knows that it takes a village of experienced professionals in various capacities to turn a dream into a reality,” said chief executive Jason Graf in an official statement.
In a way, CrowdIt is creating a way for entrepreneurs to get all the benefits of traditional startup fundraising — money, hands-on advisors, a support system — but suited (pun!) for the crowdfunding generation.
Still, CrowdIt’s advisors’ motivations might be slightly different than in traditional setups, where advisors take equity in return for their boundless wisdom. These “Suits” are volunteers.
But while they’re not receiving any payments from the entrepreneurs, they do “have exclusive access to projects before they go live on CrowdIt.com. They also can direct message with the project owners themselves. … They have opportunities to advertise/market on the site, they can build credibility for themselves and their business to position as thought leaders in their respective fields, and much more,” Graf said in a statement to VentureBeat.
“Furthermore, business professionals can cultivate business leads by offering advice and resources before, during, and after the funding event to gain trust from the project owners and set up deals for ancillary service support going forward,” added Graf.
Nevertheless, CrowdIt seems committed to helping its entrepreneurs have the best chances of succeeding, and benevolent advisors are quite likely to join the program.
Paul Freeman and Markus Pope co-founded the Springfield, Missouri-based company, which has raised an undisclosed amount of funding from Baron VC.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
