Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Watch out, Cisco: Arista Networks files for an IPO of up to $200M Christina Farr Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn An Arista Networks switch Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Networking firm Arista filed for an initial public offering for up to $200 million in stock.
Arista provides software and support to its customers, some of the world’s most prominent Internet firms, to help them handle web traffic. The firm launched in 2008 to bring extremely high-speed 10 gigabit switches, at that time typically seen in laboratories and data centers, to the mass market.
The firm now counts the BBC, StumbleUpon, and Flurry among its customers.
Arista, a prominent rival to Cisco Systems, is hoping to capitalize on Wall Street’s furor for cloud software companies. Last week, cloud storage Box revealed plans to raise as much as $250 million in its IPO, despite intensifying competition in the space.
Arista’s chief executive Jayshree Ullal is the largest individual shareholder. Ullal, a former Cisco executive, has held the top position since 2008. The company was cofounded by electrical engineer Andy Bechtolsheim, who also helped found Sun Microsystems while a PhD student at Stanford.
Morgan Stanley and Citigroup are leading the offering, the financial filing shows. The firm will list its stock on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol ANET.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
