Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VentureBeat is looking for ace tech reporters in S.F. and NYC Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A typical day at the VB office is just like this, except with more quips and better tech.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
VentureBeat has immediate openings for experienced reporters with a track record of getting scoops.
We’re looking for someone, either in San Francisco or New York, who loves covering the business of technology but isn’t infatuated with it. Someone with a critical eye, an ability to develop sources, and a track record of breaking news.
Ideally, you’ll have experience — and an interest in — covering health tech and health IT.
But most important, we want someone who is a reporter first and a tech reporter second: A journalist who’s eager to go out and get the stories that other people don’t have.
Do you like talking to people, meeting entrepreneurs, and interviewing product managers and chief information officers to find out the intricacies of their technologies? Are you driven to write fast, be first, and be the best? Then we want to hear from you.
VentureBeat offers the chance to work with a small team of writers who are committed to journalistic excellence, with lots of hands-on editing support and a great team atmosphere. We offer benefits including health care and stock options. And our offices are awesome.
If this sounds like the kind of job you’d be excited about, write to me and pitch me on why you’d be a great choice. Include links to no more than five clips that show your best tech-related news writing skills.
A résumé or LinkedIn profile is also helpful to give a sense of your background. Please put “tech reporter” in the subject line to ensure that it doesn’t get lost in my inbox.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
