Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Imprivata, a provider of health IT security services, files for IPO Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A nurse demonstrates Imprivata's single-sign on with a proximity card reader attached to a nursing station laptop.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Startups that provide IT services to health care companies continue to thrive.
The latest company to cash in on that trend is Imprivata , which just announced plans to make an initial public offering of stock on the NYSE. Imprivata stands to raise $115 million in the IPO.
Imprivata’s products include a single sign-on tool, Imprivata OneSign, for managing access to health care systems. The company also offers a workflow tool and tools for secure communications, including texting securely. With OneSign, instead of logging on with a username and password, clinicians can log on to their computer systems using fingerprint readers, proximity cards, smartcards, or tokens. The company claims, in a filing with the SEC, that some of its customers have seen their health care workers save 45 minutes per shift thanks to its technology.
Imprivata provides services to more than 900 health care organizations in 18 countries, representing 2.6 million people using its products, according to the company’s web site. But while health care is the company’s main focus, it says that an additional 400 non-health care organizations, representing 740,000 workers, also use its single sign-on solution, including financial services and government agencies.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! It integrates with most major electronic medical record systems (EMRs), such as Epic, Allscripts, Siemens, Meditech, and McKesson; as well as with IT vendors such as Citrix, VMware, Dell, and HP. It booked $71 million in sales for 2013, for a net loss of about $10.5 million.
The company is based in Lexington, Mass., and was founded in 2001. It has raised $23.9 million to date, most recently with a $15 million round led by SAP Ventures in 2008.
Imprivata qualifies as an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act, which means that, until it reaches $1 billion in annual revenue, it will have reduced reporting requirements relative to other public companies.
View Imprivata’s S-1 filing here.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
