Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Hulu sells its ‘Hulu Japan’ service to Nippon TV Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Streaming video service Hulu is selling its Japanese sister service to Nippon TV, the company announced today. Financial terms of the deal have not been disclosed.
Hulu first launched its “ Hulu Japan ” service nearly a year ago, and it was the company’s first major push into an international market — not counting Hulu Latino, which is available to viewers in Mexico as well as the U.S. The ad-supported Hulu Japan service provided users with unlimited access to over a thousand movies and more than 13,000 episodes of TV shows and anime for about $19 per month.
“We have now reached a point in the growth of the business in Japan where we feel the best path forward is to sell the company to a strategic buyer,” said Hulu CEO Mike Hopkins in a blog post.
 “I’m confident that the Hulu business in Japan is in very good hands, and Nippon TV will take the service to new heights, with the added benefit of allowing us to focus on our growing business here in the U.S.” The buyer, Nippon TV, is one of Japan’s oldest television networks. The deal also includes an agreement that will see Nippon license the Hulu brand, meaning the service likely isn’t going to get a new name. Nippon will also be bringing its own television programming to the service as part of the deal.
While Hopkins didn’t discuss Hulu’s overall strategy, the sale of its Japanese service doesn’t mean the company isn’t interested in expanding to other markets around the world. As Netflix has shown , there’s still a demand for popular U.S. programming in other countries. Since Hulu is co-owned by three of the largest U.S. TV networks, it may still have an advantage when it comes to forging licensing agreements should it pursue markets in Europe, among other regions.
Hulu declined comment to VentureBeat about its future expansion plans.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
