Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Hobby? What hobby? Apple sold $1B worth of Apple TVs in 2013 Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Once upon a time Apple referred to its set-top box gadget the Apple TV as a “hobby” of sorts, but times have certainly changed.
Today, Apple CEO Tim Cook revealed the company made $1 billion in sales of its Apple TV product.
During a meeting with shareholders, the company also recently gave the Apple TV its own product page alongside iPods, iPads, iPhones, and Macs, which could be a result of the record high sales. And over the last few months, Apple has subtly hinted that its preparing something big in the TV space.
“We’re working on some things that are extensions of things you can see and some that you can’t see,” Cook said during the meeting.
Cook’s comments could basically mean anything, but Apple’s loyal fandom could easily interpret that to mean the company is preparing to launch a new version of its Apple TV in the near future. Such a move would certainly make sense. It has been nearly a year since Apple released new version, after all.
As for what a new Apple TV might include, rumors have pointed to an integrated Wi-Fi router, a TV tuner to pick up local broadcasts, and more support for iOS games.
Via Reuters VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
