Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Uncanny X-Men: Days of Future Past getting mobile game — but it’s not related to the movie Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn The Uncanny X-Men: Days of Future Past is getting a mobile-game release.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Hope you’re feeling tolerant, because we’re gonna have to deal with a bunch of those stinking mutants later this year.
Marvel announced today that it is working with developer Glitchsoft to release a mobile game based on the “Days of Future Past” story arc from The Uncanny X-Men comic series. That’s the same plot Fox is basing its upcoming X-Men film on, but Glitchsoft’s game and Fox’s X-Men: Days of Future Past are not connected with one another even if both are due out in May. Uncanny X-Men: Days of Future Past, as Glitchsoft is calling its game, is a side-scrolling 2D action title focused on combat.
Above: The original cover of X-Men #141.
“Marvel has created some of the most revered characters of all time,” Glitchsoft founder Wes Tam said in a statement. “We are excited to work with Marvel to bring the Uncanny X-Men characters to mobile gaming. Being lifelong fans, it is an incredible opportunity and even larger responsibility to create a game that honors the property. Our goal is to deliver a mobile game that core fans will truly embrace.” Marvel debuted the two-issue “Days of Future Past” storyline in 1981. It revealed a future Earth of 2013 where drone robots patrol the entire U.S. like a police state and hunt mutants. X-Men member Kitty Pryde, who can phase through solid materials, traveled back in time to avert the dystopia. This story has established itself as a fan favorite, and readers even voted the first half of the arc, X-Men No. 1 141, as the 25th greatest Marvel comic book issue of all time.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Glitchsoft has previously worked on games like Star Marine: Infinite Ammo , Destructopus: Total Rampage , and He-Man: The Most Powerful Game in the Universe. Its Uncanny X-Men game will likely resemble its He-Man game.
“Glitchsoft came to us with a pedigree of rock-solid game development, strong production values, and a passion for the Uncanny X-Men franchise that was impossible to ignore,” Marvel vice president of game product TQ Jefferson. “It’s these sorts of qualities that we look for in a partner, and we couldn’t be more excited to bring our version of ‘Days of Future Past’ to mobile.” GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
