Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Fantasy leagues are no longer for sports nerds — they’re for e-sports now, too Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Move over, sports fans. It’s time to welcome the e-sports crowd to the world of fantasy leagues.
The upcoming ASUS ROG DreamLeague Season #1 tournament for Dota 2 will be the first competitive video game tournament to have official fantasy leagues. Anyone who buys a $10 digital ticket to watch the event may create a Fantasy Dota league, to which they can invite five people (for a total of six competitors). Fantasy leagues, commonly based on conventional sports, are tournaments where participants draft real professional competitors on fictional teams and score points based on their players’ performances.
Dota 2, developed by Valve, is a free-to-play game in the multiplayer online battle arena genre. It tasks two teams of five players with destroying a key building at the other team’s base. It has become one of the premier e-sport games, with many professional players and a large community of fans.
Ticket buyers will be able to join as many leagues as they want to, but they can’t create more than one per ticket. They’ll need to set a time for a Live Draft in which all members in their league will take turns choosing professional players to add to their teams of eight. Only one team per league may own each player.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Matches begin on March 3 and follow a Round Robin format that matches each team up against another from its league every week. Whoever has the most points earned by all of their pro players at the end of the week wins. The scoring system is as follows: 0.3 points per kill -0.3 points per death 0.15 points per assist 0.003 points per last hit 0.002 points per gold per minute 0.002 points per XP per minute 0.07 points per seconds of enemy stuns 0.0004 points per allied healing done 1 point tower kill 1 point per Roshan kill You can find a lot of more detailed information in this FAQ from onGamers.com.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
