Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Family Sharing lets up to 10 others play your Steam games — anywhere Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn This is how shared games will appear on your Steam account.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Interested in checking out a game on Steam but want to try before you buy? Now a friend can share it with you.
In fact, you won’t even need to buy it at all, since you can play your friend’s game as much as you want while logged into your own Steam account. Steam Family Sharing enables account holders to share their game libraries with up to five relatives and guests on up to 10 devices. First, the person sharing must authorize their guest. Then they can share their library in its entirety (it’s all or nothing) with that person.
Only one account can play a game at a time, eliminating the possibility that you could use the feature for multiplayer. If you want to play Portal 2 co-op with your brother, you’ll each still need your own copy. Previously, the only way to play games that you didn’t purchase with your own account was to play in offline mode.
Consoles like the Xbox 360 and the PlayStation 3 have permitted multiple users to share games on a local system for years, so in that way, Steam is playing catch up. On the other hand, Family Sharing shares games remotely, regardless of location, as long as they’re being played on one of the 10 authorized systems. This feature makes Steam more sharing-friendly than the previously mentioned consoles as well as the newer PlayStation 4 and Xbox One.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The Xbox One was actually planned to have a very similar family sharing method for its digital games. It was scrapped because it was tied to terribly unpopular digital rights management (DRM) plans.
Here is the official announcement from Valve with a FAQ that has more specific information.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
