Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Angry Birds creator wants to publish ‘edutainment’ games for kids Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Angry Birds in the latest game from Rovio.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
I think it was Whitney Houston who said, “I believe the children are our future.” Now, we just need our game developers to teach them well and let them lead the way.
Angry Birds developer Rovio revealed today that is planning to expand its third-party publishing efforts to include educational games for kids, according to Pocket Gamer.
 Rovio will seek out developers making entertaining apps that are also informative or instructional for children 3 to 12. The Angry Birds studio will then publish those games under its Rovio Stars label. Smartphone and tablet use is growing more common among young children, according to industry intelligence firm The NPD Group.
 Educational apps is one way that companies can tap that market in a way that parents might approve of.
“When kids are bored, their learning plummets,” reads a Rovio statement. “When they’re engaged, anything’s possible, so we’re looking for new game ideas to entertain kids and motivate them to learn. Games that parents can also feel good about.” We’ve reached out to Rovio to ask if it will advertise its other, less-educational titles within these new releases. We’ll update this story with its response.
Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Rovio expects studios will want to work with it due to its huge reach in the app markets on Android, iOS, and other mobile operating systems. The developer boasts more than 2 billion total downloads throughout its 11-year history. It moved into third-party publishing last year, and it has helped games like Juice Cubes rack up more than 5 million downloads on iOS and Android.
At the upcoming Game Developer Conference happening in San Francisco next month, Rovio will host the Big Indie Pitch Jr. panel, where studios can explain their educational games with the hope of getting published through Rovio Stars.
GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
