Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Mt. Gox files for bankruptcy protection after losing $473M worth of Bitcoins, has $63M in debt Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A physical Bitcoin on a variety of currency The rumors were true: Mt. Gox lost a boatload of Bitcoins.
The former popular Bitcoin exchange, which shut down suddenly this week to “protect the site” and its users, announced this morning that it is officially filing for bankruptcy protection, the Wall Street Journal reports.
In a Tokyo District Court this morning, Mt. Gox representatives said that the exchange lost nearly all 750,000 of its customers’ Bitcoins, as well as 100,000 of its own. At current Bitcoin values, the loss is worth around $473 million. It’s unclear what exactly led to Mt. Gox’s fall, but it’s reportedly a combination of hacks and bumbling management.
The site previously used to handle around 80 percent of Bitcoin transactions, and according to its lawyer, it currently holds around $63.6 million in debt.
“There was some weakness in the system, and the bitcoins have disappeared. I apologize for causing trouble,” Mt. Gox founder Mark Karpelès said during a news conference at the court, per the WSJ.
Karpelès spent much of the week in hiding as Mt. Gox crumbled, and at the same time others in the Bitcoin industry quickly distances themselves from Mt. Gox’s failure. Karpelès resigned on Sunday from the board of the Bitcoin Foundation, which helps to guide and promote Bitcoin, following reports of the massive loss. Additionally, competing Bitcoin exchanges Coinbase, Kraken, and Bitstamp.net condemned the site’s shutdown.
As Mt. Gox’s situation comes into focus, the questions around what it all means for the wider Bitcoin community remain. Bitcoin prices have fallen around 4 percent since yesterday, according to Coindesk, but they’re still worth a hefty $550.97 per coin. The Mt. Gox fiasco is a warning shot to other exchanges, but it also serves as a big blow to Bitcoin’s mainstream perception — something that may be difficult to repair.
Catch a brief glimpse of Karpelès at this morning’s conference from this Asahi News Network segment (it’s entirely in Japanese): VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
