Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Microsoft may sell Windows 8.1 for cheap — or even give it away Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn A leaked screenshot of Windows 8.1 Update 1 from Russian leaker "WZor," prior to its release.
Microsoft really wants to get Windows 8.1 in consumers’ hands.
To boost the number of folks using the operating system, Microsoft is reportedly considering giving it away for free or selling it at a very low cost, according to The Verge.
If it slashes the price tag of Windows (and Windows Phone OS) to zero, the Redmond-based company may look to service add-ons to pick up some of the slack — like additional OneDrive cloud storage. Microsoft is also positioning Bing as a platform it can monetize in the future.
It makes sense, then, that the SKU at the center of Microsoft’s monetization experiment is “Windows 8.1 with Bing,” a new version of the upcoming Windows 8.1 update revealed by Windows leaker WZor (and reported by ZDNet ).
If Microsoft indeed chops its OS licensing fee for Windows device makers, as some recent reports have suggested it will, Microsoft will have to make a tough choice. It currently bundles a bunch of services with Windows: OneDrive, various Bing services, Xbox music streaming, the core Office apps (for RT users). Will it begin charging for those services to make up a more substantial amount of lost revenue for OS sales, or just eat the cost? Either way, Microsoft’s Windows experiments reflect a change of thinking in Redmond. Its search platform is being perceived differently, as a sort of engine powering Windows and Windows Phone. That’s a bit less surprising when you consider that former Bing chief Satya Nadella is now heading the company.
A Microsoft spokesperson declined to comment on this story.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
