Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Google launches Scraper Report to report scammy sites, gets reported as best example Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
If you publish quality web content, you’re going to get scraped. Unsavory characters who want content on which they can sell advertising spider your content, lift it, and publish it as their own.
That’s how I write on such esteemed sites as da6nci.com.
Yesterday, Google announced a tool to combat that, called the Scraper Report, which allows legitimate site owners to report sites that are stealing their content and publishing it as their own. SEO and Google expert Matt Cutts announced it via Twitter, and as ad expert Larry Kim of WordStream noticed , hilarity ensued.
Because, according to some, Google is the biggest and best scraper site on the planet.
Dan Barker, an e-commerce and digital marketing expert, pointed out via a simple screenshot that Google scrapes vast swathes of the Internet, especially Wikipedia. Kim retweeted it — the first to do so — and thousands followed. As of Friday morning, Barker’s original tweet has over 14,000 retweets and almost 12,000 favorites.
One joker, Mariano Amartino, had an interesting idea of what to do with the tweet: @danbarker @mattcutts LOL… I´ll make a tshirt of this and take it to the next “AdSense Partners Summit” :P — Mariano Amartino (@amartino) February 27, 2014 The key point here, of course, is not just the immediate comic value of Barker’s response to Matt Cutts, who commands almost god-like reverence and fear among search engine optimization and online marketing aficionados. The key point is that Barker hit on precisely the pain point that online marketers are feeling vis-a-vis Google, which by far dominates the search landscape and therefore sits at the epicenter of every search marketer’s world.
With its constant algorithm updates that attempt to improve the web search experience for most of us, Google inevitably hurts some sites on a regular basis — such as JC Penney a number of years ago, which the search giant whacked for scammy-looking links. Rap Genius found itself on the wrong side of Google’s wrath for much the same reason just recently.
Most of the time, the results are probably better for most, but sometimes Google’s actions seem arbitrary, self-serving, and unfair.
In this case, Barker is perhaps suggesting that Google take some of its own medicine.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
