Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Funding daily: Restaurants and robots Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn It was a fairly slow Thursday for deals, with less than a handful of startups announcing funding today.
We young companies net funding for things such as consumer applications and new business software services. The coolest among them? A crime-fighting robot from Knightscope, which secured $1 million from a Japanese telco.
Here’s the full list of startups that gained fresh capital today: Clearslide nets $50M for its WebEx killer for sales The San Francisco-based software company, which today announced $50 million in new financing , makes cloud-based presentation tools for sales and marketing teams. But unlike WebEx, GoToMeeting, or PowerPoint, it has all sorts of analytics capabilities built into it, so salespeople (and their bosses) can see what their clients are looking at, for how long, what they’re interacting with, and so on. The Social+Capital Partnership led the round.
Read the full story on VentureBeat.
Bitium lands $6.5 million for its single sign-on for cloud apps Bitium announced that it had raised a $6.5 million first round of funding led by Polaris Partners. The startup’s approach is to give its customers a single sign-on for as many as 1,500 different cloud applications. Bitium will compete with plenty of rivals in this “Identity Management” sector, such as Ping Identity and Okta.
Dining payments startup Dash raises $1.2M to expand in N.Y. & launch in Chicago Tired of waiting for the check when dining out? Dash just raised $1.2 million to make that a thing of the past. Along with the fresh capital, the New York City-based Dash is launching a redesigned app for iOS 7, including a new payments flow, and iBeacon integration.
Read the full story on VentureBeat.
Crime-fighting robot maker Knightscope scores million-dollar seed round Acting like RoboCop ’s little brother and looking like R2-D2 ’s cousin, the K5 crime-fighting robot could be the first in a new wave of Robots-as-a-Service. Proud parent Knightscope is riding that wave, announcing this week that it is oversubscribed on its million-dollar seed round. The largest investor in the seed round is NTT DoCoMo Ventures, part of the Japanese telecommunications giant.
Read the full story on VentureBeat.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
