Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages U.K. working to unblock charities, educational sites barred by its web filters Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
The U.K.’s “child safety” firewall is coming into full effect. And it’s a disaster.
See, the Internet filters don’t just block porn: The ISPs have cut off access to a whole host of charities, educational sites, and other seemingly random sites and services their algorithms deem objectionable.
The U.K. government says it’s now constructing a list of sites accidentally blocked by the filters to ensure they’re whitelisted. It’s also devising a standardized reporting method for site operators who think their content has been wrongly blocked to contact the Internet service providers (ISPs).
Last month, U.K. ISP TalkTalk apologized after it incorrectly categorized London Friend, one of the city’s oldest lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender charities, as pornographic, preventing some from accessing the group’s site. Sky blocked a site called TorrentFreak, a legitimate copyright and privacy news site. The filter even broke an update to strategy game League of Legends, which had a few files containing the letters “s-e-x” (like Varu sEx pirationTimer.luaobj ).
Right now, there’s no master list of blocked content. One provider, O2, does allow customers to check what sites its “parental control” settings block. Some are ludicrous: counseling service Childline, domestic violence charity Refuge, and LGBT organization Stonewall.
“The most vulnerable people in society are the most likely to be cut off from the help they need,” noted Martin Robbins in the NewStatesman.
The Internet filters only affect new connections, so they don’t yet cover a majority of the U.K. Internet customers can opt-out by contacting their ISP — although there are other workarounds, like this Chrome extension.
Hat tip: BBC VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
