Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages That’s a lot of naked survivalists: Rust sales surpass 750,000 since launch Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Survival game Rust from Facepunch Studios is a surprise hit on Steam.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The best-selling game on Steam right now isn’t finished and features a startlingly amount of naked people.
It’s called Rust, and developer Facepunch Studios revealed today that it has sold more than 750,000 copies of the open-world survival game since it debuted in December. Rust is available for purchase now on Steam for $20 through that service’s Early Access program. Rust is in the beginning phases of development, but Early Access enables consumers to pay for the opportunity to playtest products before they’re finished.
Rust has players entering a hostile world with nothing. Gamers must then explore the landscape for resources to craft clothes, weapons, and shelter. At the beginning, people don’t even have pants and must run around the woods in the buff.
“We are blown away by the popularity of Rust so far,” Rust creator Garry Newman wrote in a blog update.
 “It doesn’t even seem real yet. Our original plan was to release on Steam Early Access, without making a big deal of it, and slowly build up a bigger fan base by releasing regular updates, until we reached a point where we felt the game was ready for a bigger audience — and then start advertising it and bringing more people in. The unjustifiable popularity is both a blessing and a curse.” Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! Newman said it is a blessing because the sales will help it fund further development.
“We’ve been the No. 1 best seller for two weeks,” he wrote.
Rust has had as many as 50,000 concurrent players, which was enough to make it the fourth most-played game on Steam.
“But it’s also a curse because the amount of people playing has kind of given us a sensory overload,” wrote Newman. “We see all these amazing things happening, voices from all directions, ideas, bugs, cheaters — and we’re scrambling to catch up with everything.” GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
