Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Heyzap is bringing HD video ads to mobile games Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Heyzap's video ad platform.
Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
The advertising interludes during your free-to-play gaming sessions are about to get some audio-visual sizzle.
Heyzap , a mobile-gaming services platform, revealed today that it will begin rolling out HD video ads to games on smartphones and tablets this year. The company’s ad platform debuted in March, and with the introduction of video, it hopes to position itself as the premier platform for mobile marketing.
“We’ve thought about video ads for a while because of the obvious potential benefits and success on the web, but [we] wanted to really nail the user experience before introducing our version,” Heyzap chief executive Immad Akhund said. “The current iteration of video ads on the mobile market can be fairly interruptive [ sic ]. We spent a long time tweaking and refining the quality to where we think it should be.” Heyzap has already tested out video ads for games like NaturalMotion’s (now a subsidiary of Zynga) CSR Racing. It provided a demonstration of how it works: Event GamesBeat at the Game Awards We invite you to join us in LA for GamesBeat at the Game Awards event this December 7. Reserve your spot now as space is limited! The move to video is a major step in advertising on mobile because of the medium’s capability to engage viewers. Heyzap claims that the best video commercials performed up to 100 percent better than the best static ads.
To help publishers and marketers get the most out of their videos, Heyzap is providing a suite of tools and best practices. The company’s platform features a heatmap that shows when viewers clicked through the most often, and it also provides a number of tools to customize the experience.
To maximize conversion, Heyzap provides advertisers with the capability to reward viewers who watch the video. For example, in free-to-play games that have virtual currency, players might get 1,000 bonus coins if they watch a video ad. The commercial would play up this angle.
For Heyzap, the key to making video work in advertising on mobile is a seamless experience that doesn’t feel jarring, which is something many static ads still struggle with.
“We’re trying to deliver truly relevant content with as beautiful a presentation as possible,” said Akhund. “The ridiculously high click-through rates and [effective cost per 1,000 views] are just a nice side effect.” GamesBeat's creed when covering the game industry is "where passion meets business." What does this mean? We want to tell you how the news matters to you -- not just as a decision-maker at a game studio, but also as a fan of games. Whether you read our articles, listen to our podcasts, or watch our videos, GamesBeat will help you learn about the industry and enjoy engaging with it.
Discover our Briefings.
Join the GamesBeat community! Enjoy access to special events, private newsletters and more.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
