Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Coworking space Rainmaking Loft sets up shop in Berlin Michelle Kuepper, VentureVillage Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
In its first expansion, London-launched coworking space Rainmaking Loft today announced it is coming to Berlin.
Set to open on February 27, the new Rainmaking Loft will be located in the original home of accelerator Startupbootcamp in a former art gallery near Checkpoint Charlie. A total of 80 desks will be available within the 1,000-square-meter office space, which also includes an events space, cafe, and bar.
The loft aims to form a link between the Berlin and London tech ecosystems – members of either coworking space have access to the resources and events at both locations. So-called “hotdesks” are also available in both spaces for visiting founders, plus the Berlin location offers its “Angels in Residence” a mezzanine area that they can rent when they’re in town.
Startupbootcamp managing director Alex Farcet said, “We started our presence in Berlin in 2012 with the launch of Startupbootcamp Berlin and moved into a beautiful former gallery space near Checkpoint Charlie in June 2013. That space has now grown into one of the coolest and most startup-friendly spots in Berlin, and we’re super proud to join forces under the Rainmaking Loft brand”.
Berlin is a hotbed of coworking spaces. Other prominent locations include Betahaus, Mobilesuite, The WYE, and St Oberholz, while startup centre TechHub is set to open early this year.
For related posts, check out Startupbootcamp Berlin to open coworking space The Startup Gallery Betahaus Sofia – the coworking community protesting for political change in Bulgaria “Building a high-growth startup is no longer a local activity” – Betahaus Berlin joins Startup Federation VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
