Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Mark Zuckerberg wants Facebook users to submit ideas for his 2015 personal challenge Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn "People first," the slide behind Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg proclaims.
Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Mark Zuckerberg is looking for help from Facebook’s 1.35 billion users to figure out what goal he should set for himself in 2015.
Each year, the Facebook cofounder picks a personal challenge. In past years, those goals have included learning Mandarin, meeting one new person a day who didn’t work for Facebook, and only eating meat from animals he’d killed himself.
“Every year I take on a challenge to broaden my perspective and learn something about the world beyond my work at Facebook,” he wrote in a public post today on Facebook.
 “I have an idea of what my next challenge might be, but I’m open to more ideas before the new year officially begins. So share your ideas here!” And share people did. The first thing Zuckerberg may need to do in 2015 is hire a personal assistant to read the 30,264 comments, or track the 1,937 shares of the post.
If you sort the replies by “top comments,” however, these are the ones that are bubbling to the top at the moment: Robert Scoble Have someone visit your house every week that you have never had over.
Scott Kleinberg Buy a telescope and look into it every night … I can’t think of a better way to learn something about the world — and worlds unknown.
Pejman Nozad teach an elementary class once a month! Sean Percival Don’t use a smartphone for 1 year Don Dodge Post something on Facebook every day.
Dave Donohue My personal challenge for 2015 is to only read non-fiction books. Over the past 10ish years, I’ve used fiction to escape the rigors of daily life, and I’m using this year to embrace the mental challenge of closing every night with something material.
Lili Balfour Go vegan! VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
