Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Exclusive Musician ignores legal threats from Sony and continues tweeting hacked emails Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Val Broeksmit of Bikini Robot Army Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Either musician Val Broeksmit is extremely courageous, or he’s extremely foolish.
Last week, Broeksmit gained global attention following news reports that Sony had threatened to sue him because he was tweeting pictures of emails released by hackers. Initially freaked out, Broeksmit remained calmed and instead decided to keep tweeting from his @BikiniRobotArmy account.
Over the past week, Broeksmit has posted a steady barrage of pictures of leaked emails that contain a mix of interesting Hollywood insider gossip ( Sony executives hated the most recent Superman movie ; Cameron Crowe might want to direct the Steve Jobs biopic ) to emails that are just plain embarrassing.
In an interview last week, Broeksmit said he wasn’t sure how seriously to take Sony’s threat. In an email this week, he said he hadn’t heard anything more from Sony over the holidays since he received a notification that Sony was considering legal action if he didn’t stop tweeting.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! So far, Broeksmit said the only fallout was that Twitter removed one tweet related to a James Bond script because it may have violated copyright laws.
Meanwhile, since news of the Sony legal threat broke, Broeksmit has seen his followers on Twitter jump from 17,763 to 22,154. Another case, perhaps, of Sony tactics bringing more attention to someone doing something they don’t want others to see..
@BikiniRobotArmy You are doing god’s work.
— Jac (@_CocktailQueen) December 16, 2014 VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
