Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Want a cheap, reliable ride for NYE? Download these Uber alternatives before tonight Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Getting a ride home on New Year’s Eve is like trying to get a Tickle-Me-Elmo at Walmart on Black Friday: To beat the crowds, you need a plan. Even if you want to pay +$200 for Uber’s crazy surge pricing, it can still be a nightmare trying to snag one of the few available cars.
So, getting a safe, reliable, and cheap ride home tonight is a numbers game. Load up your phone with every transportation alternative now and you (and your friends) will thank you later. Of course, not every city will have all these apps, but it’s a good idea to set up a credit card with as many as are available in your area.
Lyft : The pink mustachioed ridesharing company is Uber’s primary competitor and has traditionally capped its surge pricing (Uber has no cap).
Flywheel : Flywheel is a taxi-only alternative to Uber and has promised surge-free pricing during NYE. Rides within many cities will be just $10, and the company will reimburse the driver at double the normal meter rate.
 Unfortunately, since taxis are a government-limited industry, there are only so many surge-free cabs to go around.
Sidecar : One of the original ridesharing companies is a reliable Uber alternative, and it allows drivers to set their own price. I suspect that drivers may be charging massive rates on NYE, but it’s worth it to have Sidecar in your quiver tonight.
Hailo Hailo is a taxi-friendly ride-sharing app that also partners with licensed drivers. It’s available in 20 cities, which covers a lot of the world.
Curb : Formerly Taxi Magic, Curb recently relaunched and is available in most major cities.
Good luck tonight, and stay safe! VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
