Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Space Station astronauts to soar past New Year’s 16 times Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn NASA's Barry Wilmore and Terry Virts will wish the world 16 different New Year's celebrations today.
When you’re hurtling through space at 17,100 miles an hour, you can be forgiven for not having time for a lengthy New Year’s celebration at midnight. So why not do it over and over and over again? That’s what the astronauts and cosmonauts aboard the International Space Station (ISS) will be doing. In a video posted today , NASA astronauts Barry Wilmore and Terry Virts wished those of us stuck in single time zones here on Earth a Happy New Year, saying they would be celebrating by flying over 16 separate midnight celebrations of the transition from 2014 into 2015.
“We figure that we will be over midnight somewhere over the Earth 16 times throughout this day,” Wilmore, the commander of the current ISS expedition, said in the video. “So we plan to celebrate NY 16 times with our comrades, our people down on Earth that are doing it at that very moment.” The two do not explain why they’re only passing over midnight 16 times, given that there are 24 — or 25, according to some — time zones on Earth.
Unfortunately, the video does not show the astronauts popping a bottle of Champagne. It would be something to see all that bubbly in zero-gravity. Although it could probably do real harm to the ISS’ delicate instruments.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
