Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Snapchat has raised $485M since April, new filing shows Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Snapchat, the ephemeral messaging app that’s had a rollercoaster year, also raised $485 million from 23 investors since April, a new legal filing reveals.
Since the summer, reports have emerged that Snapchat has been signing up new investors including Yahoo, Alibaba , and Kleiner Perkins, with the last reportedly committing $20 million to the company.
 It appears that all the fundraising has amounted to $485 million, according to the document.
Snapchat raised its previous funding round — $50 million — l ast December from Coatue Management.
 Today’s filing does not list any new investors or board members, so participants in the round are hard to discern.
The recent email leaks from the Sony hacking revealed that Snapchat has made a few acquisitions this year, including video-recording glasses startup Vergence Labs for $15 million , and video technology startup AddLive for $30 million, among others.
We’ve reached out to the company and will update if we hear back.
Snapchat was founded in 2011 by Bobby Murphy and Evan Spiegel, and is based in Venice, California. Prior to this round, the company had raised $163 million in funding, and reported turned down a $3 billion acquisition from Facebook in 2013.
VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
