X Black Friday 2023 Live Blog Can You Trust AI Photography? Best TV for 2023 Thanksgiving Travel Times Snoozing Is Fine Solar EV charging 6 Best TV Gifts Tech Money Home Wellness Home Internet Energy Deals Sleep Price Finder more Tech Computing Adobe Lightroom is getting more powerful with AI-based selection tool Your brain can spot the subject of a photo. Adobe's photo editing software is getting a similar capability after learning from 500,000 shots.
Stephen Shankland principal writer Expertise processors, semiconductors, web browsers, quantum computing, supercomputers, AI, 3D printing, drones, computer science, physics, programming, materials science, USB, UWB, Android, digital photography, science Credentials I've been covering the technology industry for 24 years and was a science writer for five years before that. I've got deep expertise in microprocessors, digital photography, computer hardware and software, internet standards, web technology, and other dee Stephen Shankland Sept. 28, 2021 2:39 p.m. PT 2 min read Adobe is adding subject and sky selection technology into its Lightroom software.
Screenshot by Stephen Shankland/CNET Adobe will add a new selection tool to its Lightroom software in October to help photo editors get the look they want with less manual labor. The feature, powered by artificial intelligence technology, lets photographers spotlight photo subjects like people, buildings and animals with a single click so they can fine tune color, lighting, tonality and other characteristics.
The technique relies on AI to identify specific subjects or other points of interest in a photograph, such as the sky, after the user selects a portion of the photograph. The selection, called a mask, helps photographers with tasks such as making people in the shade stand out or brightening washed-out skies.
"Masking now enables you to make complex selections with a single click and then refine those selections with accuracy and ease," Pei Ketron, a Lightroom team member, said in a video detailing the masking feature ahead of its release on Oct. 26, the first day of the Adobe Max show.
Adobe is building the technology into Lightroom, Lightroom Classic and the Adobe Camera Raw (ACR) tool in Photoshop. That'll make it available on Windows machines, Android phones, iPads, iPhones and Macs. It won't be available on Lightroom on the web, though, Adobe said.
The new Lightroom masking technique shows the increasing power of AI, technology that's sweeping the computing industry because of its ability to handle the complexity of real-world data. AI systems are typically trained on huge quantities of carefully annotated data, for example photos with the human faces highlighted. That's more useful than trying to describe in programming language terms what eyes, noses and mouths look like.
Photography changes Photoshop and Lightroom Super Resolution: How to quadruple your photo size How to take amazing photos with your iPhone or Android phone: CNET's top tips Apple finally stole my heart from the Google Pixel with this iPhone camera feature If it works as advertised, it'll mean photographers won't have to open their shots in Photoshop for detailed edits and won't be as likely to move to rival software, such as Phase One's Capture One that have more elaborate tools for masking and selection.
The technology can spot a variety of subject types based on how Adobe trained its AI system, the company said.
"Select Subject uses a specially trained saliency detector to identify the central subject in a photo and has been trained with over 500,000 photos covering a range of people, man-made structures, animals, and natural objects," Adobe said.
Adobe is building a variety of AI tools into its software.
Lightroom uses AI to zoom into photos , for example, and Photoshop now includes neural filters for jobs like smoothing skin, blurring backgrounds and adding color to black and white photos.
Adding the new selection tool took some engineering work. Previously, Lightroom and ACR stored mask information in a compact mathematical format. But the new selection technology adds a bitmap across the entire image, allowing different degrees of masking for each pixel, Adobe's Josh Bury said in a blog post.
 That paves the way for more changes, he added.
"We've also got some fun new tech brewing that we're really excited about that will take further advantage of bitmap-based masks which we'll be releasing sometime next year," Bury said.
Computing Guides Laptops Best Laptop Best Chromebook Best Budget Laptop Best Cheap Gaming Laptop Best 2-in-1 Laptop Best Windows Laptop Best Macbook Best Gaming Laptop Best Macbook Deals Desktops & Monitors Best Desktop PC Best Gaming PC Best Monitor Under 200 Best Desktop Deals Best Monitors M2 Mac Mini Review Computer Accessories Best PC Speakers Best Printer Best External Hard Drive SSD Best USB C Hub Docking Station Best Keyboard Best Webcams Best Mouse Best Laptop Backpack Photography Best Camera to Buy Best Vlogging Camera Best Tripod Best Waterproof Camera Best Action Camera Best Camera Bag and Backpack Best Drone Tablets & E-Readers Best E-Ink Tablets Best iPad Deals Best iPad Best E-Reader Best Tablet Best Android Tablet 3D Printers Best 3D Printer Best Budget 3D Printer Best 3D Printing Filament Best 3D Printer Deals More From CNET Deals Reviews Best Products Gift Guide Shopping Extension Videos Software Downloads About About CNET Newsletters Sitemap Careers Policies Cookie Settings Help Center Licensing Privacy Policy Terms of Use Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information instagram youtube tiktok facebook twitter flipboard
