Toggle Navigation News Events TNW Conference 2024 June 20 & 21, 2024 TNW Vision: 2024 All events Spaces Programs Newsletters Partner with us Jobs Contact News topic topic topic Latest Deep tech Sustainability Ecosystems Data and security Fintech and ecommerce Future of work More Startups and technology Investors and funding Government and policy Corporates and innovation Gadgets & apps Early bird Business passes are 90% SOLD OUT 🎟️ Buy now before they are gone → All Articles for Startup Company A startup company, start-up or startup is a company, a partnership or temporary organization designed to search for a repeatable and scalable business model.
 These companies, generally newly created, are in a phase of development and research for markets. The term became popular internationally during the dot-com bubble when a great number of dot-com companies were founded. Lately, the term startup has been associated mostly with technological ventures designed for high-growth. At the beginning, startups face high uncertainty and have high rates of failure , but a minority of them do go on to be successful and influential. Some startups become big and they become unicorns, i.e. privately held startup companies valued at over US$1 billion. The unicorns are concentrated in a few countries, mainly the US, China, India and EU. Some of the largest unicorns are Ant Financial, ByteDance , DiDi, Uber , Xiaomi , and Airbnb.
Electric vehicle This new EV supercharger on wheels recharges in just 6 minutes Siôn Geschwindt 2 days ago Startup company Finnish startup races to map spread of ‘silent pandemic’ killing millions each year Siôn Geschwindt 3 days ago Startup company World’s biggest tidal energy ‘kite’ could single-handedly power a small town Siôn Geschwindt 8 days ago Startup company 140-year-old ocean heat tech could supply islands with limitless energy Siôn Geschwindt 9 days ago Artificial intelligence How Europe is racing to resolve its AI sovereignty woes Linnea Ahlgren 11 days ago Space Europe’s first continental spaceport opens in major boost for German startup Siôn Geschwindt 15 days ago tech How Valencia’s fast-growing startup ecosystem is thriving Linnea Ahlgren 15 days ago Startup company Multiverse Computing deploys quantum technology to predict floods Ioanna Lykiardopoulou 18 days ago Startup company Cultivated meat is a ‘promising’ space food for astronauts, ESA says Ioanna Lykiardopoulou 18 days ago Startup company This Irish startup is throwing concrete dust on farms to fight climate change Siôn Geschwindt 23 days ago The heart of tech More TNW Media Events Programs Spaces Newsletters Jobs in tech About TNW Partner with us Jobs Terms & Conditions Cookie Statement Privacy Statement Editorial Policy Masthead Copyright © 2006—2023, The Next Web B.V. Made with <3 in Amsterdam.
