The New Yorker Newsletter To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Open Navigation Menu Find anything you save across the site in your account Close Alert The Latest News Books & Culture Fiction & Poetry Humor & Cartoons Magazine Puzzles & Games Video Podcasts Goings On Shop “According to Alice” Can an A.I. make imaginative sense of the world? For the past year and a half, Sheila Heti has been experimenting with writing fiction using an online chatbot. This is their short story.
The Lede Reporting and analysis on the affairs of the day.
After Forty Years of Democracy, Argentina Faces a Defining Presidential Runoff Is the country really so fed up with the status quo that it will elect a right-wing former TV personality? By Graciela Mochkofsky The Michigan Sign-Stealing Story Is the Perfect College-Football Scandal The whole thing is stupid, which is why it’s all such good news, even for Michigan.
By Louisa Thomas “Saltburn” Is a “Brideshead” for the Incel Age Emerald Fennell’s class satire is diabolically clever, but there is a void at its center.
By Richard Brody Economists Struggle to Come to Terms with “Immaculate Disinflation” Experts said that inflation couldn’t be conquered without a lot more economic pain, but it’s happening.
By John Cassidy The Weekend Essay A Mother’s Grief in New Haven Laquvia Jones lost both of her sons to shootings. Now she wonders why a city with a deep sense of community—and one of the wealthiest universities in the world—can’t figure out how to address gun violence.
By Nicholas Dawidoff The Israel-Hamas War How Qatar Became the World’s Go-To Hostage Negotiator The Gulf state is trying to help Hamas and Israel come to a deal. How did it become one of the world’s most prominent hostage-situation mediators? By Joel Simon The Trauma of Gaza’s Doctors The head of mission for Doctors Without Borders in Palestine on the horrors of practicing medicine under siege.
By Isaac Chotiner The Use of Children, Hostages, and the Vulnerable in War The war in Gaza has the feel of history sliding backward.
By Steve Coll How Gaza and the British Right Split London Duelling Armistice Day protests, a country divided over Israel and Palestine, and the return of David Cameron.
By Sam Knight The Long Wait of the Hostages’ Families The relatives of those held by Hamas “live with a timer now that’s always on.” By Ruth Margalit Escalating Violence Between Israel and Lebanon There’s a sense of history repeating itself along the border, where tens of thousands have been displaced and the civilian death toll is climbing.
By Rania Abouzeid Dept. of Popular Culture Bravo in the Flesh More than a hundred and sixty reality stars descended on Las Vegas, for BravoCon, where they were pulled apart by their harshest critics, who also happen to be their most diehard fans.
By Doreen St. Félix Photography by Sinna Nasseri Annals of Pop Culture The Cassette-Tape Revolution The disruptive power of the cassette anticipated the even greater tectonic shift that the digital age would bring to music.
By Jon Michaud Why Are Millennials Still Attached to American Girl? From the beginning, Pleasant Rowland’s invention wasn’t just a doll but a brand.
By Lizzie Feidelson The Real Message of “The Real Housewives” Since the show’s rise during the Great Recession, it has imparted a message to women: you better work, bitch.
By Jennifer Wilson Books What the Doomsayers Get Wrong About Deepfakes Experts have warned that utterly realistic A.I.-generated videos might wreak havoc through deception. What’s happened is troubling in a different way.
By Daniel Immerwahr The Critics The Current Cinema “Maestro” Is a Leonard Bernstein Bio-Pic as Restless as Its Subject Bradley Cooper stars in his own film about the great conductor-composer, but it is Carey Mulligan, as Bernstein’s wife, Felicia, who walks away with the movie.
By Anthony Lane Under Review A Hedge-Fund Founder’s Obsessive Storytelling A new book about Ray Dalio paints an unflattering picture—but it’s hard to imagine a record more damning than the one Dalio has created himself.
By Tarpley Hitt Critics at Large Is “The Golden Bachelor” Too Good to Be True? In this episode of the podcast, the hosts ask whether the “Bachelor” spinoff’s vision of older love is radical or regressive.
With Vinson Cunningham , Naomi Fry , and Alexandra Schwartz Books The War on Charlie Chaplin He was one of the world’s most celebrated and beloved stars. Then his adopted country turned against him.
By Louis Menand The Front Row “May December” Knows What It Thinks, and That’s a Problem Todd Haynes’s film, starring Julianne Moore and Natalie Portman as duelling narcissists, misses dramas that don’t fit its schematic.
By Richard Brody Cultural Comment “The Crown” Presents the Last Days of Princess Diana The people’s princess remains irresistible in both fiction and memory.
By Rebecca Mead A Critic at Large The Sphere and Our “Immersion” Complex The concept has become ubiquitous in art and entertainment. But is it about capturing our attention—or deceiving it? By Jackson Arn Goings On What we’re watching, eating, and doing, in New York City and beyond.
Our Critics’ Picks In this week’s culture recommendations : Marin Ireland in Second Stage’s “Spain,” plus the films of Jo Van Fleet, a Philip Glass dance showcase, LCD Soundsystem, and more.
My Favorite Restaurants in New York City Our food critic Hannah Goldfield presents twenty of her top restaurants, in no particular order.
What to See This Season Peruse the Winter Culture Preview to find the season’s most anticipated art, theatre, music, movies, and more.
Annals of Law Enforcement Does A.I. Lead Police to Ignore Contradictory Evidence? Too often, a facial-recognition search represents virtually the entirety of a police investigation.
By Eyal Press Dept. of Hoopla A collection of illustrated funnies from the mighty pen of Edward Steed.
The Best Band Names Clipped from an Issue of The New Yorker Donald Trump in New York City Satirical Cartoons The Times and the Post Walk Into a Bar Profiles Why the Godfather of A.I. Fears What He’s Built Geoffrey Hinton has spent a lifetime teaching computers to learn. Now he worries that artificial brains are better than ours.
By Joshua Rothman Persons of Interest Holly Herndon’s Infinite Art By Anna Wiener Robert Jay Lifton on Maintaining Hope in an Age of Catastrophe By Masha Gessen Barbra Streisand’s Mother of All Memoirs By Rachel Syme Cherelle Parker Defies the Progressive Agenda By Eliza Griswold The Front Row Siskel, Ebert, and the Secret of Criticism The duo’s onscreen sparring, far from being a sideshow, foregrounded the inextricably personal nature of reviewing.
By Richard Brody Dept. of Good News The New Yorker Documentary Preparing to Fly in “Puffling” In Jessica Bishopp’s meditative short film, teen-agers in Iceland make it their mission to rescue lost puffins.
Film by Jessica Bishopp Text by Chloe Xiang The Sporting Scene The Glorious Comedy of Victor Wembanyama The San Antonio Spurs rookie, who stands seven feet four, with an eight-foot wingspan, is making other players look silly.
By Louisa Thomas Letter from the Southwest Surveying the Vintage Market at Texas’s Wildest Antique Fair The craze for old things reaches its peak of excess in Round Top.
By Rachel Monroe Screening Room “Knight of Fortune” In this short film by Lasse Lyskjær Noer , two widowers lean on each other for emotional support.
Puzzles & Games Take a break and play.
Name Drop A quiz that tests your knowledge of notable people.
The Crossword A puzzle that ranges in difficulty, with themes on Fridays.
The Cryptic A puzzle for lovers of wily wordplay.
Caption Contest We provide a cartoon, you provide a caption.
Listen to The New Yorker Dept. of Science Reinventing the Dinosaur By Rivka Galchen Annals of Disaster Why Maui Burned By Carolyn Kormann The World of Business What Happens to All the Stuff We Return? By David Owen Annals of Inquiry They Studied Dishonesty. Was Their Work a Lie? By Gideon Lewis-Kraus Dispatch Crossing the Taiwan Strait with the U.S. Navy In disputed waters, Chinese and American vessels vie for dominance.
By Dexter Filkins The Talk of the Town L.A. Postcard A Delegation of Survivors from Israel and Families of Hostages By Dana Goodyear High Note Dept.
Dressing Malcolm X (and a Chorus of Time Travellers) By Natalie Meade The Pictures Lenny Bernstein’s Offspring Like the Nose By Michael Schulman In Uniform Stan Herman, the People’s Designer By Bob Morris Fiction from the Archives Zadie Smith Selected Stories Now More Than Ever “I instinctively sympathize with the guilty. That’s my guilty secret.” The Embassy of Cambodia “Nobody could have expected it, or be expecting it. It’s a surprise, to us all.” Two Men Arrive in a Village “A kind of wildness descends, a bloody chaos, into which all the formal gestures of welcome and food and threat seem instantly to dissolve.” Escape from New York “He could not get over how well he was handling the apocalypse so far.” Photograph by Vittorio Zunino Celotto / Getty Selected Stories Now More Than Ever The Embassy of Cambodia Two Men Arrive in a Village Escape from New York The Writer’s Voice Personal History More by this author » Daily Cartoon “If you can safeguard this punch card for half a decade, you get a free coffee.” Cartoon by Colin Tom This week’s cartoons » Shouts & Murmurs Cartoons, comics, and other funny stuff.
Sign up for the Humor newsletter.
Culture Desk The Art of Bouldering Daily Shouts Algorithm Recommendations Since Having Kids Daily Shouts More Accurate Names for the Bodily Systems as I’ve Got Older Daily Shouts A Day in the Life of the Guy Who Harassed You on a Dating App Satire from The Borowitz Report George Santos to Spend More Time with Imaginary Family Blitt’s Kvetchbook Taking It to the Streets Sections News Books & Culture Fiction & Poetry Humor & Cartoons Magazine Crossword Video Podcasts Archive Goings On More Customer Care Shop The New Yorker Buy Covers and Cartoons Condé Nast Store Digital Access Newsletters Jigsaw Puzzle RSS About Careers Contact F.A.Q.
Media Kit Press Accessibility Help © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
The New Yorker may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Facebook X Snapchat YouTube Instagram Do Not Sell My Personal Info
