Account overview Billing Profile Emails & marketing Data privacy Settings Help Comments & replies Sign out switch to the US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition current edition: The Guardian - Back to home News US news World news Environment US politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA NHL F1 Golf Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money What term do you want to search? Search with google Support us Print subscriptions US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition switch to the International edition switch to the Europe edition Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Facebook Twitter Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Puzzles app Guardian Licensing News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show More US World Environment US Politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Adobe UK lost out on £2bn in tax in 2021 as big tech shifted profits abroad, claim campaigners TaxWatch analysis estimates British arms of seven major tech firms paid £750m in corporation tax instead of possible £2.8bn Published: 16 Oct 2023 UK lost out on £2bn in tax in 2021 as big tech shifted profits abroad, claim campaigners John Warnock, Adobe co-founder and inventor of PDF, dies aged 82 Creator of pioneering document sharing technology founded Adobe in 1982 with Charles Geschke Published: 25 Aug 2023 John Warnock, Adobe co-founder and inventor of PDF, dies aged 82 Adobe to integrate AI into Photoshop amid fears of job losses and mass faking of images Company says Adobe Firefly is a ‘co-pilot’ to graphic design rather than a replacement for humans Published: 23 May 2023 Adobe to integrate AI into Photoshop amid fears of job losses and mass faking of images TechScape TechScape: The AI tools that will write our emails, attend our meetings – and change our lives From Gmail to Office 365, AI is about to become deeply integrated into the apps we use every day. Here’s how Published: 21 Mar 2023 TechScape: The AI tools that will write our emails, attend our meetings – and change our lives The shifting patterns of English May I have a word about… Adobe’s creative use of language Jonathan Bouquet The software company wants me to push my digital design envelope. Chance would be a fine thing Published: 8 Jan 2023 Published: 8 Jan 2023 May I have a word about… Adobe’s creative use of language The networker Adobe can’t Photoshop out the fact its $20bn Figma deal is a naked land grab John Naughton The software giant paying vastly over the odds for a small but strategically threatening company should alarm US regulators Published: 24 Sep 2022 Published: 24 Sep 2022 Adobe can’t Photoshop out the fact its $20bn Figma deal is a naked land grab The networker How FarmVille and Facebook helped to cultivate a new audience for gaming John Naughton The Flash-based title, now put to rest alongside Adobe’s animation tool, was much derided, but broadened the appeal of computer games Published: 9 Jan 2021 Published: 9 Jan 2021 How FarmVille and Facebook helped to cultivate a new audience for gaming Ask Jack What’s the best PC for video editing for £1,000? Johnny’s 13-year-old daughter needs a new PC for Adobe’s Premiere Pro costing about £1,000. What are the options? Published: 29 Aug 2019 What’s the best PC for video editing for £1,000? Ask Jack What’s the best cheap tablet or e-reader for PDF files? Thomas needs a device to read A4 PDFs of technical papers that is cheaper than a good laptop Published: 27 Jun 2019 What’s the best cheap tablet or e-reader for PDF files? From Macs to iPods and apps: how Apple revolutionised technology Over 42 years, the company has created an ‘app economy’ and placed itself at the centre of it Published: 2 Aug 2018 From Macs to iPods and apps: how Apple revolutionised technology Ask Jack Would a cheap refurbished laptop run Photoshop? Yuri needs a laptop to run Adobe Creative Suite but is short of funds. Could he get an old machine that will do the job? Published: 22 Feb 2018 Would a cheap refurbished laptop run Photoshop? Ask Jack Which is the best desktop PC for photo editing? Paul is looking for a desktop PC to edit his photos in Adobe Lightroom. What sort of specification would be best? Published: 5 Oct 2017 Which is the best desktop PC for photo editing? Ask Jack Which is the best laptop for photo editing? Aileen is going to study photography and needs a powerful laptop for editing photos. It’s a job that any laptop can do, but perhaps not to the high level required Published: 7 Sep 2017 Which is the best laptop for photo editing? Adobe to pull plug on Flash after years of waning popularity The media-powering technology was once inescapable – but it began to fall out of favor after Apple decided not to use it on the iPhone Published: 25 Jul 2017 Adobe to pull plug on Flash after years of waning popularity Ask Jack What’s the best software for editing drone videos? Paul’s company wants to create professional-looking videos from drone camera footage. What are the options? Published: 6 Oct 2016 What’s the best software for editing drone videos? Adobe pulls update that deletes unrelated files without warning Published: 15 Feb 2016 Adobe pulls update that deletes unrelated files without warning Google to ban Adobe Flash-based advertising Published: 10 Feb 2016 Google to ban Adobe Flash-based advertising 2015 was the year that Adobe's Flash finally began to die The deathknell tolls for Flash as Google, Firefox, Amazon and other technology companies block it, while Adobe dumps the name from its own products Published: 29 Dec 2015 2015 was the year that Adobe's Flash finally began to die Facebook ditches Flash video in latest blow to maligned plugin Social network and its 8bn daily video views join YouTube in switching to HTML5, which could be the critical cut that finally starts Flash’s demise Published: 21 Dec 2015 Facebook ditches Flash video in latest blow to maligned plugin Apple, Google and Microsoft: weakening encryption lets the bad guys in Technology companies respond to post-Paris attack threats to web security and calls for backdoors in encryption from government Published: 23 Nov 2015 Apple, Google and Microsoft: weakening encryption lets the bad guys in About 121 results for Adobe 1 … next Topics Software Computing Internet Alphabet Google US World Environment US Politics Ukraine Soccer Business Tech Science Newsletters Wellness News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top Close
