The Verge homepage The Verge homepage The Verge The Verge logo.
/ Tech / Reviews / Science / Entertainment / More Menu Expand Menu Filed under: Artificial Intelligence Turmoil at OpenAI: after firing Sam Altman, what’s next for the home of ChatGPT? By Richard Lawler , a senior editor following news across tech, culture, policy, and entertainment. He joined The Verge in 2021 after several years covering news at Engadget.
Share this story On November 17th, OpenAI’s board abruptly announced that co-founder and CEO Sam Altman was out, effective immediately. Without saying it directly, the board revealed Altman was fired after a review “concluded that he was not consistently candid in his communications with the board, hindering its ability to exercise its responsibilities.” One day later, sources tell The Verge that the board is in discussions with Sam Altman about bringing him back as its CEO.
What caused the board to lose confidence in his ability to lead OpenAI is unknown. In the preceding days, everyone had continued acting as though everything was normal, with insiders at OpenAI and partners like Microsoft surprised to learn of Altman’s ouster only moments before it was announced.
Within hours, fellow co-founder and former chair Greg Brockman announced that “based on today’s news, I quit.” OpenAI’s chief technology officer, Mira Murati, has been appointed interim CEO for now.
The shakeup comes just shy of one year after the launch of ChatGPT , which quickly entered mainstream conversation, became one of the fastest-growing apps in history, and initiated an industry-wide race to build generative AI tools and hardware to power them. At OpenAI’s first developer conference just a week before his ouster, Altman said the service had over 100 million weekly users , and more than two million developers were building on the company’s APIs.
All of the news and updates about OpenAI’s executive turnover continue below.
Highlights OpenAI board in discussions with Sam Altman to return as CEO What happened to Sam Altman? Sam Altman fired as CEO of OpenAI TODAY, 50 minutes ago Nilay Patel The OpenAI board is waffling on resigning, and that might push Sam Altman to start a new company after all.
Big update to our scoop from earlier: a key 5PM PT deadline for the OpenAI board to strike a deal to resign and Sam Altman to return has passed, and mass resignations at OpenAI may come soon, unless this thing gets done.
OpenAI board in discussions with Sam Altman to return as CEO Alex Heath and Nilay Patel Nov 18 TODAY, Two hours ago Richard Lawler More on the pressure for OpenAI’s board to restore Sam Altman as CEO.
Along with the news from Alex Heath and Nilay Patel that OpenAI’s board is in discussions with just-fired CEO Sam Altman about his return, now Bloomberg reports that Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella “has been in touch with Altman and pledged to support him in whatever steps he takes next.” The Wall Street Journal writes that Microsoft (the nonprofit’s primary financial backer) and Thrive Capital (its second-largest shareholder) are “ helping orchestrate the efforts” to restore Altman.
And according to this report by Forbes , the plan some investors are considering is to make the board consider the situation “untenable through a combination of mass revolt by senior researchers, withheld cloud computing credits from Microsoft, and a potential lawsuit from investors.” OpenAI board in discussions with Sam Altman to return as CEO Alex Heath and Nilay Patel Nov 18 Nov 18 Alex Heath and Nilay Patel OpenAI board in discussions with Sam Altman to return as CEO Sam Altman speaking on behalf of OpenAI at the APEC CEO Summit the day before he was fired.
Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images The OpenAI board is in discussions with Sam Altman to return to the company as its CEO, according to multiple people familiar with the matter. One of them said Altman, who was suddenly fired by the board on Friday with no notice, is “ambivalent” about coming back and would want significant governance changes.
Update, 5:35PM PT: A source close to Altman says the board had agreed in principle to resign and to allow Altman and Brockman to return, but has since waffled — missing a key 5PM PT deadline by which many OpenAI staffers were set to resign. If Altman decides to leave and start a new company, those staffers would assuredly go with him.
Read Article > Nov 18 Wes Davis Sam Altman says he has a new venture in mind.
The Information reported today that, fresh off being forced out of OpenAI , Sam Altman is spreading the word among investors that he has a new project in the works, possibly with the company’s former president, Greg Brockman.
Not long ago, rumors said Altman and Jony Ive would partner on an “iPhone of Artificial Intelligence” project, but later he said whatever ideas he has are “very nascent.” OpenAI Co-Founder Altman Plans New Venture [The Information] Nov 18 Wes Davis OpenAI’s COO told employees that Sam Altman wasn’t fired for “malfeasance.” That’s according to a memo Axios saw that chief operating officer Brad Lightcap sent out. Lightcap ruled out some of the possible reasons why Altman was let go : “We can say definitively that the board’s decision was not made in response to malfeasance or anything related to our financial, business, safety, or security/privacy practices. This was a breakdown in communication between Sam and the board.” After OpenAI announced Altman’s firing, company president Greg Brockman quit , as did three senior researchers.
Scoop: No "malfeasance" behind Sam Altman's firing, OpenAI memo says [Axios] Nov 18 Wes Davis Three high-level OpenAI researchers have quit.
The Information has the story.
 The outlet says Research director Jakub Pachocki, AI risk evaluation head Aleksander Madry, and longtime researcher Szymon Sidor resigned following Sam Altman’s surprise firing yesterday.
The article notes that Pachocki and Sidor had worked with Greg Brockman (who also left the company yesterday ) on OpenAI’s Dota 2-playing AI bot , while Madry joined the company in May 2023, later forming a team to mitigate AI risks.
Three Senior OpenAI Researchers Resign as Crisis Deepens [The Information] Nov 18 Richard Lawler This is how OpenAI fired its CEO, Sam Altman.
Former OpenAI president and chair Greg Brockman’s post on X tells his version of the events that pushed Sam Altman out of OpenAI (Altman reshared the post, and put up a message that today “has been sorta like reading your own eulogy while you’re still alive”).
According to Brockman, OpenAI Chief Scientist and board member Ilya Sutskever texted Altman on Thursday night asking to talk at noon on Friday (November 17th). At noon, on a Google Meet call with Sutskever, as well as non-employee board members Adam D’Angelo, Tasha McCauley, and Helen Toner, “Ilya told Sam he was being fired and that the news was going out very soon.” Within minutes, Sutskever invited Brockman to a Google Meet call where he was informed of his removal from the board “...and that Sam had been fired. Around the same time, OpenAI published a blog post.
” Nov 18 Alex Heath What happened to Sam Altman? Sam Altman.
Photo by Andrew Caballero-Reynolds On Thursday night, Sam Altman showed up at a warehouse in Oakland to talk to a room full of artists about generative AI. It was a busy day; just hours before, he was onstage at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Summit in downtown San Francisco speaking to world leaders.
At the Oakland warehouse, Altman was his usual self, cheering OpenAI’s work and coming across as relaxed, according to someone in the audience. He couldn’t linger, though. At about 7:40PM he told the room that he was running late to a meeting and bounced.
Read Article > Nov 18 Jay Peters OpenAI co-founder Greg Brockman is leaving, too Illustration: The Verge Sam Altman isn’t the only major OpenAI executive leaving the company on Friday. Hours after Altman was fired , with the board saying it “no longer has confidence in his ability to continue leading OpenAI,” co-founder and former board chair Greg Brockman revealed on X that he is also quitting.
When OpenAI announced the “leadership transition” and that CTO Mira Murati would take over as interim CEO, it said that Brockman would step down as chairman but remain in his role at the company, reporting to the CEO. Just a few hours later, that’s no longer true.
Read Article > Nov 17 Emma Roth Sam Altman makes his first statement after getting ousted from OpenAI.
The former CEO was suddenly fired by OpenAI’s board on Friday, and in a post on X, he gave no details on what happened but said he’ll “have more to say about what’s next later.” Nov 17 Jay Peters and Alex Heath Sam Altman fired as CEO of OpenAI Sam Altman.
OpenAI Update November 18th, 7:02PM ET : Multiple sources tell The Verge that after firing Altman, OpenAI’s board is in discussions with him about returning.
 Our original story continues below.
Sam Altman has been fired as CEO of OpenAI, the company announced on Friday.
Read Article > Nov 6 Alex Heath OpenAI is letting anyone create their own version of ChatGPT Illustration: The Verge With the release of ChatGPT one year ago, OpenAI introduced the world to the idea of an AI chatbot that can seemingly do anything. Now, the company is releasing a platform for making custom versions of ChatGPT for specific use cases — no coding required.
In the coming weeks, these AI agents, which OpenAI is calling GPTs , will be accessible through the GPT Store. Details about how the store will look and work are scarce for now, though OpenAI is promising to eventually pay creators an unspecified amount based on how much their GPTs are used. GPTs will be available to paying ChatGPT Plus subscribers and OpenAI enterprise customers, who can make internal-only GPTs for their employees.
Read Article > Nov 6 Jon Porter ChatGPT continues to be one of the fastest-growing services ever Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge One hundred million people are using ChatGPT on a weekly basis, OpenAI CEO Sam Altman announced at its first-ever developer conference on Monday.
 Since releasing its ChatGPT and Whisper models via API in March, the company also now boasts over two million developers, including over 92 percent of Fortune 500 companies.
OpenAI announced the figures as it detailed a range of new features, including a platform for building custom versions of ChatGPT to help with specific tasks and GPT-4 Turbo , a new model that has knowledge of world events up to April 2023 and which can fit the equivalent of over 300 pages of text in a single prompt.
Read Article > Verge Deals / Sign up for Verge Deals to get deals on products we've tested sent to your inbox daily.
From our sponsor Advertiser Content From Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell Or Share My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status How We Rate and Review Products Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement The Verge is a vox media network Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2023 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved
