Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons "Star Wars Explained" Answers More Star Wars Questions From Twitter About Released on 01/19/2021 Bruce Heerssen says, I just re-watched the original Star Wars, and I have a question.
How did Luke get authorization to pilot an X-Wing solely on his own claim to being a great pilot and that of a single, random Aussie? Well, it's not just his own claim.
Biggs Darklighter says, that Luke is the best bush pilot in the Outer Rim.
No question.
The Incom T-65 X-wing is made by the same manufacturer as Luke's T-16 back home.
The controls were said to be nearly identical.
So if you know how to fly at T-16, you should know how to fly at T-65.
Also, they were just desperate and they needed everyone they could get.
They just lost their last Red Five at the battle of Scarif, someone getting that cockpit.
So, close enough for the rebels.
Hi, I'm Alex Damon.
And I'm Mollie Damon.
And this is Star Wars Support part two.
[upbeat music] At Sadistic Samurai says, I have a Star Wars question for those who follow Star Wars.
Oh, that's us.
The stormtroopers in the original trilogy signed up for it like joining the army? They aren't clones like in the second trilogy or child soldiers like in the new trilogy? Correct. They are not clones.
The clones got phased out in between episodes three and four.
They were kind of a mixture of yes, people who believed in the empire and signed up.
Occasionally, they were also conscripts, So people forced into the army, but no they weren't kidnapped child soldiers the way that they were in the first order.
It's really a good example of how the empire kind of brainwashed the general public, because we see in a new hope how badly Luke wants to go off to the Imperial Academy.
Yeah, that's a good point.
A lot of people it was just kind of the only escape route.
Like Luke didn't like the empire, but to get off Tatooine and he had no other choice but to join the Imperial Academy.
At My name is Vador.
I have a question for you, who is your favorite character from Star Wars Legends? #StarWars #starwarslegends Star Wars Legends refers to, all of the Star Wars storytelling that was basically before the Disney acquisition.
So, it's what used to be known as, the Star Wars EU books and comics.
And then the movies started to come back out with the prequels and, honestly, George Lucas kinda changed a lot of stuff.
And so, you tried to adapt to make it all still work, but, yeah, basically anything that was prior to 2014 or so got classified as Star Wars Legends and is no longer part of the canon.
I jokingly say Gavin Darklighter a lot because if Biggs couldn't survive, I love seeing his cousin pop in, and he is a great pilot.
I do love pilots.
And I also love the Legends version of Wedge Antilles, just because he's so far has gotten to do a whole lot more in Legends than he has in canon.
I'm a big sucker for pilots.
I'll go with one that's probably a lot of people's answer and say, Mara Jade.
Just cause I can't get enough of awesome female Jedi.
And I love how her story starts with her being the emperor's hand evil then turns to a good guy.
I think it's pretty cool.
Plus, she's got a purple lightsaber.
And red hair.
Yeah, I am Mara Jane.
[chuckles] Black Lives Matters says, question Star Wars stans.
I want to start The Mandalorian but I really don't know much about Star Wars like y'all, so is it mad connected to the films or can I just watch it as a standalone? Like is it hard to follow otherwise? I think they did a pretty good job of letting that be an entry point into the galaxy.
Yeah, this is one of the things I love the most about The Mandalorian is that normies, as we might say, or people who haven't seen a lot of Star Wars, I think would love the show and there's little bits and pieces in the show for nerds like us to get excited about, but you really don't have to have seen any of the movies or TV shows to enjoy The Mandalorian.
I agree, I think that anything that is connected to other material is well explained, and if anything, it might make you more interested in some of those other Star Wars stories that you could dive into.
Mara Jade's Publicist says, Honest question, why does everyone in this Star Wars universe know every sub-clause of The Mandalorian creed but no one remembers the Jedi? [chuckles] On this planet we're still talking about the Knights of the Round Table.
That's funny.
It's a good point.
[Alex chuckles] I don't think that there was like a massive smear campaign against the Knights of the Round Table to hide their history.
And even then, I don't know the truth of the Knights of the Round Table.
I've mostly heard legends and stories, which I would say, probably most people don't know the truth of the Jedi and the Star Wars universe.
I do think it's a you right.
Everyone seems to know like, aren't you a Mandalorian? Aren't you supposed to do this or this.
[Mollie chuckles] With the finger wag.
I guess even though the Mandalorians have significantly decreased in their number, thanks to the Great Purge.
They still are around to some extent, they still seem to be known.
The Jedi were completely wiped out.
Also I think that, it's hard to kinda keep this in perspective, but the Jedi at their height numbered about 10,000 people in a galaxy of trillions.
So, not that many people really ever met a Jedi.
Mandalorians numbered more.
[chuckles] There were more Mandalorians than just 10,000.
So, I think that they were probably just more prevalent in the galaxy, even when the Jedi were at their height.
I'd say also, just on a very basic level, for instance, when Din Djarin goes into the bar and is looking for other Mandalorians, he basically says, someone who looks like me.
So, they're pretty recognizable.
Abby Simp Hours says, so, I have a lore question for my Star Wars moots.
Has the idea of the Jedi supposedly rebelling against the Republic ever been explored? Or Palpatine's use of retroactive history to sully the Jedi.
Have there been people who hate distrust the idea of Jedi because of this? Yes, they haven't done a whole lot with it.
It's mostly in the books, a little bit in the comics.
In Charles Soule's Darth Vader comic right after Revenge of the Sith, everyone seemed to be pretty pleased that the Jedi were killed off.
They seem to have bought into the lie that the Jedi rebelled against the Republic and tried to assassinate the chancellor.
Wasn't an explored a little bit in season seven of Clone Wars.
Like when Ahsoka is kinda out in the world, she isn't telling people outwardly that she's a Jedi.
And then once the two sisters find out that she is, they're like, Oh, Jedi are nothing but trouble, we don't want your help.
Yes, that's absolutely laying the groundwork for why people so easily we're like, yeah, forget the Jedi.
And I think you can see that in the films too.
I mean only 20 years later, no one seems to know who the Jedi were.
Palpatine was doing his best to just snuff out any mention of them.
People were pretty quick to forget who they were.
This is Euan says, okay, here's a Star Wars question.
With Palpatine being revealed in episode nine and revealed that Snoke was a clone.
Doesn't that break the Sith rule of two? Since Snoke was in technical sense Palpatine's apprentice and Snoke had Kylo as an apprentice that means there were three Sith.
Oh boy.
[Mollie chuckles] The rule of two is this Sith philosophy that there can only be two at any given time.
In Legends it was set up by Darth Bane, which is still true in canon, but there were a bunch of Sith at one point and Darth Bane was like, we're not getting anywhere because we keep fighting with each other.
So he was like, okay, here's how we fix this.
I'm gonna kill everybody except for myself.
And then I'm gonna take an apprentice and train them, teach them everything I know until they're strong enough to kill me.
Then they're gonna take an apprentice and do the same thing.
And then that way the Sith will only get stronger and stronger and they'll be living in secret instead of just taking things by brute force, they're gonna do basically what Palpatine did and rise politically and take power that way.
So Snoke and Kylo Ren are not Sith.
They do not follow Sith teachings, but that said, Palpatine has never really been a stickler for the rules.
Yeah, he seemed to have like one apprentice at a time but then that apprentice would have another apprentice that Palpatine would know about.
And he's like, ah, whatever.
Yeah, Palpatine had Maul as his apprentice.
He didn't work out, gave him the boot.
Then he had Count Dooku as his apprentice, found out Dooku had Ventress, got mad at Dooku, told him to kill her.
Palpatine was kinda the culmination of the Sith rule of two.
And I think that in his mind, he was like, it's not gonna go on without me.
He wanted to be the culmination of the Sith forever.
They're really bad at following their own rule.
Yeah, at Does Art 72 says, question for school, do you think the Rebel Alliance of Star Wars is a good example of desperation forcing others to adapt and survive? I feel like it is, because while the empire had vastly superior numbers and weapons, the Rebels had a reason to fight and managed to pull off the Battle of Scarif, Yavin, Endor, Jakku and abunch of others ones.
Yes, I feel like that's exactly what George Lucas has said, that the rebels were supposed to represent the scrappy group of underdogs coming up to win against the technologically superior force that was supposed to win.
It's just like the Vietnam War, the American Revolutionary War, it's happened a ton of times in history.
Yeah, it's the idea of the good guys always have a better reason to fight.
They have hope on their side as Star Wars loves to say.
Yeah, I think that that's a perfect description of how that works.
Let's talk Max Mercury asks, question for my Star Wars moots, do we think that the Mandalorian is set before or after the Battle of Jakku? They sound like they're keeping it a little vague on purpose so they can be flexible.
But the initial estimates, Jon Favreau said, that it takes place about five years after Return of the Jedi, which means that would be four years after the Battle of Jakku.
I think that there's room for them to mix it up.
But the new Republic is pretty much established at this point in the show.
I think it's well beyond the Battle of Jakku.
The Mechanic at comms open says, Star Wars fans quick question is the Clone Wars movie just a sum up of the series or did it happen before? Also rebels is after the Clone Wars.
And I saw someone made an order to watch the episodes but isn't it watchable normally? [Mollie chuckles] Oh boy, lots to unpack real quick.
The Clone Wars movie is basically just two or three episodes of the clone Wars crammed into a movie.
And so, it doesn't sum up the entire series.
It also didn't really happen before the series.
It happens like four episodes into the series.
As you said, someone made an order to watch the Eps.
You can watch it as it's listed on Disney+, but there is a chronological episode list because the series is very much out of order.
Yeah, you can find that list on starwars.com.
I prefer chronological.
I would watch it chronologically.
Yeah, I think I would too, because it just makes more sense.
It's a little bit of a hustle because you have to like check the list and you're gonna have to change episodes.
It gets to be more chronological after the first like two seasons.
You're not bouncing around as much.
Yeah, I'd say the most important thing about the Clone Wars movie is it introduces Ahsoka into the story.
Yes.
Rebels is after the Clone Wars.
Yeah, Rebels takes place after Clone Wars.
Neil Rhombus says, serious question.
If the Jedi are so strong why are there so few of them and why are they always trying to rebuild The Jedi Order? I think a lot of people think that the force makes Jedi just super powerful all the time, they're superheroes and they can do anything they want.
Being a Jedi accessing the force, it's not something you can just turn on and off.
Everyone has good days and bad days in the real world.
The same is true for the Jedi.
It's more of a mental thing of how balanced are you? How connected to the universe are you? How compassionate are you to the people around you? It's not something that it's just all the time I'm pulling Star Destroyer out of the sky.
Yeah, I wouldn't even say that the Jedi are that strong.
There are a few select Jedi that are pretty strong in the force, but overall, It's a fair assumption to make though.
I never fault anyone for acting like that's the case because I mean like the comics and some of the, a lot of legends material, The video games, definitely. The video games, yeah.
I mean the video games are video games, they want you to feel like you can do anything with the force, but what George Lucas has said, what the movies have said is, that it's more about keeping a mental balance within yourself.
Around the Galaxy says, question for my canon friends.
Was the Maw Installation from the Legends novel, Jedi Search, which also features Kessel, the inspiration for/related to the Maw and Solo a Star Wars story? I would say probably, [chuckles] can't say for sure, but Solo had so many little Legends Easter eggs in it that, yeah, I think they were like, Oh, let's throw the Maw in there.
It's a little different, at least the way we see it in Legends it was like a bunch of black holes near each other.
And Solo it's like just one big black hole.
Yeah, I don't think they would name it the Maw unless they were trying to make that little connection.
Yeah, I do think it's cool that after looking into so much trivia about all of the movies and TV shows that the Maw is not the monster a lot of people kinda got those two confused, the monster that attacks them and then get sucked into the Maw is the summa-verminoth.
That's even Han goes, is that the Maw? [Alex chuckles] Yeah, and it's like, nope, that big black hole sucking that into it as the Maw.
[chuckles] Mark's Forever Mandalorian says, here's a question for you.
Does Order 66 trigger the kill instinct for only Jedi or any nearby force users not named Palpatine or Skywalker? I've made this joke before, but I like to think that Palpatine basically had like a Google Doc, that he was adding and subtracting names too.
So, at first he has like all the Jedi on this spreadsheet.
And then if he starts to think like, Oh, there's a someone I think I could get to be an inquisitor.
I'll just take them out of there.
And like, Oh, well I think Anakin is probably gonna be my apprentice.
I'll just move him off the list.
Yeah, and then anyone who maybe owed him money added to the list, like, yeah, this person's a Jedi, this person's definitely a Jedi.
Just take them out too.
I like that.
[Mollie chuckles] But also like Ahsoka, it's not like she leaves the Jedi order and he's going to be like, Oh, well I guess she's safe now.
Yeah.
The Supreme Jedi says, question, why didn't Rey's body disappear when she died? What the force and Jedi stuff say about this? What's the theory.
So this is another hard one to talk about because Vader's body didn't die or disappear when he died but he still became a Force ghost.
And that's like a whole big thing where you're supposed to like go through specific training to become a Force ghost.
But Anakin also didn't go through that.
So why is he allowed to be a Force ghost at all? I don't think Ben went through that training, so, In my mind, I like to think of it as them being a Jedi.
How they died, if they died doing something that was like funneling them into the force, become basically yet becoming one with the force.
Obi-Wan kinda does it in a very brief moment on the Death Star.
He kinda backs off and he's like, okay, my job is done.
I put Luke and Rey together.
Ben kinda does it by funneling his life force to save Ray.
Luke dies or fades away shortly after doing the big force sacrifice.
I do think that there's something to that.
I would say that they are like becoming one with the force.
I think that Obi-Wan, I mean he knew, he like closes his eyes, he's preparing.
I don't know if he died because Vader hit him with a saber or if he just chose to become one with the force.
Yoda knew that he was old and sick, and he may have just said like, okay, I'm gonna become one with the forest now.
Same with Luke.
And I think that it's possible that Ben was like, I'm going to give Ray my life force and I will become one with the force.
He knew that he was gonna die doing that.
So yeah, I think that there's something to that.
Ray maybe didn't have that intent.
I could also say, that maybe she didn't disappear because the force like the cosmic force knew like, okay, hold on, we know something's about to happen, like leave her body.
Yeah, I like that theory.
The idea that she didn't automatically disappear because let's say the wills just knew, okay, Ben is going to do the right thing finally and save Ray, so yeah.
At Overlord Mikey says, I just thought about this, but if the baby Yoda creature is over 50 years old how old is Yoda supposed to be? How do you live that long and never questioned Jedi teachings, which I'd like to point out are incredibly unhealthy and messed up.
Guess they just had a long time to brainwash him.
So yeah, Yoda is supposed to be 900 years old when he dies.
I do think they're going to talk about this.
I don't know how he relates to Jedi teachings because he's going to be in the High Republic Era.
It sounds like the Jedi are going to be very different 200 years prior to like the prequels and everything.
So I think we're gonna get to see maybe Yoda's mindset change over that period of time.
Yeah, I've I've said it before but I hope the Yoda that we see in the High Republic is like bad boy Yoda.
Just sticking it to the man, questioning everything.
I don't think that'll happen, but that would be my dream.
I think he'll be different.
[Mollie chuckles] Brian C. Wood says, I have a Star Wars question I don't think anyone has ever asked , if a funeral pyre is the traditional Jedi funeral.
Then how long do the mourners stand around the Pyre and what happens to the ashes? Are they stored someplace? And who collects them? Temple monks? I don't know how long everyone has to stand around and respectfully watch a body burn.
[Mollie chuckles] Maybe that is up to the Jedi and how great their deeds were.
[Alex chuckles] I assume the ashes would be taken back to the Jedi temple.
In the case of Vader, Luke didn't stick around for a long and we know that Vader's mask got picked up.
Yeah, it sounds like Luke just kinda set it on fire and like watched for a second was like, all right, I'm going to the party.
But we also know that funeral pyre wasn't the only way the Jedi funerals happened.
Like Jetta, there were tombs.
There were a bunch of different alternatives.
So maybe Qui-Gon just had in his will, like a funeral pyre please.
Yeah, we talked recently about whether or not Jedi's had wills.
And I think that that's plausible.
The Lady of the Lake says, a question about The Rise of Skywalker I have is, was Snoke like a meat puppet that Palpatine used via the force or was he his own living, breathing entity that was just being manipulated? Or was he a clone grown poorly? Well, I think you could argue that he's all of these things.
[chuckles] Yeah, that's kinda true.
So Palpatine does claim to be every voice that Ben solo has ever heard inside his head.
I don't think that Snoke was strictly a meat puppet.
I do think that he had free will so to speak.
I don't think he was aware of who or what he was, but from what I've gathered, I think Palpatine put in, he was basically a programmed person of saying like, here's where you come from.
Here's what your goals are.
You need to train this kid, like seduce him to the dark side, bring him over and then train him.
He basically had a preloaded Yeah.
Disposition.
Yeah, I don't think he had free will so to speak, but also I don't think he was just constantly controlled, in that same scene Palpatine does say, Snoke trained you well, I don't know.
It can go either way, frankly, but that's just my best guess.
Do you think that Palpatine purposefully made him to look mangled and scarred so that Kylo would think that Luke did that to him.
There's comic, The Rise of Kylo Ren and he meets up with Snoke and says, what did master Luke do to you? Which suggest that Snoke didn't always look that way, but then why is there a vat of those clones in The Rise of Skywalker, looking already messed up? [Mollie chuckles] I don't know.
I think that was maybe a Palpatine on purpose.
I think maybe he wanted another gross looking person to hang out with so he wasn't the only one.
[Mollie chuckles] Thank you so much for your questions.
They were great.
There were some funny ones.
There were some questions that I had never even thought of before.
So, we always love when we're surprised by Star Wars questions.
We talk about Star Wars basically every day and we're still learning new things and it's fantastic to see so many people, so interested still in the franchise.
Yeah, so thank you again.
And this has been Star Wars Support.
Gordon Ramsay Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Ken Jeong Answers Medical Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter Blizzard's Jeff Kaplan Answers Overwatch Questions From Twitter Nick Offerman Answers Woodworking Questions From Twitter Bungie's Luke Smith Answers Destiny Questions From Twitter Jackie Chan & Olivia Munn Answer Martial Arts Questions From Twitter Scott Kelly Answers Astronaut Questions From Twitter LaVar Ball Answers Basketball Questions From Twitter Dillon Francis Answers DJ Questions From Twitter Tony Hawk Answers Skateboarding Questions From Twitter Jerry Rice Answers Football Questions From Twitter Garry Kasparov Answers Chess Questions From Twitter U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Athletes Answer Olympics Questions From Twitter Neuroscientist Anil Seth Answers Neuroscience Questions From Twitter Blizzard's Ben Brode Answers Hearthstone Questions From Twitter John Cena Answers Wrestling Questions From Twitter The Slow Mo Guys Answer Slow Motion Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Even More Science Questions From Twitter James Cameron Answers Sci-Fi Questions From Twitter Best of Tech Support: Bill Nye, Neil DeGrasse Tyson and More Answer Science Questions from Twitter Riot Games' Greg Street Answers League of Legends Questions from Twitter Riot Games' Greg Street Answers Even More League of Legends Questions from Twitter PlayerUnknown Answers PUBG Questions From Twitter Liza Koshy, Markiplier, Rhett & Link, and Hannah Hart Answer YouTube Creator Questions From Twitter NCT 127 Answer K-Pop Questions From Twitter Neil deGrasse Tyson Answers Science Questions From Twitter Ken Jeong Answers More Medical Questions From Twitter Bon Appétit's Brad & Claire Answer Cooking Questions From Twitter Bang Bang Answers Tattoo Questions From Twitter Ed Boon Answers Mortal Kombat 11 Questions From Twitter Nick Jonas and Kelly Clarkson Answer Singing Questions from Twitter Penn Jillette Answers Magic Questions From Twitter The Russo Brothers Answer Avengers: Endgame Questions From Twitter Alex Honnold Answers Climbing Questions From Twitter Sloane Stephens Answers Tennis Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter - Part 3 Astronaut Nicole Stott Answers Space Questions From Twitter Mark Cuban Answers Mogul Questions From Twitter Ubisoft's Alexander Karpazis Answers Rainbow Six Siege Questions From Twitter Marathon Champion Answers Running Questions From Twitter Ninja Answers Fortnite Questions From Twitter Cybersecurity Expert Answers Hacking Questions From Twitter Bon Appétit's Brad & Chris Answer Thanksgiving Questions From Twitter SuperM Answers K-Pop Questions From Twitter The Best of Tech Support: Ken Jeong, Bill Nye, Nicole Stott and More Twitter's Jack Dorsey Answers Twitter Questions From Twitter Jodie Whittaker Answers Doctor Who Questions From Twitter Astronomer Jill Tarter Answers Alien Questions From Twitter Tattoo Artist Bang Bang Answers More Tattoo Questions From Twitter Respawn Answers Apex Legends Questions From Twitter Michael Strahan Answers Super Bowl Questions From Twitter Dr. Martin Blaser Answers Coronavirus Questions From Twitter Scott Adkins Answers Martial Arts Training Questions From Twitter Psychiatrist Daniel Amen Answers Brain Questions From Twitter The Hamilton Cast Answers Hamilton Questions From Twitter Travis & Lyn-Z Pastrana Answer Stunt Questions From Twitter Mayim Bialik Answers Neuroscience Questions From Twitter Zach King Answers TikTok Questions From Twitter Riot Games Answers League of Legends Questions from Twitter Aaron Sorkin Answers Screenwriting Questions From Twitter Survivorman Les Stroud Answers Survival Questions From Twitter Joe Manganiello Answers Dungeons & Dragons Questions From Twitter "Star Wars Explained" Answers Star Wars Questions From Twitter Wizards of the Coast Answer Magic: The Gathering Questions From Twitter "Star Wars Explained" Answers More Star Wars Questions From Twitter VFX Artist Answers Movie & TV VFX Questions From Twitter CrossFit Coach Answers CrossFit Questions From Twitter Yo-Yo Ma Answers Cello Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers Cadaver Questions From Twitter Babish Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Jacob Collier Answers Music Theory Questions From Twitter The Lord of the Rings Expert Answers More Tolkien Questions From Twitter Wolfgang Puck Answers Restaurant Questions From Twitter Fast & Furious Car Expert Answers Car Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers Body Language Questions From Twitter Olympian Dominique Dawes Answers Gymnastics Questions From Twitter Allyson Felix Answers Track Questions From Twitter Dr. Michio Kaku Answers Physics Questions From Twitter Former NASA Astronaut Answers Space Questions From Twitter Surgeon Answers Surgery Questions From Twitter Beekeeper Answers Bee Questions From Twitter Michael Pollan Answers Psychedelics Questions From Twitter Ultramarathoner Answers Questions From Twitter Bug Expert Answers Insect Questions From Twitter Former Cult Member Answers Cult Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers MORE Dead Body Questions From Twitter Toxicologist Answers Poison Questions From Twitter Brewmaster Answers Beer Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers Biology Questions From Twitter James Dyson Answers Design Questions From Twitter Dermatologist Answers Skin Questions From Twitter Dwyane Wade Answers Basketball Questions From Twitter Baker Answers Baking Questions from Twitter Astrophysicist Answers Questions From Twitter Age Expert Answers Aging Questions From Twitter Fertility Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Biological Anthropologist Answers Love Questions From Twitter Mathematician Answers Math Questions From Twitter Statistician Answers Stats Questions From Twitter Sleep Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Botanist Answers Plant Questions From Twitter Ornithologist Answers Bird Questions From Twitter Alex Honnold Answers MORE Rock Climbing Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers MORE Body Language Questions From Twitter Waste Expert Answers Garbage Questions From Twitter Garbage Boss Answers Trash Questions From Twitter J. Kenji López-Alt Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Veterinarian Answers Pet Questions From Twitter Doctor Answers Gut Questions From Twitter Chemist Answers Chemistry Questions From Twitter Taste Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Paleontologist Answers Dinosaur Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers More Biology Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers Even More Biology Questions From Twitter ER Doctor Answers Injury Questions From Twitter Toxicologist Answers More Poison Questions From Twitter Energy Expert Answers Energy Questions From Twitter BBQ Pitmaster Answers BBQ Questions From Twitter Neil Gaiman Answers Mythology Questions From Twitter Sushi Chef Answers Sushi Questions From Twitter The Lord of the Rings Expert Answers Tolkien Questions From Twitter Audiologist Answers Hearing Questions From Twitter Marine Biologist Answers Shark Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter - Part 4 John McEnroe Answers Tennis Questions From Twitter Malcolm Gladwell Answers Research Questions From Twitter Financial Advisor Answers Money Questions From Twitter Stanford Computer Scientist Answers Coding Questions From Twitter Wildlife Vet Answers Wild Animal Questions From Twitter Climate Scientist Answers Earth Questions From Twitter Medical Doctor Answers Hormone Questions From Twitter James Hoffmann Answers Coffee Questions From Twitter Video Game Director Answers Questions From Twitter Robotics Professor Answers Robot Questions From Twitter Scam Fighters Answer Scam Questions From Twitter Forensics Expert Answers Crime Scene Questions From Twitter Chess Pro Answers Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers Body Language Questions From Twitter...Once Again Memory Champion Answers Questions From Twitter Neuroscientist Answers Illusion Questions From Twitter Immunologist Answers Immune System Questions From Twitter Rocket Scientists Answer Questions From Twitter How Vinyl Records Are Made (with Third Man Records) Neurosurgeon Answers Brain Surgery Questions From Twitter Therapist Answers Relationship Questions From Twitter Polyphia's Tim Henson Answers Guitar Questions From Twitter Structural Engineer Answers City Questions From Twitter Harvard Professor Answers Happiness Questions From Twitter A.I. Expert Answers A.I. Questions From Twitter Pizza Chef Answers Pizza Questions From Twitter Former CIA Chief of Disguise Answers Spy Questions From Twitter Astrophysicist Answers Space Questions From Twitter Cannabis Scientist Answers Questions From Twitter Sommelier Answers Wine Questions From Twitter Mycologist Answers Mushroom Questions From Twitter Genndy Tartakovsky Answers Animation Questions From Twitter Pro Card Counter Answers Casino Questions From Twitter Doctor Answers Lung Questions From Twitter Paul Hollywood & Prue Leith Answer Baking Questions From Twitter Geneticist Answers Genetics Questions From Twitter Sneaker Expert Jeff Staple Answers Sneaker Questions From Twitter 'The Points Guy' Brian Kelly Answers Travel Questions From Twitter Master Chef Answers Indian Food & Curry Questions From Twitter Archaeologist Answers Archaeology Questions From Twitter LegalEagle's Devin Stone Answers Law Questions From Twitter Todd McFarlane Answers Comics Questions From Twitter Reptile Expert Answers Reptile Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers Burial Questions From Twitter Eye Doctor Answers Eye Questions From Twitter Computer Scientist Answers Computer Questions From Twitter Neurologist Answers Nerve Questions From Twitter Hacker Answers Penetration Test Questions From Twitter Nutritionist Answers Nutrition Questions From Twitter Experts Predict the Future of Technology, AI & Humanity Doctor Answers Blood Questions From Twitter Sports Statistician Answers Sports Math Questions From Twitter Shark Tank's Mark Cuban Answers Business Questions From Twitter Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 Director Answers Video Game Questions From Twitter Criminologist Answers True Crime Questions From Twitter Physicist Answers Physics Questions From Twitter | Tech Support Chess Pro Answers More Questions From Twitter Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
