The Verge homepage The Verge homepage The Verge The Verge logo.
/ Tech / Reviews / Science / Entertainment / More Menu Expand Menu Command Line / Artificial Intelligence / Tech What happened to Sam Altman? What happened to Sam Altman? / The face of the AI boom has been fired from OpenAI. What comes next is anyone’s guess.
By Alex Heath , a deputy editor and author of the Command Line newsletter. He’s covered the tech industry for over a decade at The Information and other outlets.
| Share this story If you buy something from a Verge link, Vox Media may earn a commission.
See our ethics statement.
On Thursday night, Sam Altman showed up at a warehouse in Oakland to talk to a room full of artists about generative AI. It was a busy day; just hours before, he was onstage at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Summit in downtown San Francisco speaking to world leaders.
At the Oakland warehouse, Altman was his usual self, cheering OpenAI’s work and coming across as relaxed, according to someone in the audience. He couldn’t linger, though. At about 7:40PM he told the room that he was running late to a meeting and bounced.
It would be his last public appearance as the CEO of OpenAI. On Friday, he was suddenly fired by the company’s board of directors for not being “consistently candid in his communications.” Employees found out about the news at the same time as everyone else. Even Microsoft, which has plowed billions of dollars into the company, found out only moments before.
Start your Command Line free trial now to continue reading This story is exclusively for subscribers of Command Line , our newsletter about the tech industry’s inside conversation. Subscribe to a plan below for full access.
Already a Command Line subscriber? Sign in We accept credit card, Apple Pay, and Google Pay. Having issues? Click here for FAQ Sam Altman fired as CEO of OpenAI Breaking: OpenAI board in discussions with Sam Altman to return as CEO Windows is now an app for iPhones, iPads, Macs, and PCs Screens are good, actually What happened to Sam Altman? Verge Deals / Sign up for Verge Deals to get deals on products we've tested sent to your inbox daily.
From our sponsor Advertiser Content From More from this stream Turmoil at OpenAI: after firing Sam Altman, what’s next for the home of ChatGPT? OpenAI board in discussions with Sam Altman to return as CEO Nov 18, 2023, 10:44 PM UTC Sam Altman says he has a new venture in mind.
Nov 18, 2023, 9:46 PM UTC OpenAI’s COO told employees that Sam Altman wasn’t fired for “malfeasance.” Nov 18, 2023, 6:38 PM UTC Three high-level OpenAI researchers have quit.
Nov 18, 2023, 3:12 PM UTC Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell Or Share My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status How We Rate and Review Products Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement The Verge is a vox media network Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2023 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved
