Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Alex Davies Transportation Ford Says It’ll Have a Fleet of Fully Autonomous Cars in Just 5 Years FORD Save this story Save Save this story Save More than a century after introducing the Model T, Ford hopes to once again change how the masses move.
The company announced this morning that it will have thousands of fully autonomous vehicles in urban car-sharing and ride-hailing fleets by 2021. To achieve that goal, the company will double, to 300, the number of people at its Silicon Valley research center and add 60 autonomous vehicles to the fleet of 30 already deployed there.
The five-year timeline isn't terribly aggressive. Google, Nissan, and Mercedes-Benz see autonomous vehicles on the road by 2020, and Chinese tech giant Baidu says it will have the technology in 2019. But none of them has made promises as specific as those Fields made today. "We see the upcoming decade for the automobile really centered around the automation of the automobile," CEO Mark Fields says.
Many automakers already offer limited automation in vehicles like the Tesla Model S and Model X ( which have had trouble ), and the Mercedes E-Class ( that one's a bit confusing ). But Ford, like Google, wants nothing less than full autonomy , a designation the Society of American Engineers calls "Level 4." Fields says the fleet in Silicon Valley won't even have steering wheels or pedals.
Ford seems to have most of the pieces needed to do that. In July, it invested in Civil Maps, a Berkeley, California, startup that makes the software needed to turn LiDAR data into maps robo-cars can read and automakers can update. The automaker just invested heavily in LiDAR manufacturer Velodyne, a bid to cut make the technology far more affordable ---the spinning bucket atop each Google car costs about $85,000. And it signed an exclusive licensing deal with Nirenberg Neuroscience to use that company's machine vision and deep learning tech. Israeli startup Saips will provide further help there with technology that helps robo-cars identify pedestrians, garbage cans and the like.
The big question is who will run the fleet. GM has signed on with with Lyft, while Uber is doing its own research, and Apple---which won't confirm it's developing a car---invested $1 billion in Chinese ride-sharing service Didi.
 Ford doesn't have a dance partner, but, Fields says, "We have lots of options, and we talk with everyone." Field's won't say what the car might look like or where you'll see them beyond "dense urban areas." But the commitment underscores how serious Ford is about autonomy. "It fits very nicely with who we are as a company," he says. "Autonomous vehicles could potentially have the same impact on society that Henry Ford's moving assembly line had." The company that made the Model T ubiquitous wants to do the same with autonomous tech.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg Senior Associate Editor Facebook X Instagram Topics automobiles cars Self-Driving Cars Super Bowl Steven Levy Will Knight Boone Ashworth Andy Greenberg Boone Ashworth Ramin Skibba Eric Ravenscraft Adrienne So Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
