Vox homepage Give Give Newsletters Newsletters Site search Search Vox main menu Explainers Crossword Video Podcasts Politics Policy Culture Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters More Explainers Israel-Hamas war 2024 election Supreme Court Buy less stuff Open enrollment What to watch All explainers Crossword Video Podcasts Politics Policy Culture Science Technology Climate Health Money Life Future Perfect Newsletters We have a request Vox's journalism is free, because we believe that everyone deserves to understand the world they live in. Reader support helps us do that. Can you chip in to help keep Vox free for all? × Navigation for Technology Big Tech Social Media Innovation Privacy Future of Work Tech Policy Power More navigation items for Technology Big Tech Social Media Innovation Privacy Future of Work Tech Policy Power Show All Technology Uncovering and explaining how our digital world is changing — and changing us.
AI that’s smarter than humans? Americans say a firm “no thank you.” By Sigal Samuel September 19 Google’s free AI isn’t just for search anymore By Sara Morrison September 19 Has Apple Pay made it too easy to spend money? By Whizy Kim September 18 How Covid misinformation stayed one step ahead of Facebook By A.W. Ohlheiser September 16 Apple has an AirPod repair problem By Pranav Dixit September 16 TikTok’s shopping push left my For You page in shambles By A.W. Ohlheiser September 14 Elizabeth Warren created a federal agency once. Can she do it again? By Sara Morrison September 14 The big Elon Musk biography asks all the wrong questions By Constance Grady September 13 Hey, remember those Apple wonder goggles? By Peter Kafka September 12 Filed under: The rise of artificial intelligence, explained What if AI treats humans the way we treat animals? By Marina Bolotnikova September 7 Filed under: The rise of artificial intelligence, explained What the stories we tell about robots tell us about ourselves By Constance Grady September 7 Filed under: The rise of artificial intelligence, explained Can AI learn to love — and can we learn to love it? By Alissa Wilkinson September 7 Filed under: The rise of artificial intelligence, explained Silicon Valley’s vision for AI? It’s religion, repackaged.
By Sigal Samuel September 7 Filed under: The rise of artificial intelligence, explained What will love and death mean in the age of machine intelligence? By Tahmima Anam September 7 Don’t upgrade your iPhone until you have to By Adam Clark Estes September 7 Elon Musk’s strange new feud with a Jewish anti-hate group, explained By Zack Beauchamp September 6 Google is facing yet another major antitrust lawsuit By Sara Morrison September 6 Burning Man’s climate protesters have a point By Adam Clark Estes September 3 Public phone chargers are convenient, but are they also dangerous? By Sara Morrison September 1 Is the AI boom already over? By Sara Morrison August 28 Video Something weird happens when you keep squeezing Under extreme pressures, matter defies the rules of physics as we know it.
Play video for Something weird happens when you keep squeezing Why everyone hates this concrete building And why brutalism dominates US college campuses.
Play video for Why everyone hates this concrete building Sign up for the Vox video newsletter Don’t miss our new video projects, returning series, and opportunities to get involved with our reporting.
vox-mark Sign up for the newsletter Sentences The day's most important news stories, explained in your inbox.
Thanks for signing up! Check your inbox for a welcome email.
Email (required) Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again.
Explainers The controversy over TikTok and Osama bin Laden’s “Letter to America,” explained Why bin Laden’s 2002 letter became the latest TikTok moral panic.
America has the world’s safest air travel but sucks so bad at car safety By Marina Bolotnikova August 25 AI-discovered drugs will be for sale sooner than you think By Rachel DuRose August 25 Is YouTube tracking your kids again? By Sara Morrison August 25 Even Elon Musk can’t fully wreck Twitter’s one great superpower By Peter Kafka August 24 Netflix is just giving DVDs away now By Adam Clark Estes August 23 San Francisco’s robotaxi experiment is getting out of hand By Avishay Artsy August 19 What normal Americans — not AI companies — want for AI By Sigal Samuel August 18 How does Elon Musk get away with it all? By Constance Grady August 17 The LED light revolution has only just begun By Umair Irfan August 14 Why in the world are Elon and Zuck planning to punch each other? By Whizy Kim and Nicole Narea August 14 Is Zoom using your meetings to train its AI? By Sara Morrison August 9 Why a “room-temperature superconductor” would be a huge deal By Dylan Matthews August 7 ChatGPT could make bioterrorism horrifyingly easy By Jonas Sandbrink August 7 The future of cities, according to the experts By Rani Molla August 7 The creator of Black Mirror is okay with tech. People, on the other hand ...
By Peter Kafka August 4 Why Meta’s move to make its new AI open source is more dangerous than you think By Kelsey Piper August 2 Workers are mad as hell this summer By Rani Molla August 2 Meta is now blocking news in Canada By Sara Morrison August 1 Filed under: The rise of artificial intelligence, explained The AI rules that US policymakers are considering, explained By Dylan Matthews August 1 Why TikTokers are drinking laundry detergent By A.W. Ohlheiser July 29 Podcasts Helping you understand the most important news in the world, five days a week Go right up to the edge of what we know … and then keep going Embrace uncertainty vox-mark Sign up for the newsletter VoxCare Dylan Scott guides you through the fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic and the health care policies that matter most.
Thanks for signing up! Check your inbox for a welcome email.
Email (required) Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again.
Pagination Page 1 of 15 Chorus Facebook Twitter YouTube About us Our staff Privacy policy Ethics & Guidelines How we make money Contact us How to pitch Vox Contact Send Us a Tip Vox Media Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media
