Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Caitlin Harrington Staff Writer Caitlin Harrington is a staff writer at WIRED. Before coming to WIRED as a research fellow, Harrington worked as an editorial fellow at San Francisco magazine and as a certified medical dosimetrist in the radiation oncology field. She earned her bachelor’s degree in English from Boston University and lives in San Francisco.
X Business Obamacare Call Center Staff Strike Over Steep Health Care Costs and Scarce Bathroom Breaks Business This AI Bot Fills Out Job Applications for You While You Sleep Business Apple Store Workers Fear the Tech Giant Is Dodging Accountability for Shady Labor Practices Business This Woman Exec Beat Google in Court—and Hopes Others Follow Business Job Hunting Sucks. This Programmer Filled Out 250 Applications to Find Out Why Business Epic Games’ Sale of Bandcamp Has Left the Artist-Friendly Music Platform in Limbo Business This Exec Is Forcing Google Into Its First Trial Over Sexist Pay Discrimination Business Amazon’s All-Powerful ‘Buy Box’ Is at the Heart of Its New Antitrust Troubles Business Workers Demand Job Security in the Autonomous, Electrified Future of Transport Business Pay Transparency Is Sweeping Across the US Business Autoworkers Prepare to Strike for a Place in the EV Future Business Grindr’s Return-to-Office Ultimatum Has Gutted a Uniquely Queer Space in Tech Business How Amazon’s In-House First Aid Clinics Push Injured Employees to Keep Working Business Uber and Lyft Drivers Have Some Advice for Autonomous Vehicles Set to Swarm the Streets Business Someone Has to Deliver Your Packages in This Scorching Heat Business ChatGPT Is Reshaping Crowd Work Business His Drivers Organized—Then Amazon Tried to Terminate His Contract Business Amazon Workers Walk Out Over Layoffs and Broken Climate Promises Business CNET Published AI-Generated Stories. Then Its Staff Pushed Back Business You Trained the Chatbot to Do Your Job. Why Didn’t You Get Paid? More Stories Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
