Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Why The Average Human Couldn't Drive An F1 Car About Released on 07/06/2023 So in order to be a great Formula 1 driver, you need to have the cognitive capabilities of a chess grandmaster, the strength, stamina, and reactions of a fighter, and then you also have to have the endurance of a marathon runner.
[Narrator] It's these unique set of skills that would make it pretty much impossible for an average human to drive an F1 car.
[grungy rock music] My name is Clayton Green, and I used to be F1 performance coach to Sir Lewis Hamilton back in the 2010 season.
Here's a sketch of the Silverstone Circuit that I put together.
Silverstone is a particularly unique Formula 1 Grand Prix.
It's extremely prestigious.
It's one that the drivers find distinctly challenging.
It's a wonderful blend of high-speed corners and heavy braking zones, and it thoroughly entertains both the crowd and the drivers when they're racing.
[tense electronic music] [engine revving] [engine roaring] So Formula 1 drivers looking to get the quickest and best launch that they possibly can at the start of the race, the average reaction time for an F1 driver is normally around 200 milliseconds.
[Narrator] Sprinters like Usain Bolt are only a fraction quicker, launching into a sprint roughly 160 milliseconds after the starting pistol.
But your typical human being, like you and me, we tend to be more around 500 to 600 milliseconds.
[Narrator] F1 cars are so fast that just a 200-millisecond head-start gives a driver a 10-meter lead.
Mental composure and quick reflexes are essential for avoiding horrific crashes, which are all too easy in Silverstone's Hamilton Straight, where drivers go full pelt before the first turn.
This is the point one driver was hurled upside down over the safety barriers last year when another car swerved towards him from the left.
These are the kind of collisions you're constantly exposed to throughout Silverstone.
And to avoid this, F1 drivers train up their reflexes by exercises like this, where they tap off as many lights as possible in 30 seconds.
An F1 driver's the best in the world at this exercise.
The current world record is held by British driver Jenson Button, who was going so fast, he was averaging two lights per second.
[equipment creaking] [suspenseful music] Now, as our lap progresses, one of the bits that drivers most enjoy are the high-speed corners.
And around Silverstone, we're looking at areas such as Maggotts and Becketts, where you're carrying immense speed, probably going at the full speed of the car but doing still some small but dramatic changes in direction.
Traditionally, most of the Formula 1 circuits tend to go around in a clockwise direction.
If you're turning to the right, it means that the G-force is gonna want to take your head off to the left.
You have a force of the equivalent of like 40 kilos hitting you in the back of the head, that literally wants to take your head clean off your shoulders, and you've got to resist that.
[Narrator] This kind of force would make it impossible for the average person to support their own head, causing them to lose sight of the track ahead and inevitably crash.
Lewis Hamilton and Fernando Alonso both have neck sizes of 18 inches.
That's compared to 15 inches for the average man.
And this kind of neck strength prevents serious injury.
The pair had a near-fatal crash last year in the first lap of the Belgium Grand Prix, with Lewis Hamilton's car experiencing an immense 45 G of force.
Hamilton's neck would've been hurled in several unpredictable directions as his car flipped.
This is the kind of collision that would give the average person at best severe whiplash and at worst a fatal break.
And it's comparable, really, only to things like fighter jets and fighter pilots and the kind of extreme maneuvers that they would have to pull in their planes.
Now, this is an example of a neck harness.
It's worn like so.
You would have someone literally pulling a force against the driver's head, and they have to tense up to stop their head from being moved.
So the neck musculature that the neck training is gonna work on for the F1 driver, which are gonna stop the head from being pulled forwards or sideways, sternocleidomastoid, the trapezius muscle.
And they're gonna really have to be very strong and very adaptive to generate these forces quickly and change.
[suspenseful electronic music] [Narrator] Braking a normal car requires an easy right or left tap of the car, but F1 cars are another ballgame.
Stopping a Formula 1 car requires you to stamp really hard on the brake pedal and then just bleed the pressure off gradually.
[Narrator] The extreme weight of the G-force means you're essentially pushing against 100 kilograms, or 220 pounds, again and again.
Imagine only using one leg to push up the weight of a baby elephant hundreds of times over the course of 90 minutes.
You'd be using all the muscles in your quadriceps, in your hamstrings at the back of the thigh, your glutes, and also your calf muscles as well.
[Narrator] Without leg strength, you'd simply be unable to brake the car, flying off the track and over the safety barriers at the first sharp turn on the Silverstone Circuit.
[suspenseful music] [engine humming] There'll come a point at least once in the race, possibly twice, and we need to change the tires, coming into the pit lane.
[Narrator] And how the drivers pick up the fact they need to change tires, they use their inner ear balance, or vestibular function, to sense when their tires have lost grip.
You might rely on your inner ear balance to sense when you're going up or down on a lift, for example.
Younger drivers, like Lando Norris, who practice on eSports steering wheels, aren't as in tune with this as older drivers like Lewis Hamilton.
Drivers such as Lewis Hamilton are particularly good at being able to pick up on those cues, and they'll be able to take you 'round that in-lap as quickly as possible and get you into your pit stop, even with pretty much zero grip left on those tires.
[Narrator] Without being able to sense the loss of your tire grip, each lap becomes increasingly uncontrolled and dangerous.
So the chances of your car swerving out of control and crashing before you even got to the pit stop are probably very high.
[upbeat electronic music] As we get into the last quarter of the race, what starts to get you will be the temperature as it builds up in the body and the muscular and mental fatigue.
A Formula 1 cockpit is quite a unique environment.
The track temperature could easily be 50 degrees Celsius.
The tires, they tend to run at 100 degrees Celsius.
The front brakes are running at 1,000 degrees Celsius.
You've sweated so much at this point in time.
You could easily have lost 3 to 5% of your body weight.
Any losses of even 2% will start to have an impact on reaction times, decision-making.
Even those slight differences will make a big difference to your overall lap time and how you finish the race.
This is an example of one overall that a driver might wear.
[Narrator] The material is fireproof- so, very thick and hot.
In a cockpit that can reach up to 60 degrees, they need the cardio of an elite marathon runner to regulate their temperature.
They need to have a really well-conditioned cardiovascular system, 'cause their heart rate could easily be running at 170, 180 beats per minute for the entirety of a race.
That would be around about, probably about 80% of most people's kind of maximum heart rate.
Your elite marathon runners would be sustaining that kind of intensity for a two-hour marathon.
[Narrator] Being light and lean is essential for regulating heat.
The average driver is less than 70 kilos, or 150 pounds, and has less than 12% body fat.
A person weighing 90 kilos, or 200 pounds, with 20% body fat would struggle to deal with these harsh temperatures, losing focus and reaction speed in these final laps, ultimately making a controlled finish impossible.
[engine revving] And it's a driver's physical and mental resilience to these pressures that ultimately decides the winner.
[car whizzing] [thrilling music] So still see yourself in an F1 car? [engine revving] You might have a bit of work to do first.
[engine roaring] [suspenseful electronic music] How the Disco Clam Uses Light to Fight Super-Strong Predators Architect Explains How Homes Could be 3D Printed on Mars and Earth Scientist Explains How Rare Genetics Allow Some to Sleep Only 4 Hours a Night Scientist Explains Unsinkable Metal That Could Prevent Disasters at Sea Is Invisibility Possible? An Inventor and a Physicist Explain Scientist Explains Why Her Lab Taught Rats to Drive Tiny Cars Mycologist Explains How a Slime Mold Can Solve Mazes How the Two-Hour Marathon Limit Was Broken Research Suggests Cats Like Their Owners as Much as Dogs Researcher Explains Deepfake Videos Scientist Explains How to Study the Metabolism of Ultra High Flying Geese Hurricane Hunter Explains How They Track and Predict Hurricanes Scientist Explains Viral Fish Cannon Video A Biohacker Explains Why He Turned His Leg Into a Hotspot Scientist Explains What Water Pooling in Kilauea's Volcanic Crater Means Bill Nye Explains the Science Behind Solar Sailing Vision Scientist Explains Why These Praying Mantises Are Wearing 3D Glasses Why Some Cities Are Banning Facial Recognition Technology Scientist's Map Explains Climate Change Scientist Explains How Moon Mining Would Work Scientist Explains How She Captured Rare Footage of a Giant Squid Doctor Explains How Sunscreen Affects Your Body Stranger Things is Getting a New Mall! But Today Malls Are Dying. What Happened? The Limits of Human Endurance Might Be Our Guts Meet the First College Students to Launch a Rocket Into Space Scientist Explains Why Dogs Can Smell Better Than Robots A Harvard Professor Explains What the Avengers Can Teach Us About Philosophy NASA Twin Study: How Space Changes Our Bodies What the Black Hole Picture Means for Researchers Scientist Explains How to Levitate Objects With Sound Why Scientists and Artists Want The Blackest Substances on Earth Biologist Explains How Drones Catching Whale "Snot" Helps Research Researcher Explains Why Humans Can't Spot Real-Life Deepfake Masks Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About The Coronavirus VFX Artist Breaks Down This Year's Best Visual Effects Nominees How Doctors on Earth Treated a Blood Clot in Space Scientist Explains Why Some Cats Eat Human Corpses Voting Expert Explains How Voting Technology Will Impact the 2020 Election Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About Pandemics ER Doctor Explains How They're Handling Covid-19 Why This Taste Map Is Wrong Q&A: What's Next for the Coronavirus Pandemic? Why Captive Tigers Can’t Be Reintroduced to the Wild How Covid-19 Immunity Compares to Other Diseases 5 Mistakes to Avoid as We Try to Stop Covid-19 How This Emergency Ventilator Could Keep Covid-19 Patients Alive Why NASA Made a Helicopter for Mars Theoretical Physicist Breaks Down the Marvel Multiverse Former NASA Astronaut Explains Jeff Bezos's Space Flight Physics Student Breaks Down Gymnastics Physics What Do Cities Look Like Under a Microscope? Inside the Largest Bitcoin Mine in The U.S.
How Caffeine Has Fueled History How Mushroom Time-Lapses Are Filmed Why You’ll Fail the Milk Crate Challenge Why Vegan Cheese Doesn't Melt How 250 Cameras Filmed Neill Blomkamp's Demonic How Meme Detectives Stop NFT Fraud How Disney Designed a Robotic Spider-Man How Online Conspiracy Groups Compare to Cults Dune Costume Designers Break Down Dune’s Stillsuits Korean Phrases You Missed in 'Squid Game' Why Scientists Are Stress Testing Tardigrades Every Prototype that Led to a Realistic Prosthetic Arm Why the Toilet Needs an Upgrade How Animals Are Evolving Because of Climate Change How Stop-Motion Movies Are Animated at Aardman Astronomer Explains How NASA Detects Asteroids Are We Living In A Simulation? Inside the Journey of a Shipping Container (And Why the Supply Chain Is So Backed Up) The Science of Slow Aging How Nose Swabs Detect New Covid-19 Strains Samsung S22 Ultra Explained in 3 Minutes The Science Behind Elon Musk’s Neuralink Brain Chip Every Prototype to Make a Humanoid Robot Chemist Breaks Down How At-Home Covid Tests Work A Timeline of Russian Cyberattacks on Ukraine VFX Artist Breaks Down Oscar-Nominated CGI Why Smartphone Night Photos Are So Good Now We Invented the Perfect WIRED Autocomplete Glue How Everything Everywhere All at Once's Visual Effects Were Made How Dogs Coevolved with Humans How an Architect Redesigns NYC Streets Viking Expert Breaks Down The Northman Weapons J. Kenji López-Alt Breaks Down the Science of Stir-Fry How A.I. Is Changing Hollywood How Trash Goes From Garbage Cans to Landfills Veterinarian Explains How to Prevent Pet Separation Anxiety The Science Behind Genetically Modified Mosquitoes How Scientists & Filmmakers Brought Prehistoric Planet's Dinosaurs to Life All the Ways Google Gets Street View Images How Public Cameras Recognize and Track You How the Nuro Robotic Delivery Car Was Built Biologist Explains the Unexpected Origins of Feathers in Fashion Surgeons Break Down Separating Conjoined Twins Former Air Force Pilot Breaks Down UFO Footage Bug Expert Explains Why Cicadas Are So Loud The Best of CES 2021 Health Expert Explains What You Need to Know About Quarantines Scientist Explains How People Might Hibernate Like Bears Could a Chernobyl Level Nuclear Disaster Happen in the US? Neuroscientist Explains ASMR's Effects on the Brain & The Body Why Top Scientists Are Pretending an Asteroid is Headed for Earth Epidemiologist Answers Common Monkeypox Questions Bill Nye Breaks Down Webb Telescope Space Images How This Humanoid Robot Diver Was Designed Every Trick a Pro GeoGuessr Player Uses to Win How NASA Biologists Plan to Grow Plants on the Moon How FIFA Graphics & Gameplay Are Evolving (1993 - 2023) How a Vet Performs Dangerous Surgeries on Wild Animals This Heart is Not Human How Entomologists Use Insects to Solve Crimes Former NASA Astronaut Breaks Down a Rocket Launch Chess Pro Explains How to Spot Cheaters Why Billionaires Are Actually Ruining the Economy How to Keep Your New Year’s Resolutions for More Than a Week The Biology Behind The Last of Us English Teacher Grades Homework By ChatGPT All the Ways a Cold Plunge Affects the Body Spy Historian Debunks Chinese Spy Balloon Theories A.I. Tries 20 Jobs | WIRED Mathematician Breaks Down the Best Ways to Win the Lottery Why Music Festivals Sound Better Than Ever Pro Interpreters vs. AI Challenge: Who Translates Faster and Better? Why The Average Human Couldn't Drive An F1 Car Atomic Expert Explains "Oppenheimer" Bomb Scenes Every 'Useless' Body Part Explained From Head to Toe How Pilots and Scientists Are Thinking About the Future of Air Travel How To Max Out At Every Fantasy Football Position (Ft. Matthew Berry) All The Ways Mt. Everest Can Kill You How Fat Bears Bulk Up To Hibernate (And Why We Love To See It) Why Vintage Tech Is So Valuable To Collectors 8 Photos That Tell The History of Humans In Space How Every Organ in Your Body Ages From Head to Toe Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
