Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Atomic Expert Explains "Oppenheimer" Bomb Scenes About Released on 07/17/2023 [bomb exploding] I'm a historian of nuclear weapons.
[bomb exploding] And today I'm here to talk about the science behind Oppenheimer.
[upbeat music] So that's a scene of them assembling the gadget.
This is clearly based on some pictures that have come out, and they're not a ton of pictures showing this level of assembly that have been declassified and released.
All the pictures we have of this are black and white.
The people who actually saw it described it as being a sort of peach colored, a sort of tan colored.
Each of those wedges are several layers of high explosive.
So there are sort of variants of TNT called explosive lenses, and they are putting them around the plutonium sphere that powers the whole thing.
This is about the size of a grapefruit So plutonium's solid metal.
Imagine you had a piece of steel and I said, push it on all sides to make it smaller.
You need to shrink it by half its size exactly symmetrically.
Each of these are the detonators.
When they all go off, they're gonna start a shockwave through this device.
It's gonna start going in, in, in.
Inside that little sphere of plutonium is an even tinier sphere of polonium and beryllium.
This thing, if you compress it, will shoot out some neutrons that's meant to just start the reaction.
You push the whole thing together and make an atomic bomb explode.
This is called implosion.
One of the things we see in the movie is the final assembly of the gadget.
This is based on actual footage that was taken at the time.
Even the lighting looks like in the historic footage that we have.
This is a hundred foot tower.
They have brought the explosive sphere out to the test site by the tower and they put a big tent around it.
You need this thing to be as controlled as possible.
If you got a pebble in there, it could deform the shock wave by just enough to make the whole thing either not work or not work very well.
So they want this to be a very pristine sort of environment, which is hard to do when you're in the middle of the desert.
They're putting in in this scene what's called the tamper plug.
The goal is to have this sit right around the plutonium core in the middle of the bomb.
This is a delicate operation.
This tamper plug arguably is worth $400 million in 1945 money.
They don't wanna mess this up, because once you put the plutonium in there, every little step of getting it closer to being a bomb makes it a little bit more dangerous to be around and radioactively, you know, problematic.
This core is like on the edge of being explosive.
It's also radioactive, it's also hot.
Plutonium in that quantity is so radioactive that it's about 80 degrees Fahrenheit.
They're dropping it through the center of the bomb.
They've made a sort of trap door basically into the bomb so that the lens on top can come out.
You can drop this thing in.
In real life, they went to put it in and it didn't fit.
Oh my God, have we totally messed this up? Wait a minute, wait a minute.
It had to be the right temperature for it to fit.
The outer part was cooler than the inner part was, and so they had to wait for them to reach the same temperature, and then it just slid into place.
So there had to be one person left in the tower to set it all up at the very end, stay with the bomb, do the final connections, and then head back.
And this was, of course, a very stressful job.
They had previous mock-ups that were set off by lightning in the distance, so they were in a very precarious state here.
There's a scene before the actual Trinity test where General Groves is asking Oppenheimer about the possibility of this test destroying the world.
[Groves] There's a chance that when we push that button, we destroy the world? One of the real concerns was this problem of what they called atmospheric ignition.
What if the nitrogen and oxygen in the atmosphere fuse together and release energy? Could they release enough energy that that would trigger more nuclear fusion that then goes over the entire globe and leaves at a burnt horrible cinder? Turns out that kind of equation is really hard to do, but let's imagine that it's like 100 times easier than we think it is.
We can sort of make very conservative extrapolations and we find it's probably not gonna happen.
Chances are near zero.
Near zero.
What do you want from theory alone? Oppenheimer is giving the correct scientist's answer.
They basically concluded it would be less than one in 3 million, something like that.
In the 1970s, weapon scientists redid those calculations.
Could you set the earth on fire if you wanted to? Yes, but you need bombs that would be hundreds of thousands of times more explosive than any bombs we ever made.
And you'd need to have a much higher proportion of the ocean be made out of a rare isotope called deuterium, a different type of hydrogen.
If you had this, you could indeed turn the earth into a sun.
The detonation took place very late at night.
They wanted to see exactly how bright it was, and it's gonna be harder to see that in the daytime when you're competing with the actual sun.
They actually had recommended that the bombs be dropped on Japan at night because they would be more psychologically stunning.
But for logistical reasons, they were dropped in the morning on both of the cities.
So those numbers you see are nixie tubes.
Those are a pre-digital way to display numbers.
It's a very nice period-appropriate touch.
So at this point, the gadget, as they called it, is fully assembled.
You can tell that because the wires are sticking out the top on the front, that's called the X Unit, that's the firing unit, it's assembled.
To set off this kind of bomb, you have to send a high voltage electrical signal to 32 separate places at exactly the same time.
Nanosecond tolerances on the timing to have it work right.
And then they have a wire going all the way back to base camp.
And if you hit the big button on the wire.
Detonator charged.
[Alex] You're telling the bomb, go ahead and explode, and it will.
[nuke exploding] In the movie Oppenheimer, the Trinity test is one of the climax moments.
It's ridiculously bright, much, much brighter than the actual sun.
What Oppenheimer's putting on here are welding goggles, and these are so dark that you really can't see anything in them except something that is as bright as the sun.
There were a few people at the Trinity Test who'd looked at the explosion without anything over their eyes.
One of them, by accident, he dropped his goggles, and one of them on purpose.
They both suffered from what was called flash blindness, temporary blindness.
You'll see a big dark spot over your vision for quite some time.
There were people who were relatively close, thousands of yards.
Oppenheimer in the sort of control bunker, much closer than a lot of the outlying ones.
Most of the people that were instructed to lay down away from the blast so that they don't turn around and either get knocked over or get a face full of dust.
So the Trinity test was heavily, heavily documented both by pressure gauges and cameras with telephoto lenses from a very far distance, but some of them were closer in bunkers.
Anytime you see a closeup and it's sort of like a wall of fire, there are shots from the actual Trinity test that looked pretty similar to that.
Interestingly, on some of the very earliest shots where they were trying to get the very first moments of the fireball, it was hot enough that it burned holes in the film.
This particular shot is interesting because this is what they call in the business a rope trick.
And they only show up when you can take pictures that are 1,000 frames per second or something like this.
You have a tower with a bomb on it and it's got wires stabilizing the tower, and there's a little tendril of the fireball that's going faster than the rest because it's blowing up the wire as it goes down there.
No one at Trinity could have actually seen this.
What you're seeing here is the complex interaction that happens when the blast wave hits the ground, goes straight down, bounces back up, and then intersects with that blast wave coming out.
There's a really big difference in how the blast wave behaves from a bomb that's right on the ground from one that's a little bit in the air.
They want this, what's called the mach stem, to have a wide area of destruction.
That's how you maximize the blast pressure, detonating very high above the ground.
They're gonna use that data to set the altitude of the atomic bomb over Japan.
When they went into the Trinity test, their sort of best guess was it would maybe be 4,000 tons of TNT.
It ended up being more powerful than they thought by a factor of like 5, 20,000 tons of TNT equivalent.
This is enough to destroy a sort of medium-sized city.
If you're a much bigger city, like say New York City, it's enough to destroy like Midtown.
So this is one of the reasons why Trinity is so important.
It's not just it works.
They find out it works really well.
So the Manhattan Project is this gigantic endeavor.
It's this massive industrial project and employs like 500,000 people.
It's like 1% of the civilian labor force, and it cost like $2 billion in their money, which is like 1% of the whole cost of World War II.
They use 1% of all the electricity in the country to make these weapons.
They're building an industry in like two and a half years, and the output of that industry is a very tiny amount of material.
A 6 kilogram plutonium core, 13.5 pounds, that's the one they first test at Trinity.
About 64 kilograms, so about 120 something pounds of highly enriched uranium, uranium 235, that's for the bomb that's gonna be dropped on Hiroshima.
And then they have one more plutonium core.
That's the one they're gonna end up dropping on Nagasaki.
So all of that effort is to make these three cores for the bombs.
And they had one more bomb in the pipeline.
They ended up never sending it, the war ended.
Many of these people talked about this as the best years of their life in some ways.
They had a lot of fun, and some of them felt quite guilty about that after Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
Oppenheimer's a really complicated character.
What he said he regretted was that after World War II, they continued to make more weapons and they continued to make bigger weapons and they continued to make the kind of world that he thought would ultimately put civilization itself in danger.
In the years to come, it will be possible to kill 40 million American people by the use of atomic bombs in a single night.
[Alex] He knew in 1945 that there were ideas on the table for bombs that would be thousands of times more powerful, and that the nations of the world could all get them if they wanted them, and that a war with bombs of that big could be fatal for the entire species.
And so that's the sort of paradox of Oppenheimer, this person who wants peace, but he does it through war.
How the Disco Clam Uses Light to Fight Super-Strong Predators Architect Explains How Homes Could be 3D Printed on Mars and Earth Scientist Explains How Rare Genetics Allow Some to Sleep Only 4 Hours a Night Scientist Explains Unsinkable Metal That Could Prevent Disasters at Sea Is Invisibility Possible? An Inventor and a Physicist Explain Scientist Explains Why Her Lab Taught Rats to Drive Tiny Cars Mycologist Explains How a Slime Mold Can Solve Mazes How the Two-Hour Marathon Limit Was Broken Research Suggests Cats Like Their Owners as Much as Dogs Researcher Explains Deepfake Videos Scientist Explains How to Study the Metabolism of Ultra High Flying Geese Hurricane Hunter Explains How They Track and Predict Hurricanes Scientist Explains Viral Fish Cannon Video A Biohacker Explains Why He Turned His Leg Into a Hotspot Scientist Explains What Water Pooling in Kilauea's Volcanic Crater Means Bill Nye Explains the Science Behind Solar Sailing Vision Scientist Explains Why These Praying Mantises Are Wearing 3D Glasses Why Some Cities Are Banning Facial Recognition Technology Scientist's Map Explains Climate Change Scientist Explains How Moon Mining Would Work Scientist Explains How She Captured Rare Footage of a Giant Squid Doctor Explains How Sunscreen Affects Your Body Stranger Things is Getting a New Mall! But Today Malls Are Dying. What Happened? The Limits of Human Endurance Might Be Our Guts Meet the First College Students to Launch a Rocket Into Space Scientist Explains Why Dogs Can Smell Better Than Robots A Harvard Professor Explains What the Avengers Can Teach Us About Philosophy NASA Twin Study: How Space Changes Our Bodies What the Black Hole Picture Means for Researchers Scientist Explains How to Levitate Objects With Sound Why Scientists and Artists Want The Blackest Substances on Earth Biologist Explains How Drones Catching Whale "Snot" Helps Research Researcher Explains Why Humans Can't Spot Real-Life Deepfake Masks Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About The Coronavirus VFX Artist Breaks Down This Year's Best Visual Effects Nominees How Doctors on Earth Treated a Blood Clot in Space Scientist Explains Why Some Cats Eat Human Corpses Voting Expert Explains How Voting Technology Will Impact the 2020 Election Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About Pandemics ER Doctor Explains How They're Handling Covid-19 Why This Taste Map Is Wrong Q&A: What's Next for the Coronavirus Pandemic? Why Captive Tigers Can’t Be Reintroduced to the Wild How Covid-19 Immunity Compares to Other Diseases 5 Mistakes to Avoid as We Try to Stop Covid-19 How This Emergency Ventilator Could Keep Covid-19 Patients Alive Why NASA Made a Helicopter for Mars Theoretical Physicist Breaks Down the Marvel Multiverse Former NASA Astronaut Explains Jeff Bezos's Space Flight Physics Student Breaks Down Gymnastics Physics What Do Cities Look Like Under a Microscope? Inside the Largest Bitcoin Mine in The U.S.
How Caffeine Has Fueled History How Mushroom Time-Lapses Are Filmed Why You’ll Fail the Milk Crate Challenge Why Vegan Cheese Doesn't Melt How 250 Cameras Filmed Neill Blomkamp's Demonic How Meme Detectives Stop NFT Fraud How Disney Designed a Robotic Spider-Man How Online Conspiracy Groups Compare to Cults Dune Costume Designers Break Down Dune’s Stillsuits Korean Phrases You Missed in 'Squid Game' Why Scientists Are Stress Testing Tardigrades Every Prototype that Led to a Realistic Prosthetic Arm Why the Toilet Needs an Upgrade How Animals Are Evolving Because of Climate Change How Stop-Motion Movies Are Animated at Aardman Astronomer Explains How NASA Detects Asteroids Are We Living In A Simulation? Inside the Journey of a Shipping Container (And Why the Supply Chain Is So Backed Up) The Science of Slow Aging How Nose Swabs Detect New Covid-19 Strains Samsung S22 Ultra Explained in 3 Minutes The Science Behind Elon Musk’s Neuralink Brain Chip Every Prototype to Make a Humanoid Robot Chemist Breaks Down How At-Home Covid Tests Work A Timeline of Russian Cyberattacks on Ukraine VFX Artist Breaks Down Oscar-Nominated CGI Why Smartphone Night Photos Are So Good Now We Invented the Perfect WIRED Autocomplete Glue How Everything Everywhere All at Once's Visual Effects Were Made How Dogs Coevolved with Humans How an Architect Redesigns NYC Streets Viking Expert Breaks Down The Northman Weapons J. Kenji López-Alt Breaks Down the Science of Stir-Fry How A.I. Is Changing Hollywood How Trash Goes From Garbage Cans to Landfills Veterinarian Explains How to Prevent Pet Separation Anxiety The Science Behind Genetically Modified Mosquitoes How Scientists & Filmmakers Brought Prehistoric Planet's Dinosaurs to Life All the Ways Google Gets Street View Images How Public Cameras Recognize and Track You How the Nuro Robotic Delivery Car Was Built Biologist Explains the Unexpected Origins of Feathers in Fashion Surgeons Break Down Separating Conjoined Twins Former Air Force Pilot Breaks Down UFO Footage Bug Expert Explains Why Cicadas Are So Loud The Best of CES 2021 Health Expert Explains What You Need to Know About Quarantines Scientist Explains How People Might Hibernate Like Bears Could a Chernobyl Level Nuclear Disaster Happen in the US? Neuroscientist Explains ASMR's Effects on the Brain & The Body Why Top Scientists Are Pretending an Asteroid is Headed for Earth Epidemiologist Answers Common Monkeypox Questions Bill Nye Breaks Down Webb Telescope Space Images How This Humanoid Robot Diver Was Designed Every Trick a Pro GeoGuessr Player Uses to Win How NASA Biologists Plan to Grow Plants on the Moon How FIFA Graphics & Gameplay Are Evolving (1993 - 2023) How a Vet Performs Dangerous Surgeries on Wild Animals This Heart is Not Human How Entomologists Use Insects to Solve Crimes Former NASA Astronaut Breaks Down a Rocket Launch Chess Pro Explains How to Spot Cheaters Why Billionaires Are Actually Ruining the Economy How to Keep Your New Year’s Resolutions for More Than a Week The Biology Behind The Last of Us English Teacher Grades Homework By ChatGPT All the Ways a Cold Plunge Affects the Body Spy Historian Debunks Chinese Spy Balloon Theories A.I. Tries 20 Jobs | WIRED Mathematician Breaks Down the Best Ways to Win the Lottery Why Music Festivals Sound Better Than Ever Pro Interpreters vs. AI Challenge: Who Translates Faster and Better? Why The Average Human Couldn't Drive An F1 Car Atomic Expert Explains "Oppenheimer" Bomb Scenes Every 'Useless' Body Part Explained From Head to Toe How Pilots and Scientists Are Thinking About the Future of Air Travel How To Max Out At Every Fantasy Football Position (Ft. Matthew Berry) All The Ways Mt. Everest Can Kill You How Fat Bears Bulk Up To Hibernate (And Why We Love To See It) Why Vintage Tech Is So Valuable To Collectors 8 Photos That Tell The History of Humans In Space How Every Organ in Your Body Ages From Head to Toe Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
