Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons 8 Photos That Tell The History of Humans In Space About Released on 10/23/2023 I'm British Astronaut Tim Peake, and I'm gonna be talking about some of the most iconic moments in the history of human space flight for Wired.
[Speaker] Behind each of these photos, there's a different story about humans in space.
Missions being just seconds away from failure.
[Announcer] We're breathing again, thanks a lot.
[Speaker] Secret codes. [electronic beeping] And taking crazy risks. Well, just because we can.
[electronic beeping] I guess we should start at the beginning.
The first human in space, Yuri Gagarin, strapped into his Vostok One capsule there.
[speaking foreign language] Inside that spacecraft, there is a code that is secret even to Yuri himself.
[Speaker] Yuri didn't have any control over the spacecraft at all.
It was fully automated by a computer system and mission control.
Code 1-2-5 would allow manual controls, but only in case of an emergency.
There was so much fear in the Soviet Union about defection that the code was hidden from the cosmonauts themselves and they were only gonna be told about it in the event of an emergency.
But actually several people did tell Yuri the code secretly before he flew, so he knew what it would be.
What you may not realize is that on the front of his helmet there, he's got the letters CCCP to represent the Soviet Union.
It was painted on at the very last moment.
The Soviets realized this iconic moment, there was nothing to identify him as a Soviet cosmonaut.
So one of the engineers grabbed his helmet and painted those letters on.
That paint is still wet right there in his capsule.
[speaking foreign language] The launch didn't actually go completely according to plan.
Yuri went into a higher orbit than was expected.
They didn't bother telling him about it.
There really wasn't much he could do about it anyway.
And he didn't land in his spacecraft either.
The Vostok ejected the cosmonauts out and they actually parachuted back down to Earth.
[Speaker] And upon landing, Yuri was greeted by a very shocked farmer, who he asked to call Moscow.
[electronic beeping] Valentina Tereshkova, first female to fly into space.
Actually, this was part of the Space Race.
The Soviets had got wind of a woman in space program over in the United States, trying to see if any of the physiological differences between women and men would create an advantage for flying female astronauts into space.
No surprise, they didn't just pass it.
They actually performed in about the top two percent of their male counterparts.
When the Soviets got wind of this program, they thought, Well, we're not gonna get picked at the post.
And so they went for their own selection process and subsequently flew Valentina Tereshkova as the first female in space.
[Speaker] And the women in space program, it was just a study.
In fact, it was over 20 years until the first American woman flew to space.
[electronic beeping] We've got Ed White here, the first American to do a spacewalk.
The United States had wanted to be the first nation, but 10 weeks earlier, Alexei Leonov had gone outside of his spacecraft and done the first ever spacewalk.
[Speaker] And it wasn't without risk.
Leonov's spacesuit expanded so much in the vacuum of space, he had to depressurize his own suit to get back in.
The United States realized that their first spacewalk better be something a little bit more impressive than just opening the hatch and poking your head out.
[James] It looks beautiful.
[Ed] I feel like a million dollars.
Also, you may not know that on his spacewalk, he lost a glove with the hatch open to the capsule.
[Ed] Looks like a thermal glove, Jim.
[James] It is, Ed. Ah! It's happened several times since.
[Speaker] Like when this $100,000 toolbox floated away from this NASA astronaut in 2008.
[Heide] Oh, great! [Speaker] The tool bag circled Earth over eight months before burning into a fireball and destroying itself over the Pacific Ocean.
The other thing both of them realized is that there are no handrails at all on the outside of these capsules.
They're floating around on umbilicals here, out in space.
And at one point, Ed was wiping himself over the windshield of the capsule and his crew mate inside was kind of saying, Hey, get yourself off my spacecraft.
[electronic beeping] Possibly one of the most iconic photographs in the history of human space flight.
If you zoom in, then you'll actually see Neil taking that photograph reflected in the gold visor of Buzz Aldrin.
It nearly didn't happen, of course.
Neil nearly ran outta fuel coming down to the surface.
[Buzz] Five percent.
The fuel got lower than it had ever become in any of the simulations, in any of the training scenarios.
[Announcer] 30 seconds.
Bringing the lander module down to the surface, it was kicking up all this lunar dust.
[Buzz] Picking up some dust.
[Tim] And he wasn't able to even see his landing site.
[Buzz] Forward drifting to the right a little.
Was the lunar landing module just gonna sink several feet into lunar dust? Were the astronauts gonna sink up into their knees and not be able to actually walk anywhere at all? Neil had the cool presence of mind to just continue on, not worry about the fuel.
So when the landing module touched down, the only real way they realized they're on the surface is when the contact light came on.
[Buzz] Contact light.
[Tim] And the engines were cut.
[Buzz] Okay, engine stop.
Tranquility base here, the eagle has landed.
[Announcer] You got a bunch of guys about to turn blue, we're breathing again, thanks a lot.
And you think, wow, to have had such an incredible technical achievement, but actually still to have had so many unknowns.
At some point, you have to do it. You have to be the first.
And these were the first people to have experienced that.
[electronic beeping] This photograph actually became known just as The Poster.
It adorns many bedroom walls of teenaged kids and younger, who would just stick it up and look at that iconic image of a human floating out there, untethered.
The feeling of exposure and vulnerability in that suit.
The risk was palpable.
Imagine if one of those thrusters had just got stuck in the on position as he was maneuvering around.
That would be it. Game over.
Bruce would be off, lost forever into the cosmos.
And you could arguably say, Well, what was the point of that? What was the higher purpose? Perhaps there wasn't one.
This was just like the jet ski of the spacewalking world.
Just because we can do it, let's go out there and do it and have fun.
Another thing you may not realize in this photograph is he was shivering and freezing cold.
So although the poster looks like the most serene, the most tranquil event ever, for Bruce at the time, it was pretty hard work.
[electronic beeping] Peggy Whitson, June the fifth, 2002.
This spacewalk really just shows how far we've come, now being able to perform eight-hour, very complex missions outside the space station.
Space went from being a very competitive race between two nations, to a very collaborative period in low Earth orbit.
And so having been working apart during the Space Race, let's build a space station together, called the International Space Station, as we know it today.
[electronic beeping] This next photograph is Frank Rubio.
One of the best things about space is playing with your food and water, frankly.
And when you get a bubble of water in front of you, it just makes you realize how different the weightless environment is.
We've gone beyond the days of just building a space station that we're spending huge amounts of time now in space.
We're using it as a microgravity laboratory and science that's becoming more and more valuable by the day as we realize what you can do in weightlessness.
[electronic beeping] So, fast forward to today.
And looking to the future with Artemis Two not far away now, the first crew to return to lunar orbit for over 50 years, is a little bit of a space race starting again though, because Russia isn't part of that partnership, neither is China.
Other nations, such as India, having a very dynamic space program landing a rover on the south pole of the moon.
In this new era of space exploration as we move outside of low Earth orbit once more, it's gonna be a very exciting five to 10 years ahead.
[bright music] How the Disco Clam Uses Light to Fight Super-Strong Predators Architect Explains How Homes Could be 3D Printed on Mars and Earth Scientist Explains How Rare Genetics Allow Some to Sleep Only 4 Hours a Night Scientist Explains Unsinkable Metal That Could Prevent Disasters at Sea Is Invisibility Possible? An Inventor and a Physicist Explain Scientist Explains Why Her Lab Taught Rats to Drive Tiny Cars Mycologist Explains How a Slime Mold Can Solve Mazes How the Two-Hour Marathon Limit Was Broken Research Suggests Cats Like Their Owners as Much as Dogs Researcher Explains Deepfake Videos Scientist Explains How to Study the Metabolism of Ultra High Flying Geese Hurricane Hunter Explains How They Track and Predict Hurricanes Scientist Explains Viral Fish Cannon Video A Biohacker Explains Why He Turned His Leg Into a Hotspot Scientist Explains What Water Pooling in Kilauea's Volcanic Crater Means Bill Nye Explains the Science Behind Solar Sailing Vision Scientist Explains Why These Praying Mantises Are Wearing 3D Glasses Why Some Cities Are Banning Facial Recognition Technology Scientist's Map Explains Climate Change Scientist Explains How Moon Mining Would Work Scientist Explains How She Captured Rare Footage of a Giant Squid Doctor Explains How Sunscreen Affects Your Body Stranger Things is Getting a New Mall! But Today Malls Are Dying. What Happened? The Limits of Human Endurance Might Be Our Guts Meet the First College Students to Launch a Rocket Into Space Scientist Explains Why Dogs Can Smell Better Than Robots A Harvard Professor Explains What the Avengers Can Teach Us About Philosophy NASA Twin Study: How Space Changes Our Bodies What the Black Hole Picture Means for Researchers Scientist Explains How to Levitate Objects With Sound Why Scientists and Artists Want The Blackest Substances on Earth Biologist Explains How Drones Catching Whale "Snot" Helps Research Researcher Explains Why Humans Can't Spot Real-Life Deepfake Masks Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About The Coronavirus VFX Artist Breaks Down This Year's Best Visual Effects Nominees How Doctors on Earth Treated a Blood Clot in Space Scientist Explains Why Some Cats Eat Human Corpses Voting Expert Explains How Voting Technology Will Impact the 2020 Election Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About Pandemics ER Doctor Explains How They're Handling Covid-19 Why This Taste Map Is Wrong Q&A: What's Next for the Coronavirus Pandemic? Why Captive Tigers Can’t Be Reintroduced to the Wild How Covid-19 Immunity Compares to Other Diseases 5 Mistakes to Avoid as We Try to Stop Covid-19 How This Emergency Ventilator Could Keep Covid-19 Patients Alive Why NASA Made a Helicopter for Mars Theoretical Physicist Breaks Down the Marvel Multiverse Former NASA Astronaut Explains Jeff Bezos's Space Flight Physics Student Breaks Down Gymnastics Physics What Do Cities Look Like Under a Microscope? Inside the Largest Bitcoin Mine in The U.S.
How Caffeine Has Fueled History How Mushroom Time-Lapses Are Filmed Why You’ll Fail the Milk Crate Challenge Why Vegan Cheese Doesn't Melt How 250 Cameras Filmed Neill Blomkamp's Demonic How Meme Detectives Stop NFT Fraud How Disney Designed a Robotic Spider-Man How Online Conspiracy Groups Compare to Cults Dune Costume Designers Break Down Dune’s Stillsuits Korean Phrases You Missed in 'Squid Game' Why Scientists Are Stress Testing Tardigrades Every Prototype that Led to a Realistic Prosthetic Arm Why the Toilet Needs an Upgrade How Animals Are Evolving Because of Climate Change How Stop-Motion Movies Are Animated at Aardman Astronomer Explains How NASA Detects Asteroids Are We Living In A Simulation? Inside the Journey of a Shipping Container (And Why the Supply Chain Is So Backed Up) The Science of Slow Aging How Nose Swabs Detect New Covid-19 Strains Samsung S22 Ultra Explained in 3 Minutes The Science Behind Elon Musk’s Neuralink Brain Chip Every Prototype to Make a Humanoid Robot Chemist Breaks Down How At-Home Covid Tests Work A Timeline of Russian Cyberattacks on Ukraine VFX Artist Breaks Down Oscar-Nominated CGI Why Smartphone Night Photos Are So Good Now We Invented the Perfect WIRED Autocomplete Glue How Everything Everywhere All at Once's Visual Effects Were Made How Dogs Coevolved with Humans How an Architect Redesigns NYC Streets Viking Expert Breaks Down The Northman Weapons J. Kenji López-Alt Breaks Down the Science of Stir-Fry How A.I. Is Changing Hollywood How Trash Goes From Garbage Cans to Landfills Veterinarian Explains How to Prevent Pet Separation Anxiety The Science Behind Genetically Modified Mosquitoes How Scientists & Filmmakers Brought Prehistoric Planet's Dinosaurs to Life All the Ways Google Gets Street View Images How Public Cameras Recognize and Track You How the Nuro Robotic Delivery Car Was Built Biologist Explains the Unexpected Origins of Feathers in Fashion Surgeons Break Down Separating Conjoined Twins Former Air Force Pilot Breaks Down UFO Footage Bug Expert Explains Why Cicadas Are So Loud The Best of CES 2021 Health Expert Explains What You Need to Know About Quarantines Scientist Explains How People Might Hibernate Like Bears Could a Chernobyl Level Nuclear Disaster Happen in the US? Neuroscientist Explains ASMR's Effects on the Brain & The Body Why Top Scientists Are Pretending an Asteroid is Headed for Earth Epidemiologist Answers Common Monkeypox Questions Bill Nye Breaks Down Webb Telescope Space Images How This Humanoid Robot Diver Was Designed Every Trick a Pro GeoGuessr Player Uses to Win How NASA Biologists Plan to Grow Plants on the Moon How FIFA Graphics & Gameplay Are Evolving (1993 - 2023) How a Vet Performs Dangerous Surgeries on Wild Animals This Heart is Not Human How Entomologists Use Insects to Solve Crimes Former NASA Astronaut Breaks Down a Rocket Launch Chess Pro Explains How to Spot Cheaters Why Billionaires Are Actually Ruining the Economy How to Keep Your New Year’s Resolutions for More Than a Week The Biology Behind The Last of Us English Teacher Grades Homework By ChatGPT All the Ways a Cold Plunge Affects the Body Spy Historian Debunks Chinese Spy Balloon Theories A.I. Tries 20 Jobs | WIRED Mathematician Breaks Down the Best Ways to Win the Lottery Why Music Festivals Sound Better Than Ever Pro Interpreters vs. AI Challenge: Who Translates Faster and Better? Why The Average Human Couldn't Drive An F1 Car Atomic Expert Explains "Oppenheimer" Bomb Scenes Every 'Useless' Body Part Explained From Head to Toe How Pilots and Scientists Are Thinking About the Future of Air Travel How To Max Out At Every Fantasy Football Position (Ft. Matthew Berry) All The Ways Mt. Everest Can Kill You How Fat Bears Bulk Up To Hibernate (And Why We Love To See It) Why Vintage Tech Is So Valuable To Collectors 8 Photos That Tell The History of Humans In Space How Every Organ in Your Body Ages From Head to Toe Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
