Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 Director Answers Video Game Questions From Twitter About Released on 10/24/2023 Hi everyone, I'm Brian Intihar, senior creative director at Insomniac's Games and at Marvel Spider-Man 2 and I'm here to answer your questions on the internet.
This is video game support.
[upbeat music] First question, Ben Edapal asks, How did you guys come up with the web shooting sound? First off, we hire a really awesome audio team.
They actually told me that what they do is they have silly string, plastic wrap, shrink wrap and they even make those thlip sounds with their voices and it's all integrated into making our awesome web sounds.
As a creative director, I overall see everything on the project, but I do not offer my own sound effects because nobody wants that.
@thegamerPA asks, Honest question, do game directors focus on the overall creative vision of a game or do they have some type of programming/coding skills.
So you actually don't need to have programmer/coding skills.
There's a lot of different ways to become a creative director or a game director.
I actually started out as a journalist writing about video games and eventually I said, Hey, I'd love to go work at a studio, And I actually started working at Insomniac roughly 15 years ago and I started out on the community team, answering emails, talking to our fans.
A couple years later, became a producer and then one day back in 2014 walked into the office of Ted Price, our president, CEO.
He asked me what do I think about working on the Marvel game? Yes, please.
And I said, I don't wanna be the producer.
I wanna be the creative director.
If you have a passion, willing to work hard and you work well with others, you can do anything you want.
@Ben_N64 asks, The game, 'Spider-Man 2' Venom is the best Venom design.
Change my mind.
Ben, I'm not gonna change your mind.
I completely agree with you.
So we want to take all of the elements that players and fans love about Venom, whether it's his size, the symbol, his teeth, his mouth, his eyes, the transformation, the power.
So we want to kind of be respectful of the the DNA of the character, but also not be afraid to mix things up and take that into all into account.
Get 19 inches of Venom, all 19.
This is actually the part of the collector's edition and that features both of our Spider-Men fighting their toughest challenge yet in the form of Venom, pretty badass.
Matthew Guz asks, What's your game design philosophy in tweet form? You wanna deliver the fantasy while making a world and characters that you absolutely love and wanna spend time.
SilentWrath87 asks, How do you decide which suits go in the game, is it personal preference or do you think about abilities and which suits would match up well with them and are you free to pick or do Marvel have a say? Wow, where do I begin? We know there are suits that everybody wants.
We talk to Marvel, we talk to our Sony producers, we get artists to create brand new suits that had never been made before.
Suits are unlocked via basically hitting a certain hero level and then having the right resources to craft it.
So that's how you do and then because we have two heroes, we have over 65 suits and now we wanted to go even bigger with that so now the majority suits have what we call suit style.
So there's usually four different suit styles you can unlock for that suit, which means we have over 200 different suits in the game, which is crazy.
But at the same time we hope we got everything everybody wanted.
It's like Christmas and it's the all the presents are under the the tree and you're like, I hope I got them everything they wanted.
Clay864 asks, But is there going to be a Spider-Man 5 console like we got with the PS4 from the first game? Damn straight there's gonna be.
Got this sweet controller.
Symbiote takeover.
But the real cool stuff is this sweet, sweet, sweet console.
I don't even have one yet as we sit here.
This idea of the Symbiote and takeover, not only thematically works for the console, but it ties very heavily to what we're doing in the game.
So it's awesome design, super happy that PlayStation wanted to do it.
@DEspumpkinz, with a z, asks, Is New York City in 'Spider-Man 2' to build the scale? It is not.
Our idea is we want to create a New York City that kind of you have in your head, whether you've been there or seen in the movies.
There's tons of recognizable elements, whether it's certain neighborhoods, certain buildings and then, of course, this is Marvel's New York.
So we want to have things like a Avengers Tower or the Wakandan Embassy and what's been really awesome on Spider-Man 2 is that we've nearly doubled the size of the city with the addition of Brooklyn and Queens so now you see things like Coney Island, you can see where Miles goes to school at Brooklyn Visions Academy and even Pete now living at Aunt May's old house.
And now with things like the web wings, you can cross things like the East River and our bridges much easier than you couldn't pass because in the last games you couldn't even do that.
@TheAnimeG_ asks, The web swinging with certain aspects added are so refreshing, I'm kind of interested to see how they can make 'Spider-Man 2' as cool as Miles Morales' web swinging.
How we make exploring the world and getting around the world better, the web wings, we knew really early on, we actually prototyped it really early Spider-Man 1, but we were like, Ah, we don't know.
It's a cool idea, but we just don't really have the time for it right now.
So we knew by the time Spider-Man 2 was rolling around it was something we really wanted to do.
So that's a big element.
So many times playing Spider-Man 1, you'll be above the the buildings, you're like, Well I wanna keep going.
And now you can just press triangle and boom, pop those web wings and keep gliding.
Just keeping that momentum when you don't have a web line available.
But I think we've added other things, like being able to turn a corner really, really fast.
What people have asked for a long time is yes you can do the loop de loop now, in our game you can unlock that skill.
So adding all new animations, adding more swing animations, we know, we've heard you, you guys like swing animations.
We get it.
We've added more.
@Furk729 asks, Do you think that 'Spider-Man 2' is story wise, combat wise, better than the 2018 'Spider-Man' game? God, I hope so 'cause we've been working really hard to deliver that.
It's not just a story of Peter, it's not just a story of Miles, it's a story of both Peter and Miles and they're not only their journey together, but individually.
So one mission may just be as Pete, one mission may just be as Miles, some missions actually be playing as both of them or switching back and forth so we kind of control it.
While in the open world, we give you a lot more choice and then basically what we've done is we've created content that specific for Peter, specific for Miles and in the combat front, we've just been adding a ton of stuff whether it's new powers for Miles and the evolved Venom, to obviously our Symbiote abilities with Pete.
Hell yeah, this game is better than 'Spider-Man 1.' 09missyG asks, How do you write a compelling story that works for an open world game where the player could experience it out of order or even circumvent parts entirely.
Part of an open world thing that people love is having that freedom, right? When you're making something like Spider-Man, we understand, when it comes to Marvel, everything starts with our story.
What are they going through, not only in the mask but out of the masks? It's a balancing act.
We have an amazing team of writers that work on this for years.
We start really, really broad.
Gimme the paragraph of what the story's about and then we go into a story treatment.
The story treatment can go half a page, to one page, to five pages, to 20 pages.
Here's what act one, act two, act three is about and then we go into, okay, within act one there's probably five, six, seven missions and we start to build out a macro which shows kind of how it's gonna flow together and then from there, when we have kind of buy-in from the team and everybody on what the story treatment is, we start to write scripts.
@lazyjusten asks, How does Insomnia manage to put out such high quality games? Like every two years? Like what is their secret? There is no perfect answer because no development is perfect.
It's not gonna go perfect.
But what we always try to do is kind of self-evaluate ourselves.
What can we learn from our previous production that we can apply to the next game? Back in the day you would release a game and you'd kind of be done with it.
Now, even for a single player game, you're looking at player feedback.
Maybe there's something that is tripping people up that we can update the game really quickly.
Obviously, with a multiplayer game, they're continually updating, they're rebalancing, they're putting out new content.
The industry has evolved, development is still going even when it's out.
@ZachRuden asks, How exactly does one go about designing a game to optimize a serious horsepower of a PS5? So first off, we're very fortunate to have Mark Cerny, the architect of the PlayStation 5, be one of our producers.
I think it's this combination of learning about what the console can do, what can the console do that maybe we couldn't do before? What could we do in previous games, now we can do better? I think when you look at Marvel Spider-Man 2 in comparison to our previous games, there are a multitude of things that we couldn't do before.
We could not swing as swing as fast as we do now.
The world wouldn't have loaded the way it needs to load as you're swinging if we didn't have that.
Our hero switching that we do in the open world would never be as fast as it is.
I think our set pieces, we'd have to do a lot more smoke and mirrors than we actually are doing.
Taking our favorite comic panels, our favorite movie moments and going, Hey, we're gonna do that in a video game and put you in control.
night_persian asks, How does Insomniac get such detailed textures? Damn their engine is amazing.
It is amazing.
Our teams work really closely with our engine team.
One of the benefits of having our own engine is that there's so much collaboration going on between our artists, our lighters, our effects team, everything to come together.
Because you can have an awesome texture, but if it doesn't have great lighting, it's not gonna look as good as you want.
@Moonlit_Games asks, What do you think has been the most significant advancement in gaming recently? I would say the amount accessibility that all developers across the world that are adding to their games.
Whether making swinging more accessible, combat, anything we can do to get more players playing our games is a huge win and it's something we're always continue to do from here on out.
@PostMesmeric asks, I often wonder how we begin developers determine what should be considered the default settings in their games.
I think it starts off with, who are you making your game for? Our goal, first off, is we wanna make it accessible and playable by as many people as possible.
So that's whether it's our, how difficult the enemies are defeat, to our traversal controls, our combat controls.
But at the same time we understand that there are also hardcore fans who want a really tough challenge so we offer difficulty modes.
But what we usually do is we're testing our game with people who come into our usability labs and check it out and sometimes they say this is way too easy, sometimes they say it's way too hard and then we kind of go back and forth and just try to find that sweet spot.
@IndieWolverine asks, Was there a single game that impacted you so much that you can confidently say it led to you having a career in the big industry? Maybe not one game, but it was one console.
It was the original Nintendo, the eight bit Nintendo.
I remember that Christmas I got my first Nintendo and playing Zelda and Metroid.
I remember when I lost the code to Metroid where I was and I cried my eyes out even realizing the game wasn't as long as I thought it was when I was a kid.
From when I was a little kid all the way to now, I still use it to kind of escape for a little bit and I know it's probably cliche to say, but I can't play believe I get paid to do this.
@vaughn_romero asks, How often do you alter game mechanics to fit the story? Or perhaps how do you use game mechanics to benefit a story? Spider-Man 2, a big element of the story is the Symbiote, they talked about it forever.
When are we having the Symbiote story? Well, guess what? It's coming, but it's not just part of our story.
He has that black suit, but it's not just a new suit.
He has all these plethora of Symbiote abilities, that we wanted to show off how different it makes Pete's fighting style.
So when we think of our Spider-Men as these acrobatic improvisers, with the Symbiote it was really important for us to show off, not only the power of this substance, but also his transformational nature.
So people love the Symbiote.
126Gaming, Just curious if there's any new variations to random crimes.
I remember an 'Ultimate Spider-Man.
Which is a great game.
Sometimes smaller villains like Shocker and Boomerang would spawn as an event.
Do you guys have anything like that in this game? We definitely have done more to spice up our random crimes with more surprises.
We also have a bunch of things in the open world that you can do where you can discover some new storylines that aren't part of the main story that are optional.
But I can promise you, if you like villains, you will be rewarded.
JMaine518 asks, Will 'Spider-Man 2' have multiple graphic and performance mode options like the remaster and Miles Morales games? It sure will.
So we'll offer fidelity mode, which runs at 30 frames a second and runs in 4K, we'll have performance mode which goes around to 60, but we reduce the resolution a little bit, and then for people who have 120 hertz TVs, we actually have an option where you can run at 40 hertz and kinda get the best of both worlds.
But, no matter what mode you're running in, we will have rate trace reflections.
So when you wanna see how awesome, you go up to a window and you want to see your Spider-Man suit, not just on the character but in the reflections of the windows, it's gonna look white shit hot awesome.
TwoFOOL asks, Why are video games important? Sometimes real life is not the greatest thing in the world and sometimes we just need to find a way to take a break from it, reset, whether we wanna be Link, be Mario, be Spider-Man.
Sometimes we need that time to ourselves to kind of escape for a little bit.
It's okay to take a break from real life 'cause sometimes, as great as real life can be, it can be stressful, it can be hard, it can be tough.
But having those moments to kind of take a break and reset has been really great and I hope that we can do that with the games that we make.
Thank you for all the questions today.
They were, in the words of Marvel, amazing.
Gordon Ramsay Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Ken Jeong Answers Medical Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter Blizzard's Jeff Kaplan Answers Overwatch Questions From Twitter Nick Offerman Answers Woodworking Questions From Twitter Bungie's Luke Smith Answers Destiny Questions From Twitter Jackie Chan & Olivia Munn Answer Martial Arts Questions From Twitter Scott Kelly Answers Astronaut Questions From Twitter LaVar Ball Answers Basketball Questions From Twitter Dillon Francis Answers DJ Questions From Twitter Tony Hawk Answers Skateboarding Questions From Twitter Jerry Rice Answers Football Questions From Twitter Garry Kasparov Answers Chess Questions From Twitter U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Athletes Answer Olympics Questions From Twitter Neuroscientist Anil Seth Answers Neuroscience Questions From Twitter Blizzard's Ben Brode Answers Hearthstone Questions From Twitter John Cena Answers Wrestling Questions From Twitter The Slow Mo Guys Answer Slow Motion Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Even More Science Questions From Twitter James Cameron Answers Sci-Fi Questions From Twitter Best of Tech Support: Bill Nye, Neil DeGrasse Tyson and More Answer Science Questions from Twitter Riot Games' Greg Street Answers League of Legends Questions from Twitter Riot Games' Greg Street Answers Even More League of Legends Questions from Twitter PlayerUnknown Answers PUBG Questions From Twitter Liza Koshy, Markiplier, Rhett & Link, and Hannah Hart Answer YouTube Creator Questions From Twitter NCT 127 Answer K-Pop Questions From Twitter Neil deGrasse Tyson Answers Science Questions From Twitter Ken Jeong Answers More Medical Questions From Twitter Bon Appétit's Brad & Claire Answer Cooking Questions From Twitter Bang Bang Answers Tattoo Questions From Twitter Ed Boon Answers Mortal Kombat 11 Questions From Twitter Nick Jonas and Kelly Clarkson Answer Singing Questions from Twitter Penn Jillette Answers Magic Questions From Twitter The Russo Brothers Answer Avengers: Endgame Questions From Twitter Alex Honnold Answers Climbing Questions From Twitter Sloane Stephens Answers Tennis Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter - Part 3 Astronaut Nicole Stott Answers Space Questions From Twitter Mark Cuban Answers Mogul Questions From Twitter Ubisoft's Alexander Karpazis Answers Rainbow Six Siege Questions From Twitter Marathon Champion Answers Running Questions From Twitter Ninja Answers Fortnite Questions From Twitter Cybersecurity Expert Answers Hacking Questions From Twitter Bon Appétit's Brad & Chris Answer Thanksgiving Questions From Twitter SuperM Answers K-Pop Questions From Twitter The Best of Tech Support: Ken Jeong, Bill Nye, Nicole Stott and More Twitter's Jack Dorsey Answers Twitter Questions From Twitter Jodie Whittaker Answers Doctor Who Questions From Twitter Astronomer Jill Tarter Answers Alien Questions From Twitter Tattoo Artist Bang Bang Answers More Tattoo Questions From Twitter Respawn Answers Apex Legends Questions From Twitter Michael Strahan Answers Super Bowl Questions From Twitter Dr. Martin Blaser Answers Coronavirus Questions From Twitter Scott Adkins Answers Martial Arts Training Questions From Twitter Psychiatrist Daniel Amen Answers Brain Questions From Twitter The Hamilton Cast Answers Hamilton Questions From Twitter Travis & Lyn-Z Pastrana Answer Stunt Questions From Twitter Mayim Bialik Answers Neuroscience Questions From Twitter Zach King Answers TikTok Questions From Twitter Riot Games Answers League of Legends Questions from Twitter Aaron Sorkin Answers Screenwriting Questions From Twitter Survivorman Les Stroud Answers Survival Questions From Twitter Joe Manganiello Answers Dungeons & Dragons Questions From Twitter "Star Wars Explained" Answers Star Wars Questions From Twitter Wizards of the Coast Answer Magic: The Gathering Questions From Twitter "Star Wars Explained" Answers More Star Wars Questions From Twitter VFX Artist Answers Movie & TV VFX Questions From Twitter CrossFit Coach Answers CrossFit Questions From Twitter Yo-Yo Ma Answers Cello Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers Cadaver Questions From Twitter Babish Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Jacob Collier Answers Music Theory Questions From Twitter The Lord of the Rings Expert Answers More Tolkien Questions From Twitter Wolfgang Puck Answers Restaurant Questions From Twitter Fast & Furious Car Expert Answers Car Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers Body Language Questions From Twitter Olympian Dominique Dawes Answers Gymnastics Questions From Twitter Allyson Felix Answers Track Questions From Twitter Dr. Michio Kaku Answers Physics Questions From Twitter Former NASA Astronaut Answers Space Questions From Twitter Surgeon Answers Surgery Questions From Twitter Beekeeper Answers Bee Questions From Twitter Michael Pollan Answers Psychedelics Questions From Twitter Ultramarathoner Answers Questions From Twitter Bug Expert Answers Insect Questions From Twitter Former Cult Member Answers Cult Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers MORE Dead Body Questions From Twitter Toxicologist Answers Poison Questions From Twitter Brewmaster Answers Beer Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers Biology Questions From Twitter James Dyson Answers Design Questions From Twitter Dermatologist Answers Skin Questions From Twitter Dwyane Wade Answers Basketball Questions From Twitter Baker Answers Baking Questions from Twitter Astrophysicist Answers Questions From Twitter Age Expert Answers Aging Questions From Twitter Fertility Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Biological Anthropologist Answers Love Questions From Twitter Mathematician Answers Math Questions From Twitter Statistician Answers Stats Questions From Twitter Sleep Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Botanist Answers Plant Questions From Twitter Ornithologist Answers Bird Questions From Twitter Alex Honnold Answers MORE Rock Climbing Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers MORE Body Language Questions From Twitter Waste Expert Answers Garbage Questions From Twitter Garbage Boss Answers Trash Questions From Twitter J. Kenji López-Alt Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Veterinarian Answers Pet Questions From Twitter Doctor Answers Gut Questions From Twitter Chemist Answers Chemistry Questions From Twitter Taste Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Paleontologist Answers Dinosaur Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers More Biology Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers Even More Biology Questions From Twitter ER Doctor Answers Injury Questions From Twitter Toxicologist Answers More Poison Questions From Twitter Energy Expert Answers Energy Questions From Twitter BBQ Pitmaster Answers BBQ Questions From Twitter Neil Gaiman Answers Mythology Questions From Twitter Sushi Chef Answers Sushi Questions From Twitter The Lord of the Rings Expert Answers Tolkien Questions From Twitter Audiologist Answers Hearing Questions From Twitter Marine Biologist Answers Shark Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter - Part 4 John McEnroe Answers Tennis Questions From Twitter Malcolm Gladwell Answers Research Questions From Twitter Financial Advisor Answers Money Questions From Twitter Stanford Computer Scientist Answers Coding Questions From Twitter Wildlife Vet Answers Wild Animal Questions From Twitter Climate Scientist Answers Earth Questions From Twitter Medical Doctor Answers Hormone Questions From Twitter James Hoffmann Answers Coffee Questions From Twitter Video Game Director Answers Questions From Twitter Robotics Professor Answers Robot Questions From Twitter Scam Fighters Answer Scam Questions From Twitter Forensics Expert Answers Crime Scene Questions From Twitter Chess Pro Answers Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers Body Language Questions From Twitter...Once Again Memory Champion Answers Questions From Twitter Neuroscientist Answers Illusion Questions From Twitter Immunologist Answers Immune System Questions From Twitter Rocket Scientists Answer Questions From Twitter How Vinyl Records Are Made (with Third Man Records) Neurosurgeon Answers Brain Surgery Questions From Twitter Therapist Answers Relationship Questions From Twitter Polyphia's Tim Henson Answers Guitar Questions From Twitter Structural Engineer Answers City Questions From Twitter Harvard Professor Answers Happiness Questions From Twitter A.I. Expert Answers A.I. Questions From Twitter Pizza Chef Answers Pizza Questions From Twitter Former CIA Chief of Disguise Answers Spy Questions From Twitter Astrophysicist Answers Space Questions From Twitter Cannabis Scientist Answers Questions From Twitter Sommelier Answers Wine Questions From Twitter Mycologist Answers Mushroom Questions From Twitter Genndy Tartakovsky Answers Animation Questions From Twitter Pro Card Counter Answers Casino Questions From Twitter Doctor Answers Lung Questions From Twitter Paul Hollywood & Prue Leith Answer Baking Questions From Twitter Geneticist Answers Genetics Questions From Twitter Sneaker Expert Jeff Staple Answers Sneaker Questions From Twitter 'The Points Guy' Brian Kelly Answers Travel Questions From Twitter Master Chef Answers Indian Food & Curry Questions From Twitter Archaeologist Answers Archaeology Questions From Twitter LegalEagle's Devin Stone Answers Law Questions From Twitter Todd McFarlane Answers Comics Questions From Twitter Reptile Expert Answers Reptile Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers Burial Questions From Twitter Eye Doctor Answers Eye Questions From Twitter Computer Scientist Answers Computer Questions From Twitter Neurologist Answers Nerve Questions From Twitter Hacker Answers Penetration Test Questions From Twitter Nutritionist Answers Nutrition Questions From Twitter Experts Predict the Future of Technology, AI & Humanity Doctor Answers Blood Questions From Twitter Sports Statistician Answers Sports Math Questions From Twitter Shark Tank's Mark Cuban Answers Business Questions From Twitter Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 Director Answers Video Game Questions From Twitter Criminologist Answers True Crime Questions From Twitter Physicist Answers Physics Questions From Twitter | Tech Support Chess Pro Answers More Questions From Twitter Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
