Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons LegalEagle's Devin Stone Answers Law Questions From Twitter About Released on 07/11/2023 I'm Devin Stone, a practicing lawyer and adjunct law professor and host of the Legal Eagle Law Channel, and I'm here to answer your questions from Twitter.
This is Law Support.
[upbeat music] From @Grainneuaill, Where is the line between hate speech and free speech? Actually, there is no line.
A lot of countries take different philosophies when it comes to hate speech, but in the United States, hate speech has the same kind of First Amendment protections as most speech.
Now, there are some quasi-exceptions to that.
When it comes to certain crimes, you can get an enhancement if it was done for a racially or hate-related reason, but for the most part, just when we're talking about free speech, hate speech is free speech, and you can love it or hate it, reasonable minds will differ on that one.
From airbagmoments, Serious question for lawyers: If I threaten my judge with death in the courtroom, isn't he/she now prejudiced against me and must be replaced? So this is a great example of the difference between prejudice and undue prejudice.
Courts are designed to prevent things that cause undue prejudice in the courtroom.
We don't want an outside influence unfairly prejudicing the judge, the jury, or anyone else.
But what happens inside the courtroom is pretty much fair game.
That might be prejudicial, but that's not unfair or undue prejudice.
So don't go around threatening the judge with death.
Whatever happens in court can and will be used against you.
From blueroadearth, Why was OJ found not guilty in criminal court but liable in civil court? This question was phrased very well, because they show the difference between liability and criminal liability or guilt in this context.
Now, the standard in a criminal case is beyond a reasonable doubt.
So if someone is found not guilty, it doesn't mean that they didn't commit a crime.
It just means that the prosecution didn't meet their burden.
Now, in the civil context, you're trying to make the victim's whole for the damages that you have caused them, and that's exactly what the estates of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ron Goldman did with OJ Simpson.
Even though the state was not successful in criminally prosecuting OJ Simpson, they were successful in filing a civil suit, where the standard is only a preponderance of the evidence.
Basically, more likely than not.
From @marzobound, When is a grand jury used over a regular jury if it's just ordinary people either way? So the jury that actually decides whether someone is guilty or not is called a petit jury.
P-E-T-I-T.
It's Latin, don't ask.
A grand jury, on the other hand, is actually a much lower bar.
A grand jury is used by prosecutors to decide whether to indict someone.
And the reason that people often say a grand jury could indict a ham sandwich is because it's completely one-sided.
It's really just a basic check to decide whether the case can go forward.
It doesn't actually decide whether someone's guilty or not be.
Bbrooks4791 asked, Why not testify if you're innocent? Why plead the 5th if you're innocent? This applies to anyone.
It does actually apply to anyone.
Just because you are invoking the Fifth Amendment, which is the protection against self-incrimination and being forced to testify against yourself, that doesn't mean that you committed any crimes.
Maybe you don't want to testify because that might open you up to unrelated crimes.
You might be innocent of the thing you're accused of but might be guilty of a whole bunch of other things, or you might be completely innocent of everything and just not want to testify.
You might be really bad on the stand, so be glad that if you're ever accused of a crime, you aren't going to be forced to testify against yourself.
You have the option not to testify.
From MurkTheMods, How do Draft Kings and Fan Duel get around anti-gambling laws? So for a long time, Fan Duel and Draft Kings were completely illegal across the entire U.S., except for fantasy-related sports betting.
Those are generally considered games of skill.
However, when it comes to general betting on a sports book, that was considered gambling and was illegal until 2018.
When the Supreme Court struck that law down, it was left up to the states.
And now, there have been a lot of states that have said, We are totally fine with people gambling in our states.
We would really like the tax revenue.
And as a result, it's now legal to use online websites like Fan Duel and Draft Kings.
From iShould12, How much of a difference is there between a guilty plea versus no contest? So if you are accused of a criminal violation, you have a couple options if you don't want to go to trial.
You could just enter a plea of guilty, but sometimes you have the option to plead no contest.
Effectively, in the criminal context, you're treated exactly the same as if you had pled guilty.
If your crime harmed someone and they then sued you after you pled guilty, well, you would be civilly liable for whatever damages you caused, almost automatically, because the standard in a criminal case is so much higher than a civil case.
But if you plead no contest, they have to prove that you are liable in the civil context.
Generally speaking, if the option is available, a smart defendant will plead no contest rather than guilty.
From RedRollins1, You know why there are so many frivolous lawsuits in America? So I think that people vastly overestimate how many frivolous lawsuits there are.
It's a lot of selection bias going on.
You're not gonna hear about a breach of contract case that involves a vendor who got 10,000 industrial widgets when he ordered 12,000 industrial widgets, and some of them were nonconforming.
You're not gonna hear about that because it's super boring, but you are gonna hear about the most ridiculous cases that are out there, the most frivolous cases, because those are the ones that are interesting and are going to make news.
From BetterTEc_h, And lo and behold, UMG sues for fake Drake and The Weeknd song generated by AI, but whom can it sue apart from the company that made the AI? Artists do often have rights to their likeness, and sometimes, even the rights to how they sound, but we are entering a brave new world where the law is going to come down in terms of what constitutes infringement or not.
It's gonna be an interesting outcome, because it's not at all obvious where that's gonna come down.
Cdashiell asks, Can you actually avoid being sued by simply avoiding being served papers? That would be a ridiculous loophole.
I agree, that would be ridiculous, and generally speaking, that's not the case.
What happens is if you avoid service for long enough, you get to do what's called substitution of service, where instead of physically handing the service papers to someone, you just put it into a newspaper, and then you might not even know that the proceedings have started.
And believe me, you do not wanna have a lawsuit against you and not participate.
What happens is a default judgment where you just lose, and you didn't get a chance to defend yourself.
Don't play games except service and just hire a lawyer.
It's the better way to do it.
From xtraspicytums, Why are there so many accident lawyer billboards in LA? Can someone enlighten me here? Because once I started noticing them, I can't stop now.
There was actually a Supreme Court case in the 1970s that allowed lawyers to advertise on billboards.
Before that, the law said they couldn't.
And look, if you are going to advertise related to car accidents, putting up a billboard is probably the best way to do it.
Query whether you are creating more accidents, but that's just what we call a virtuous cycle.
You're creating your own market, so that sounds great.
From @quasiasher, Wait, how is Jury Duty, the TV show, remotely legal? Waivers, lots and lots of waivers.
From @yuliettecai, Spare tips to make studying law less boring, please.
I would say this.
Behind every single case is a story.
And unless you are studying civil procedure, you can basically ignore the procedure of a case and just focus on the story of what happened.
Whether you're talking about a breach of contract or a horrible accident, there's probably something really interesting going on in the background, and it makes it a lot easier to remember and it makes it more interesting to study as well.
From @hbnw7, Why does the law have to be complicated and expensive? Question mark, question mark, question mark.
It's because lawyers hate you, and they wanna make an example of you.
You, in particular.
Lawyers get a lot of flack.
Our job is to be careful.
And the thing is, reality is really complicated.
There's a lot of stuff that can go wrong.
If you're writing a contract or you're writing a law, you have to make sure that you cover all of the different edge cases.
And not only that, language is really complicated, especially the English language.
So there's a million different cases about what constitutes a chicken.
What happens if a boat has the same name as another boat? What happens if you write a law and you forget a comma? All of those things have absolutely happened.
Judges, juries, and lawyers have to try and figure out what to do when something is ambiguous, and the world is ambiguous all the time.
From springtamige, How do lawyers ethically defend their client when there is, say, video evidence of them trying to run over a person twice? Everyone is entitled to a good defense.
And there are a million different reasons and ways that a lawyer might defend even a guilty person, even if they think that person is guilty.
Maybe the prosecutor is trying to convict someone and get a sentence that's way, way too high.
We don't want someone who's accused of petty burglary to face the death penalty.
And so there are a lot of different degrees that you can use to defend someone, regardless of whether they're guilty or not, and everyone deserves a reasonable defense.
Shubhgautam52, Will AI replace lawyers? You probably don't want an AI lawyer anytime soon.
A lawyer is not just simply a machine that knows what the law is.
A lawyer is a person with theoretically years of expertise that can help you strategically to achieve your goals.
And that's not something that AI is well-positioned to replace anytime soon.
What I suspect is going to happen is that AI is going to make a lot of the drudgery of practicing law way easier, and it will allow lawyers to focus on the really value add stuff and allow them to think strategically and to better represent their clients in the future.
So I welcome our AI overlords.
From Dean_Hare_Photo, When does attorney/client privilege end and that the lawyer is a co-conspirator begin? Well, there is a law on point, and that is called the crime fraud exception.
If a lawyer helps a client engage in fraud, then the attorney-client privilege is pierced.
And theoretically, if the lawyer really is engaging in criminality, then they can become a co-conspirator.
From ButterflyBabes5, Why is perjury not enforced? So many are saying nothing will happen to #AmberHeard for lying under oath.
Then what's the point of taking the oath? So first of all, perjury is actually enforced.
Perjury being lying under oath.
That being said, it's really hard to convict someone of perjury just because you lost a civil case.
That doesn't mean that you engaged in lying.
And in fact, even in the Amber Heard/Johnny Depp context where there was a counter suit and Johnny Depp won, that doesn't necessarily mean that anyone on the other side of that was necessarily lying.
And generally speaking, prosecutors have better things to prosecute than a marginal case of potential perjury.
From malihaness, How do lawyers just know the law? Like I had to learn the nitty-gritty of one law and it drove me nuts.
You're telling me law students just learn every law and then some international law? Lawyers rarely know every law.
The body of American law that's out there is just, it's too huge.
And it's not possible for any one person to know.
What tends to happen is, you know the law that you use in practice all the time.
Say a prayer for all the lawyers out there, because if you come to us with a novel question, we're probably not gonna know the law off the top of our head and we're gonna have to research it.
And frankly, you want it that way.
From Peter Unwin, When a driverless car is involved in an accident, who should be responsible? When a driverless car gets into an accident, there are two potential avenues of liability.
One is negligence and the other is product liability.
When it comes to product liability, basically, if you put a product into the stream of commerce, you're what's called strictly liable for any damages that that product causes.
A manufacturer could also be liable based on a negligence theory, that there was some industry norm they should have followed and they didn't.
But there are a million other people that might also be liable under a negligence theory.
Maybe there was another driver who was responsible.
It's gonna be a case by case basis, but those are gonna be the leading theories under which someone's going to be liable.
From NancyGerlach1, How does Supreme Court choose to hear a case? That is a fascinating process.
The short answer there is that of the nine justices, four of them have to agree to take up a case.
You cannot appeal to the Supreme Court as a matter of right.
The Supreme Court has to issue what's called a writ of certiorari.
In other words, they only decide what cases they hear.
Now, on what basis do the Supreme Court Justices decide? Often, if there's a conflict between the states, if there's a matter of supreme national importance, like we saw in Bush versus Gore or Roe versus Wade.
Sometimes, they'll take on a case just because they want to interpret a law or statute the way that they want to interpret it.
From Lesliew string of numbers, Can there even be a real crime in the metaverse if it does not translate into a real crime in the physical universe? Well, there's all kinds of crimes in the real world that do not involve a physical act.
There's the civil action of defamation, and that can happen in the real world or in the metaverse.
If you meet the elements of a crime in the metaverse, I would suspect that that crime is going to be prosecuted in the same way that it would be prosecuted in real life too.
From friendofgandalf, Why is there a statute of limitations for crimes? The reason the statute of limitations exist is because after a whole lot of time has passed, often, it can be really hard to find evidence.
It might be impossible to find witnesses.
So it's a balancing act.
We wanna punish the guilty, but we don't wanna punish the innocent.
So we have a statute of limitations to make sure that it's fair for a defendant to be able to defend themselves in a case where a lot of time has passed, and otherwise, they wouldn't be able to defend themselves.
From StoveAllergy, When lawyers say something in court and object to it and the judge tells the jury to disregard that, do they think it's deleted from their brains? No, definitely not.
Lawyers are fully cognizant of the fact that things that happen in court, even when you get eliminating instruction from the judge, it's impossible for anyone to literally forget what has happened.
That being said, a judge knows when you're screwing around.
And if the judge thinks that you are intentionally violating the decorum of the court, the judge will use something called contempt.
And sometimes, lawyers go to jail over things that they did in a courtroom.
Kollackwalker asks, It's like appeal, appeal, and appeal until you get the answer you like.
Is that justice? How many appeals do you get? So generally speaking, you only get one appeal.
Now, theoretically, there are different courts of appeals, so you might theoretically get one more shot at the apple, but courts of appeal that are above the intermediate court of appeal are like the Supreme Court, and they only take the cases that they want.
So it's very rare to go past one appeal.
Alright, that's all of our questions.
I hope you learn something today, and until next time.
I'll see you in court.
Gordon Ramsay Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Ken Jeong Answers Medical Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter Blizzard's Jeff Kaplan Answers Overwatch Questions From Twitter Nick Offerman Answers Woodworking Questions From Twitter Bungie's Luke Smith Answers Destiny Questions From Twitter Jackie Chan & Olivia Munn Answer Martial Arts Questions From Twitter Scott Kelly Answers Astronaut Questions From Twitter LaVar Ball Answers Basketball Questions From Twitter Dillon Francis Answers DJ Questions From Twitter Tony Hawk Answers Skateboarding Questions From Twitter Jerry Rice Answers Football Questions From Twitter Garry Kasparov Answers Chess Questions From Twitter U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Athletes Answer Olympics Questions From Twitter Neuroscientist Anil Seth Answers Neuroscience Questions From Twitter Blizzard's Ben Brode Answers Hearthstone Questions From Twitter John Cena Answers Wrestling Questions From Twitter The Slow Mo Guys Answer Slow Motion Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Even More Science Questions From Twitter James Cameron Answers Sci-Fi Questions From Twitter Best of Tech Support: Bill Nye, Neil DeGrasse Tyson and More Answer Science Questions from Twitter Riot Games' Greg Street Answers League of Legends Questions from Twitter Riot Games' Greg Street Answers Even More League of Legends Questions from Twitter PlayerUnknown Answers PUBG Questions From Twitter Liza Koshy, Markiplier, Rhett & Link, and Hannah Hart Answer YouTube Creator Questions From Twitter NCT 127 Answer K-Pop Questions From Twitter Neil deGrasse Tyson Answers Science Questions From Twitter Ken Jeong Answers More Medical Questions From Twitter Bon Appétit's Brad & Claire Answer Cooking Questions From Twitter Bang Bang Answers Tattoo Questions From Twitter Ed Boon Answers Mortal Kombat 11 Questions From Twitter Nick Jonas and Kelly Clarkson Answer Singing Questions from Twitter Penn Jillette Answers Magic Questions From Twitter The Russo Brothers Answer Avengers: Endgame Questions From Twitter Alex Honnold Answers Climbing Questions From Twitter Sloane Stephens Answers Tennis Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter - Part 3 Astronaut Nicole Stott Answers Space Questions From Twitter Mark Cuban Answers Mogul Questions From Twitter Ubisoft's Alexander Karpazis Answers Rainbow Six Siege Questions From Twitter Marathon Champion Answers Running Questions From Twitter Ninja Answers Fortnite Questions From Twitter Cybersecurity Expert Answers Hacking Questions From Twitter Bon Appétit's Brad & Chris Answer Thanksgiving Questions From Twitter SuperM Answers K-Pop Questions From Twitter The Best of Tech Support: Ken Jeong, Bill Nye, Nicole Stott and More Twitter's Jack Dorsey Answers Twitter Questions From Twitter Jodie Whittaker Answers Doctor Who Questions From Twitter Astronomer Jill Tarter Answers Alien Questions From Twitter Tattoo Artist Bang Bang Answers More Tattoo Questions From Twitter Respawn Answers Apex Legends Questions From Twitter Michael Strahan Answers Super Bowl Questions From Twitter Dr. Martin Blaser Answers Coronavirus Questions From Twitter Scott Adkins Answers Martial Arts Training Questions From Twitter Psychiatrist Daniel Amen Answers Brain Questions From Twitter The Hamilton Cast Answers Hamilton Questions From Twitter Travis & Lyn-Z Pastrana Answer Stunt Questions From Twitter Mayim Bialik Answers Neuroscience Questions From Twitter Zach King Answers TikTok Questions From Twitter Riot Games Answers League of Legends Questions from Twitter Aaron Sorkin Answers Screenwriting Questions From Twitter Survivorman Les Stroud Answers Survival Questions From Twitter Joe Manganiello Answers Dungeons & Dragons Questions From Twitter "Star Wars Explained" Answers Star Wars Questions From Twitter Wizards of the Coast Answer Magic: The Gathering Questions From Twitter "Star Wars Explained" Answers More Star Wars Questions From Twitter VFX Artist Answers Movie & TV VFX Questions From Twitter CrossFit Coach Answers CrossFit Questions From Twitter Yo-Yo Ma Answers Cello Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers Cadaver Questions From Twitter Babish Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Jacob Collier Answers Music Theory Questions From Twitter The Lord of the Rings Expert Answers More Tolkien Questions From Twitter Wolfgang Puck Answers Restaurant Questions From Twitter Fast & Furious Car Expert Answers Car Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers Body Language Questions From Twitter Olympian Dominique Dawes Answers Gymnastics Questions From Twitter Allyson Felix Answers Track Questions From Twitter Dr. Michio Kaku Answers Physics Questions From Twitter Former NASA Astronaut Answers Space Questions From Twitter Surgeon Answers Surgery Questions From Twitter Beekeeper Answers Bee Questions From Twitter Michael Pollan Answers Psychedelics Questions From Twitter Ultramarathoner Answers Questions From Twitter Bug Expert Answers Insect Questions From Twitter Former Cult Member Answers Cult Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers MORE Dead Body Questions From Twitter Toxicologist Answers Poison Questions From Twitter Brewmaster Answers Beer Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers Biology Questions From Twitter James Dyson Answers Design Questions From Twitter Dermatologist Answers Skin Questions From Twitter Dwyane Wade Answers Basketball Questions From Twitter Baker Answers Baking Questions from Twitter Astrophysicist Answers Questions From Twitter Age Expert Answers Aging Questions From Twitter Fertility Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Biological Anthropologist Answers Love Questions From Twitter Mathematician Answers Math Questions From Twitter Statistician Answers Stats Questions From Twitter Sleep Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Botanist Answers Plant Questions From Twitter Ornithologist Answers Bird Questions From Twitter Alex Honnold Answers MORE Rock Climbing Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers MORE Body Language Questions From Twitter Waste Expert Answers Garbage Questions From Twitter Garbage Boss Answers Trash Questions From Twitter J. Kenji López-Alt Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Veterinarian Answers Pet Questions From Twitter Doctor Answers Gut Questions From Twitter Chemist Answers Chemistry Questions From Twitter Taste Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Paleontologist Answers Dinosaur Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers More Biology Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers Even More Biology Questions From Twitter ER Doctor Answers Injury Questions From Twitter Toxicologist Answers More Poison Questions From Twitter Energy Expert Answers Energy Questions From Twitter BBQ Pitmaster Answers BBQ Questions From Twitter Neil Gaiman Answers Mythology Questions From Twitter Sushi Chef Answers Sushi Questions From Twitter The Lord of the Rings Expert Answers Tolkien Questions From Twitter Audiologist Answers Hearing Questions From Twitter Marine Biologist Answers Shark Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter - Part 4 John McEnroe Answers Tennis Questions From Twitter Malcolm Gladwell Answers Research Questions From Twitter Financial Advisor Answers Money Questions From Twitter Stanford Computer Scientist Answers Coding Questions From Twitter Wildlife Vet Answers Wild Animal Questions From Twitter Climate Scientist Answers Earth Questions From Twitter Medical Doctor Answers Hormone Questions From Twitter James Hoffmann Answers Coffee Questions From Twitter Video Game Director Answers Questions From Twitter Robotics Professor Answers Robot Questions From Twitter Scam Fighters Answer Scam Questions From Twitter Forensics Expert Answers Crime Scene Questions From Twitter Chess Pro Answers Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers Body Language Questions From Twitter...Once Again Memory Champion Answers Questions From Twitter Neuroscientist Answers Illusion Questions From Twitter Immunologist Answers Immune System Questions From Twitter Rocket Scientists Answer Questions From Twitter How Vinyl Records Are Made (with Third Man Records) Neurosurgeon Answers Brain Surgery Questions From Twitter Therapist Answers Relationship Questions From Twitter Polyphia's Tim Henson Answers Guitar Questions From Twitter Structural Engineer Answers City Questions From Twitter Harvard Professor Answers Happiness Questions From Twitter A.I. Expert Answers A.I. Questions From Twitter Pizza Chef Answers Pizza Questions From Twitter Former CIA Chief of Disguise Answers Spy Questions From Twitter Astrophysicist Answers Space Questions From Twitter Cannabis Scientist Answers Questions From Twitter Sommelier Answers Wine Questions From Twitter Mycologist Answers Mushroom Questions From Twitter Genndy Tartakovsky Answers Animation Questions From Twitter Pro Card Counter Answers Casino Questions From Twitter Doctor Answers Lung Questions From Twitter Paul Hollywood & Prue Leith Answer Baking Questions From Twitter Geneticist Answers Genetics Questions From Twitter Sneaker Expert Jeff Staple Answers Sneaker Questions From Twitter 'The Points Guy' Brian Kelly Answers Travel Questions From Twitter Master Chef Answers Indian Food & Curry Questions From Twitter Archaeologist Answers Archaeology Questions From Twitter LegalEagle's Devin Stone Answers Law Questions From Twitter Todd McFarlane Answers Comics Questions From Twitter Reptile Expert Answers Reptile Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers Burial Questions From Twitter Eye Doctor Answers Eye Questions From Twitter Computer Scientist Answers Computer Questions From Twitter Neurologist Answers Nerve Questions From Twitter Hacker Answers Penetration Test Questions From Twitter Nutritionist Answers Nutrition Questions From Twitter Experts Predict the Future of Technology, AI & Humanity Doctor Answers Blood Questions From Twitter Sports Statistician Answers Sports Math Questions From Twitter Shark Tank's Mark Cuban Answers Business Questions From Twitter Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 Director Answers Video Game Questions From Twitter Criminologist Answers True Crime Questions From Twitter Physicist Answers Physics Questions From Twitter | Tech Support Chess Pro Answers More Questions From Twitter Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
