Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons How This Guy Became The Best Rock Skipper On The Planet About Released on 06/23/2023 [Wendy] [buoyant guitar music] How many times have you ever seen one stone skip? [Spectator] Whoa.
[Participant] 'Cause that is my best throw, ever.
The most I ever skipped, verified, was 88 times, and that currently, is the standing world record for about the last 10 years.
Whoa, yeah, yeah. Whoa.
[crowd cheers and claps] [Wendy] Meet Kurt Steiner, a world champion, Guinness World record holder and master of the physics of stone skipping.
Stone skipping is not big enough to support anybody's lifestyle, even mine. [laughs] It's a labor of love and a hobby passion.
I entered my first tournament in 2000, and that's kind of where I got serious about it.
Kind of stuck with me for the last 20, 25 years.
[Wendy] And it's caught some people's attention, including Wired ourselves, in 2019.
And every time Kurt goes to throw he has to consider five things.
Speed, the faster you throw it, the more speed it has.
The spin, is how fast the rock is spinning.
You can change how fast it's spinning by your delivery and how you hold the stone as well.
The tilt angle, if this is the front then the tilt angle is how much of this you add to the stone.
The attack angle is from where you let go to where it hits the water.
The twist angle is like the roll in an airplane and it plays into distance throwing and wind conditions.
Interestingly enough, when it comes to a lot of the numbers, I'm not the guy who pays attention to it.
How many skips was it? I don't know.
You're the judge.
I'm just here to throw.
When I come up to the shore to throw a stone the three things I'm looking at are the wind direction.
I try to keep it to my back.
The breeze from behind helps so you can release it more horizontally.
The water surface, there's no real pattern in it.
The most you have is a kind of random distribution of tips.
They can actually keep the rock riding up on the water.
And the other thing you look at is your footing.
Is it sloped? Is it slippery? Is it sand, is it dirt? Are you skipping off a rock? So- Have you ever fallen in? Oh yeah, fallen in, broke my knee cap, all kinds of, yeah.
If your plant foot goes, you're just outta control.
So I'm using a set of thin, light rocks and I'm gonna throw in what I call, a whip delivery.
I will be pulling down and then driving up against that as I torque, and that'll snap my hand out.
I'm gonna be trying to land close and get a dense skip pattern here.
Something to that effect, if you can see it.
[water splashes] Oh, what happened there was my twist was a little bit off.
I came in with a little too much of this angle and it bit the water instead of skipping off the back edge.
I'm trying to really land it close here.
[water splashes] There we go.
See now, I probably didn't land but 10 feet out in front of me.
So now, I'm gonna switch up to a little heavier stone, but I'm gonna be throwing more horizontally across my body.
This gives you a little more velocity and a little more depth.
As a caveat, I will say, I'm still in physical therapy from shoulder surgery, so don't tell my doctor.
[gentle piano music] At the core of it, to me, stone skipping is really just an appeal to get outside.
Don't take my word for it, just do it.
A lot of people know it but don't do it because they don't think they have the time.
Make the time for it, it'll pay off.
I think what's not understood is how impressive it can be when it's taken above the level of a picnic.
A simple thing, through a mastery, becomes a really visual, spiritual kind of art form. [spectators murmur] It's a way of making joy out of nothing, and that can't be valueless, [laughs] right? [cheerful music] Here I am, this is where I get most of my stones.
Southeast shore of Lake Erie, lots of shale on the cliffs.
They fall out, they get polished up, they make skipping stones, like here, see that? That caught my eye.
Look how flat that surface is, compared to the rest here.
So the next thing I want to do is flip it over and hope it's still good, and it is.
So right there we have the makings of a really good rock.
It's flat, it's got a little bit of a curved top.
This edge right here, is not too aggressive.
It's not so sharp that if I drag my finger on it, it'll hurt me.
This stone demonstrates sharp versus soft, my terms, but it happens to have split so that the top surface here, is rounded, and the other side has a very sharp transition from the face to the side.
So if I were throwing in rougher water I might consider throwing the soft side down because it can kinda run over those ripples a little more efficiently, like a bigger tire wheel.
However, any truly sharp stone is a bit of a slot machine, [laughs] right? 'Cause even a millimeter of a water ripple, it looks huge to the stone.
This is oversized, but I just happened to see this.
If this was a skipping stone, you see this lobe here? And you see how this angle here, is a sharper angle than from here, around this way.
If you think of that like the tooth of a saw, if it's spinning this way, it's going to bite more.
If it were spinning this way, it's what I would call feathering, the tip follows the rotation.
If I was right-handed, this is perfect 'cause the tip is following my natural spin.
But if I was left-handed, now, I'm spinning it this way and it's gonna bite.
So you can always convert a rock from right-handed to left-handed by flipping it over.
The problem is sometimes, the bottom surface isn't the one you want down.
So stones can be very conflicted.
I think the most prestigious stone skipping requires you to learn why you want a stone.
And that means you need to be able to select from infinite variety and know how to predict what it's going to do, based on your experience and your understanding of the mechanics of it.
Here we go, this is a pretty bad rock.
You know, if I had to pick which side is up I would want to go this way.
But if I do, it's got a tooth, so that's bad.
If you were in a boat and you stuck your hand down, that's kind of what this edge is gonna do.
Every time it comes around, it's gonna grab the water.
I have some correspondence with some pretty high-power physicists, and I swear I have told them some things, that they actually kind of frowned at me at.
I don't wanna toot my own horn but I believe that there are certain things I discovered in stone skipping behavior, or object skipping that, you know, other people come out and say, look what we discovered.
And I'm like, I told ya.
[Wendy] Kurt's understanding of the physics of stone skipping led him to the world record, and also a year's long rivalry.
Most of stone skipping now, kind of picks up around 2013-ish.
But for 10, 12 years before that, Russ Byars and I were also kind of having this go-round.
So back in 2000 we were in the same tournament.
I edged him the first year, second year though he got in.
And then for the next decade we kinda sharpened each other up, you know? We were rivals.
But then the movie was made, Skip Stones For Fudge, and we shared a hotel room in Boston.
What I liked about Russ is I could just talk to him, bluntly, and he would answer me bluntly, and none of it would get personal.
And from that day on we were like, really good friends.
Yeah.
[gentle music] Unfortunately he did succumb to cancer very shortly after that.
So it was not long after I felt like I'd had this breakthrough.
I was always kind of a standoffish social person anyway, so for him to get into me that way was a major event in my life.
And so when he died so shortly after, I felt like that was breached, it just made me sad.
But it shows you that the power of connection that can happen when these kinds of minds get together, and this kind of activity, it's a beautiful thing.
[upbeat music] [Wendy] Kurt continually tries to expand the community he loves, and teach new people about rock skipping.
So he took me out on a chilly Pennsylvania afternoon and tried to teach me how to throw like a pro.
Well, I'm gonna give you a stone here.
And the first thing we do when we're doing this is just figure out where are you gonna hold that.
I'd like to see what you do naturally or naively, and then we'll go from there.
[Wendy] I would do something like this? Kinda looking at it, and you're looking at, for basically, your pointiest point.
So that's a possibility, but I kinda like that one.
See that little bump there? Uh huh.
[Kurt] Put that like right in the middle of the pad of your pointer there, yes. There? That's about right. Okay.
Also, can you get your thumb up on top more? With that wrist more in your, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Now, first of all, just holding it roughly like that, just see how it looks when you throw it.
Okay. Whoa. [water splashes] [Kurt] There you go.
See, the grip already, you're underway.
That's so much farther than I've ever done.
So now, the only thing I'm gonna say, do it a little different, is to squeeze a little bit harder and maybe lower the front edge of your stone down just like, maybe about there.
Okay. See what that does.
And let her rip. [upbeat music] There it is. [laughs] What? Ah, that's pretty good.
So Wendy, you're halfway to being a pro.
Practice and experimentation, paying attention to what you're doing, and adjustments, won't be long, you'll be an addict.
[Kurt and Wendy laughs] [Wendy] Kurt's love of rock skipping is a constant in his life, and the act of throwing is its own sanctuary from the world.
When I'm standing there and I'm either about to throw a rock or I have been, it's one of those stop time things.
You kinda feel alone, but not in a lonely way.
To me, it's a lot of forgetting.
It's forgetting how you got there, why you're there, what you gotta do when you leave.
When I was real small and I was throwing, I used to project myself into the stone.
Like, I couldn't surf, but I could surf as a stone.
I guess, one thing I don't do is think about how I'm thinking when I'm standing up there.
[laughs] I just, I feel it, let it go and it's all good.
[music ends] The Ultimate Paper Airplane A DIY Space Suit for the 99 Percent Meet the 89-Year Old Who Built a Train in His Backyard How This Woman Rides 20,000 Miles a Year on Her Bike How This Guy Folds and Flies World Record Paper Airplanes Meet The Domino Artist Behind These Amazing Chain Reactions These Star Wars Fans Are Building a Full-Size Millennium Falcon Cockpit Melody Yang Makes Bubbles That Billow, Bend and Break Records How Joseph's Machines Builds Crazy Contraptions How Gravity Built the World's Fastest Jet Suit How a Harvard Professor Uses Toys and Origami to Transform Design How This Guy Built a Roller Coaster In His Backyard How This Guy Became a World Yo-Yo Champion How This Guy Became a World Champion Boomerang Thrower How This Artist Makes Sculptures Out of Old Typewriter Parts How to Make and Throw an Indoor Boomerang How This Pinball Collector is Saving the Game How This Woman Started Diving in DIY Subs How This Artist Makes Mirrors Out of Pompoms and Wooden Tiles How This Guy Made the World's Hottest Peppers How This Guy Became a Whistling Champion How This Guy Builds Record-Breaking Balloon Sculptures How This Guy Became a Pizza Spinning World Champion How This Artist Uses A.I. & Data to Teach Us About the World How This Artist Collapses Dimensions How This Guy Makes His Own Novelty Instruments How This Guy Builds Mesmerizing Kinetic Sculptures How This Guy Balances Impossible Rock Structures How This Guy Stacks Playing Cards Impossibly High How This Artist Makes Magnetic Fluid Sculptures How This Guy Paddles Kayaks Over Massive Waterfalls How This Guy Makes Incredible Sand Art How This Girl Takes Indoor Skydiving to the Next Level How This Woman Makes Mesmerizing Light Sculptures How This Craftsman Weaves Huge Wooden Sculptures How This Guy Replicates Diamonds How This Guy Makes Lifelike Cardboard Sculptures How This Guy Builds Amazing Lego Models How This Woman Makes Epic Gingerbread Houses How This Guy Mastered Fingerboarding How This Guy Makes Real-Life Marvel Gadgets How This Woman Mastered Jump Rope Inside the World's Greatest Dungeons & Dragons Game How This Treasure Hunter Finds Underwater Riches How This Woman Paints Hyperrealistic Nail Art How This Pro Slackliner Crosses Canyons Meet the Self-Taught Medicinal Mushroom Cultivator Meet the Guy Making Horror Movie Masks for 40 Years How this Guy Makes the World’s Smallest Handmade Sculptures How This Chalk Artist Creates Illusions on Pavement How This Guy Mastered the Slinky How This Guy Makes Puppets That Move Like Real Creatures How This Woman Creates God of War’s Sound Effects How This Guy Makes the World's Most Inventive Clocks How This Guy Became The Best Rock Skipper On The Planet How This Guy Invents Crazy Skateboards For Custom Tricks How This Trick Shot Artist Invented 10,000+ Pool Shots Why This Woman Deconstructs Antique Books To Save Them Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
