Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Stephen Curry Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions About Released on 08/02/2023 Hey, this is Stephen Curry, and this is Wired Autocomplete Interview.
[upbeat music] All righty.
[upbeat music] What is Stephen Curry's highest scoring game? 62 points in NBA a couple years ago.
There's a lot of chatter just around, you know, post championship run, reality of, you know, our new team and roster and how it's being defended and all that.
I heard it all and then had the game of my life, felt like I couldn't miss.
What is Stephen Curry's favorite kind of play? Ooh, that's a good question.
Sounds like a game winning shot.
I'd say probably like the a four point play, you know, getting fouled on three point line and knocking down a shot 'cause I get to do my count and have a little fun with it.
What is Stephen Curry's vertical jump? That is a great question that I don't even know if I know the answer to.
I think back in 2009 when I went through the pre-draft combine I think it was like 28, 32 maybe.
Doesn't really matter now I play below the rim.
What does Steph Curry eat before a game? It's usually like little grilled chicken, some pasta, a couple of veggies.
It's way better when Ayesha cooks it though.
You know just try to have a little bit of protein, carbs, and veggies and get, get ready for the game.
Usually like three hours before the game.
What song does Stephen Curry listen to before games? It depends on my mood.
I have a playlist that is probably like an hour long that has all type of music.
It's got some rap, some R&B, some Christian raps, some gospels, some country.
It's got literally everything on there.
But I would say Lupe Fiasco and Lecrae are like the two featured artists on most of my pre-game playlists.
Why Stephen Curry is called chef? This is very hot topic at our house, so I get the nickname Chef Curry.
Drake dropped the first line Chef Curry with the pot, which is obviously a call to me kind of cooking him up on the court.
The real Chef Curry is Ayesha Curry.
Borrow the nickname every once in a while while I'm on the court, but she's the real Chef Curry.
Why Steph Curry is underrated? Growing up in the game I was always, you know, the skinniest kid on the court, was a three-star recruit, didn't really get all the major offers.
I knew I could play with the best of the best in the country.
I knew that even though I was a late bloomer and didn't pass the eye test that I could excel at the highest level.
I just needed the opportunity to showcase my skills, and that underrated mindset is part of my DNA forever.
So no matter how many accolades and accomplishments I've had I still carry that as motivation and inspiration to, you know, prove to myself more than anybody that I'm capable of doing, you know, great things on and off the court.
That's the underrated mindset.
When you told me when I went to Davidson, would I ever have a documentary about this part of my life, I would've been like, What are you talking about? What does, what does that even mean? But now knowing that, you know, all the great things that have happened and everything that was born in that experience that I had those three years, it's the perfect title for the origin story of everything that I've been able to accomplish.
Why was Stephen Curry drafted so late? Some would say seven is not so late, 7 outta 60.
There were three other point guards that were drafted ahead of me, and obviously, you know, over the last 15 years I've tried to excel at the highest level and make that seventh draft pick status look really really low.
So it's kind of a revisionist history a little bit on that one, but I love the fact that seven is now seen as way too late.
Where did Stephen Curry meet his wife? I met Ayesha, junior year of high school at our church youth group.
So we didn't go to the same high school.
Didn't really date, we're in the same circle of friends, and then dated like about three or four years later, and the rest is history.
Stephen Curry best shots.
I mean the OKC shot, the big three, and game six of the 2022 finals.
There's a lot of them so that's nice.
We're talking just basketball and not golf.
I had 'em very recently, a hole in one, at the American Century Classic on the seventh hole.
It's 152 yards of pitching wedge, and then I had a nice little 20 foot eagle putt to win the tournament.
So my first ever, you know, tournament win there.
So I had some really good golf ones too.
Does Stephen Curry play defense? I love that question.
That's a hell of a question.
The answer is yes, but sometimes.
Stephen Curry shoe size.
I wear a size 12 and a half, sometimes a 13 depending on the kicks.
[Interviewer] Any idea who might have the biggest in the league? Probably in the history of the League, I would say Shaq, but right now probably either Cady or Joel Embiid maybe, just based off of sheer size.
Stephen Curry night night.
That was my little game clenching celebration any time I hit a big shot.
Just kind of like put 'em to sleep, you know, put the kids to bed.
It became kind of the way after the finals in 22, hit a lot of different sports.
Still showed itself every once in a while so pretty cool moment.
All righty.
Will Stephen Curry be in the hall of fame? I sure hope so.
Hopefully that's pretty much guaranteed at this point.
Not gonna slow me down at all to acknowledge that, but hopefully that's pretty much guaranteed.
Stephen Curry tips on shooting.
It all starts with balance.
So if you look at the greatest shooters in the history of the league, nobody shoots the same as somebody else.
So we've all kind of perfected our mechanics, and are able to repeat the same release and the same shooting tempo, form, balance every single time we shoot, but it all starts in your feet.
If you have bad feet, bad balance, you're never gonna be able to release the ball the way that you want to and have the accuracy and consistency that you need to be called a great shooter.
So it all starts with your, with your feet.
Stephen Curry lifestyle.
Wow, I don't even know how to define the lifestyle of just, of being an all around great guy.
No, I just like to have fun.
I like to enjoy my life, enjoy the things I get to do, be present in the moment.
Take some chances.
Extend your comfort zone a little bit, on and off the court, on and off, of course, family.
Just trying to have fun and enjoy the blessings that God's given me.
That's the lifestyle.
Stephen Curry legacy.
You know, being able to change the game, and, you know, what we stand for, changing the game for good.
A lot of the ways that the game is played now, I feel like I've had a huge part in that.
How people see their ability to be creative on the court, stretch their range, stretch their imagination, but then also off the court providing a lot of opportunity, inspiration for people to find their true potential in life and trying to be a a big inspiration in that part as well.
Who did Stephen Curry beat in the NBA finals? We beat Cleveland three times 15, 17, and 18, and we beat Boston in the 22 finals.
Four and two in the finals.
We lost to Cleveland once and we lost to Toronto.
Gotta win some, you lose some.
It's all good.
[Interviewer] Is there a performance of those four that you felt more most proud of? Definitely game four of the 2022 finals.
That was a hostile environment and we're down to one.
We either to win that to give ourselves some life, and had one of my best games of my career considering the magnitude of that moment for sure.
Stephen Curry eye color.
I'm the green-eyed monster as my mom used to call me when I was a little little kid, so.
Yeah, we have some good eyes in our family.
Stephen Curry unanimous MVP.
That was in an unreal year.
It was the 73 and 9 year.
It was also the year we lost in NBA finals.
To be, you know, the first unanimous MVP winner in the NBA history is crazy.
There's been so many amazing athletes that I've, I'm following their footsteps, so.
It was special, I do remember exactly where I was when they announced it.
I was sitting right underneath the TV at my house in Walnut Creek, and the whole family went crazy.
So very, very special moment for sure.
Stephen Curry half court shots.
It's hilarious 'cause some people have sent me the link of like there's a compilation of all the half court shots that I've made.
The funny part is I try, I practice all of 'em, you know, whenever I'm in a gym.
It's how I end every workout pretty much.
And most of the shots that you see in the game, it's not the first time I've either taken or making 'em 'cause it's just like that fun when I'm in the gym and that usually involves kind of chucking 'em from half court every once in a while.
There's a lot of people that, you know, want to wait till right after the buzzer to throw it up 'cause if it goes in it's really cool, but if they miss it doesn't count towards the stats.
I really don't care what my percentage is because I'm gonna keep shooting them.
Stephen Curry records That sounds like I got a studio or something.
Like I'm out here putting out all the greatest and latest music, nah.
The most special record I guess is the 2,974, which is still now stretching into the 3,000 of three pointers made, which I'm trying to keep stretching the record there in the NBA history.
There's been a lot of great shooters, Reggie Miller, Ray Allen, even my dad.
I hope to keep pushing it where it's untouchable, but I know how the game has changed so I'm assuming that somebody's gonna be coming behind, and and we will, we'll challenge it at some point, but hopefully not anytime soon.
Can Stephen Curry dunk? I used to be able to.
I definitely can.
You won't see it in the games that often 'cause now I'm in the business of, you know, conserving, you know, energy.
Two points is two points as they always say, so take the layup 'cause I've definitely missed a bunch of dunks.
I think you can look it up, a highlight reel of dunks that I've had in my career which is cool.
I am 6'3 so I should be able to get up there.
How does Stephen Curry train? You know, I really pride myself on the work that I put into the game, whether it's in the weight room, you know, my skillset on the court, conditioning, and what they call the unseen hours.
I really pride myself on the work ethic 'cause that's the only way that I could be successful.
It's the gift that keeps on giving.
You gotta keep putting in the time to get the results.
[Interviewer] Do you do a lot of golf prep or does this just come natural? Let's say if I put in a hundred hours on basketball, probably about 10 hours of golf.
It's the hardest sport in the world to try to to master.
I don't think anybody has other than Tiger and maybe Jack Nicklaus.
I do obsess over it a lot, so I watch a lot of swing videos.
What is Stephen Curry's wingspan? This is a sour spot for me.
A lot of guys in the NBA have longer wingspans than their height.
Way better on defense, can steal the ball, can block shots.
So there's a lot of guys who are like 6'5 with 6'9 or 6'10 wingspans.
I am the average 6'3 guy with 6'3 wingspans.
So nothing remarkable there at all.
That's what I got.
Where is Steph Curry on the scoring list? I wanna say I'm like 48th or something like that, but I don't know where I'm at.
[Interviewer] Was there anyone you felt significant passing? It sounds crazy 'cause it was, it was a long time ago, pops, but my [chuckles], my dad.
Most of his career, especially towards the end, and all the milestones that he has.
So to pass him the scoring books is just, you know, something that's special.
He played 16 years in the NBA, and that was always a goal of mine.
So I'm entering year 15, I'm almost there, but I feel like I got a lot left.
Just trying to enjoy the experience and the process.
All right, we got through all of those boards.
There's some great questions, some weird ones in there too.
I actually did learn a little bit about myself through these questions too.
So till next time we out.
Melissa McCarthy & Kristen Bell Answer The Web’s Most Searched Questions NASA Astronauts Answer The Web’s Most Searched Questions Common Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Ice Cube Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Eve Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Seth Rogen & Rose Byrne Answer The Web’s Most Searched Questions The Cast of Warcraft Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Slow Mo Guys, MatPat, AsapSCIENCE, and Burnie Burns Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dana Carvey Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Mr. Robot's Carly Chaikin Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Cara Delevingne Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Chelsea Handler Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Blindspot's Jaimie Alexander Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Aniston & Jason Bateman Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kate McKinnon & Vanessa Bayer Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Cast of "Rogue One" Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tracy Morgan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions The Cast of 'Sesame Street' Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Samuel L. Jackson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Lawrence & Chris Pratt Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Reggie Watts Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ryan Reynolds & Jake Gyllenhaal Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Evans Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Morgan Freeman, Michael Caine, and Alan Arkin Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Anne Hathaway & Jason Sudeikis Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Salma Hayek & Eugenio Derbez Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Amy Schumer & Goldie Hawn Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Steve Carell & Kristen Wiig Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Will Ferrell & Amy Poehler Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Al Gore Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions on Climate Change Matthew McConaughey & Idris Elba Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dave Franco, Kumail Nanjiani and Fred Armisen Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Cruise & Doug Liman Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Josh Brolin & Taylor Kitsch Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Matt Damon & Julianne Moore Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Nick Jonas Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Gaten Matarazzo and Joe Keery Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Last Jedi Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions John Cena Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Owen Wilson & Ed Helms Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Will Smith & Joel Edgerton Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Black Panther Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Google Search Team Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bruce Willis Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charlize Theron & David Oyelowo Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions This Is Us Cast Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Alicia Vikander Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Garner Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charlie Day Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jeff Goldblum Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Taraji P. Henson & Tyler Perry Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions John Krasinski Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ansel Elgort & Suki Waterhouse Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Terry Crews Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Shawn Mendes Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Solo Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jodie Foster Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Best of Autocomplete: The Cast of Black Panther, Stranger Things and More Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Robert Pattinson & Mia Wasikowska Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Alison Brie & Marc Maron Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions 'Sorry to Bother You' Cast Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions 'Ant-Man and the Wasp' Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Will Arnett Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Mila Kunis & Justin Theroux Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ewan McGregor & Hayley Atwell Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Liza Koshy Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions 'Dog Days' Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ken Jeong Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Mark Wahlberg, Ronda Rousey and Lauren Cohan Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions John Cho Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Rami Malek & Charlie Hunnam Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Anna Kendrick & Blake Lively Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Paul McCartney Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Keegan-Michael Key & Olivia Munn Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Elizabeth Olsen Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Hart & Tiffany Haddish Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Rhett & Link Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Riverdale Cast Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bella Thorne Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John Mulaney & Nick Kroll Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Aubrey Plaza & Craig Robinson Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Try Guys Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Keira Knightley & Mackenzie Foy Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Julia Roberts & Dermot Mulroney Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Emily Ratajkowski & Aaron Paul Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Sarah Silverman & John C. Reilly Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Margot Robbie & Saoirse Ronan Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Natalie Portman & Jude Law Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Lin-Manuel Miranda Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Best WIRED Autocomplete Moments of 2018 Feat. Liza Koshy, David Dobrik, The Try Guys & More Ninja Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zedd Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bryce Dallas Howard Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions James McAvoy & Sarah Paulson Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jane Fonda & Lily Tomlin Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Daniel Radcliffe Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Priyanka Chopra, Rebel Wilson & Adam Devine Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions David Dobrik Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Brie Larson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Freddie Highmore Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Oscar Isaac & Pedro Pascal Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Markiplier Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Colin Farrell & Danny DeVito Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Queer Eye Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Nikolaj Coster-Waldau Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Gina Rodriguez Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sean Bean Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Anthony Mackie Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lily Collins & Nicholas Hoult Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Wu-Tang Clan Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Wanda Sykes Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charles Melton Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jessica Alba & Gabrielle Union Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jon Hamm & David Tennant Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Thomas Middleditch & O'Shea Jackson Jr. Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Sophie Turner & Jessica Chastain Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Mindy Kaling & Emma Thompson Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Smosh Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Holland, Zendaya & Jacob Batalon Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Millie Bobby Brown, Finn Wolfhard & Noah Schnapp Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Winona Ryder & David Harbour Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Eric Andre Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Machine Gun Kelly Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charlie Puth Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Novak Djokovic Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Anderson Cooper Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jim Gaffigan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Liam Payne Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lilly Singh Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Gwen Stefani Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Dove Cameron Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Smith Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Niall Horan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lele Pons Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Hailee Steinfeld Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Louis Tomlinson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kiernan Shipka & Isabela Merced Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kristen Stewart, Naomi Scott, and Ella Balinska Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jack Black & Awkwafina Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions KJ Apa Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions The Best of Autocomplete 2019: Funniest Moments from Stranger Things, Spider-Man and More Billy Eichner & Cobie Smulders Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Frozen 2 Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jada Pinkett Smith Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zach Galifianakis & Zoe Saldana Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Elijah Wood Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Noah Centineo & Lana Condor Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Lucy Hale Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Patrick Stewart Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Norman Reedus Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Astronaut Chris Hadfield Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Nick Offerman Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Binging with Babish Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jamie Dornan & Shailene Woodley Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ellie Kemper Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Joe Biden Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ricky Gervais Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Alicia Keys Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tony Hawk Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Russell Crowe Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Bacon Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Joey King & Joel Courtney Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kermit & Miss Piggy Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Alessia Cara Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jamie Foxx & Joseph Gordon-Levitt Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Mayim Bialik Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Desus & Mero Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dolly Parton Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ruby Rose Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sonequa Martin-Green Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chelsea Handler Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John C. Reilly & Tim Heidecker Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Joel McHale Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Questlove Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Dua Lipa Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zara Larsson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bob Odenkirk and RZA Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions SpongeBob's Tom Kenny & Bill Fagerbakke Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jackson Wang Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Eric Andre Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions...Again LILHUDDY Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Polo G Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Hank Azaria Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zack Snyder Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions TWICE Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions MONSTA X Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Siri, Alexa and Google Home Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Rich Brian and NIKI Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions B.I Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Never Have I Ever Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions M. Night Shyamalan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Henry Golding Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions BTS Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Emily Blunt & Dwayne Johnson Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Hudson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Outer Banks Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Rita Ora Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Dove Cameron Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions...Again Daniel Radcliffe Answers MORE of the Web's Most Searched Questions Ben Platt & Amandla Stenberg Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Hardy & Andy Serkis Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions On My Block Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Daniel Craig & Lashana Lynch Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions William Shatner Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Madison Beer Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Marshmello Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Amanda Seyfried & Finn Wittrock Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Nina Dobrev Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kit Harington Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kristen Bell & Kirby Howell-Baptiste Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dominic Monaghan & Billy Boyd Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Cowboy Bebop Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions YouTube Search Team Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jack Whitehall Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Andrew Garfield Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sabrina Carpenter Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Simu Liu Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Holland, Zendaya & Jacob Batalon Answer MORE of the Web's Most Searched Questions Eric Nam Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ben Affleck & Lily Rabe Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions ATEEZ Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Seth Rogen Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Owen Wilson Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions David Byrne Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Johnny Knoxville Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Channing Tatum & Sandra Bullock Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Karen Gillan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Leslie Mann & Judd Apatow Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Cole Sprouse Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Nicolas Cage Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions TommyInnit Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Drew Gooden Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Seth MacFarlane Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sadie Sink, Noah Schnapp & Gaten Matarazzo Answer the Web’s Most Searched Questions Taika Waititi Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Maisie Williams Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Jacksepticeye Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Hemsworth Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Guinness World Records Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Russo Brothers Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Keke Palmer Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Marques Brownlee Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Neil Patrick Harris Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Lopez & Leah Remini Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dakota Johnson & Jeff Bridges Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions High School Musical: The Musical: The Series Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Hart & Mark Wahlberg Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Danny DeVito Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lili Reinhart Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John Boyega Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sofía Vergara & Simon Cowell Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Steve-O Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Stray Kids Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Charli & Dixie D'Amelio Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions NCT 127 Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Hasan Minhaj Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Cobra Kai's Ralph Macchio Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Mrwhosetheboss Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chloë Grace Moretz Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Millie Bobby Brown Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jenna Ortega Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Veritasium's Derek Muller Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jason Momoa Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions LaurDIY Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Nigel Ng & Uncle Roger Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Finn Wolfhard & Guillermo del Toro Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ludwig Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John Krasinski & Michael Kelly Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions ITZY Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Danny Gonzalez Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ashton Kutcher Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Paul Rudd & Jonathan Majors Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Outer Banks Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Again Kelly Slater Answers Surfing Questions From Twitter KAROL G Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Penn Badgley Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Pine, Hugh Grant & Michelle Rodriguez Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Willem Dafoe Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions KSI Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bob Odenkirk Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jisoo Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ali Wong & Steven Yeun Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Evans & Ana de Armas Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Airrack Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions ChatGPT Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions James & Sean Gunn Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Mark Hamill Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Shameik Moore, Issa Rae & Hailee Steinfeld Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Segura Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Robert Downey Jr. & Christopher Nolan Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Bear Grylls Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Smosh Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Ice Cube Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Stephen Curry Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions 'Heart of Stone' Cast Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions 'Critical Role' Cast Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Harry Mack Freestyles The Web's Most Searched Questions Olivia Rodrigo Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Pokimane Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions MoistCr1TiKaL Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Dream Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Fanum Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Casey Neistat Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions | WIRED Måneskin Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
