Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Megan Molteni Business Startups Race to Create Cancer Screens from DNA Jamie Jones Save this story Save Save this story Save Silicon Valley is out for blood—and not just the rejuvenating blood of the young.
 Biomedical engineers are enthralled by the promise of liquid biopsies , noninvasive tests that detect and classify cancers by identifying the tiny bits of DNA that tumors shed into the bloodstream. Studies at leading cancer centers have already shown the technology’s effectiveness in personalizing treatments after diagnosis.
 Now startups are selling VCs a vision of cheap, surgery-free cancer screening even before symptoms appear.
Andreessen Horowitz, Google Ventures, Verily, and others have invested $77 million in Freenome , which uses machine learning to pinpoint immune-system responses that may indicate the presence of cancer. Freenome’s most prominent rival, Grail —which plans to harness next­-generation gene sequencing to directly measure cancerous genomic alterations in the blood—raised $1.2 billion last year led by 1 ARCH Venture Partners. Both companies are racing to make the first DNA-detecting blood test to reveal disease in its earliest stages. It’s the holy—well, you know—of cancer care.
If this scientific sprint is giving you Theranos flashbacks, it should. Critics believe that even with the aid of low-cost genetic sequencing and high-powered algorithms , liquid biopsy detection is still years away from being patient-ready. The startups have shared scant data so far. (Grail has begun enrolling 130,000 patients in two huge trials, but it won’t have results for a few years.) Having secured massive infusions of funding, it’s not money holding these blood unicorns back, it’s basic biology.
This article appears in the February issue.
Subscribe now.
1 Correction appended, 1/24/18, 3:30 PM EDT: A previous version of this story misstated the Grail funding round as being from ARCH Venture Partners. It was led by the firm.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg X Topics magazine-26.02 cancer Biology Silicon Valley Khari Johnson Will Knight Steven Levy Will Knight Will Knight Peter Guest Will Knight Will Knight Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
