Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Bear Grylls Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions About Credits Released on 07/24/2023 I'm Bear Grylls and this is a WIRED Autocomplete Interview.
[lively upbeat music] You ready? [lively upbeat music] Who is Bear Grylls' cameraman? The answer is there are a few of them.
An incredible team, our crew, unsung heroes.
They're amazing, work incredibly hard, carry all the heavy gear, do everything I do but backwards whilst filming.
Many of those guys who were there at the beginning still there now.
Brothers, we through so much together.
I love those guys, yeah.
Who did Bear Grylls climb Everest with? We took a small team of four soldiers.
Two of us got to reach the top.
We had four fatalities of other climbers who were with us up there at the time.
The guy I reached the top with was a best friend, served beside me in the British Special Forces.
Another unsung hero in my life called Neil Laughton.
Still best friend to this day, I love that.
What was Bear Grylls childhood like? Kind of fun, I grew up on a little island off the south coast of the UK.
As I say, my dad taught me to climb at a young age.
I love those early adventures with him.
My dad's no longer alive now, but I look back on those times with like real gratitude, really.
You know, he taught me so much of the important stuff which was follow your dreams, look after your friends along the way, have a resilient, never give up spirit, improvise, adapt, overcome, that was from him.
Where is Bear Grylls' festival? Yeah, we have a festival in the UK, it's called Gone Wild.
Super fun, family adventure festival.
Everything from ax throwing, to climbing, to survival stuff, mud runs, to great music, great bands.
We've run it for a few years in the UK now for Veteran Charities.
Gone Wild, look out for it coming to stay soon.
Okay.
How is Bear Grylls still alive? By the grace of God and a great team.
Quite a lot of luck along the way as well, but nowadays we really try and be smart.
You know, we're in the business of keeping people alive especially with Running Wild where we're taking real, iconic, big, old superstars away.
You gotta get it right.
In the wild you only get it wrong once.
There's always risk in the outdoors and in the wild places and you're dealing with rookies and big rivers and big mountains.
How to survive Bear Grylls? Gotta have a plan.
I know it sounds obvious, but so many people go into adventures without a plan of when things go wrong.
What happens if they lose their cell phone or their battery dies or, you know, they're outta water or somebody gets injured.
Be prepare for the specific adventure.
Have the right gear, the right training for when it goes wrong.
'Cause as they say, Adventure only really happens when things go wrong.
So how to survive Bear Grylls? Talk quietly, dig deep when you need to, be resourceful, and never give up.
How many languages does Bear Grylls know? A few and none very well.
I actually study Spanish at university, and four years of studying Spanish taught me that my Spanish is really bad.
I'm not a natural linguist in any way.
I've had to learn sort of basic, I call it survival linguistics.
Which way, you know, North.
And it's got me out of a few scrapes for sure.
How did Bear Grylls understand Modi's Hindi? When I took the Prime Minister of India away, you see him speaking Hindi and me replying in English and then I'm kind of nodding away as he's speaking but I've got simultaneous translation going on in my ear.
But it's always a little bit behind, so it kind of looks a little bit weird, like I'm nodding at weird places and the whole thing is a little weird sink.
It was hard because it was raining so the earpiece was really cracky, so it was like [imitates static] static in the ear.
But we figured it out and he speaks actually pretty good English.
My Hindi is not very good.
How long was Bear Grylls in the military? I spent four years in the military from the age of 19 to 23.
I gotta spend three of my years there with the British Special Forces where I got so much to the survival training as well and made friends that endure to this day.
Is Bear Grylls' Running Wild real? It is a baby of mine that, you know, Running Wild and I think the testament to it is always the sort of stars we attract and the people who want to come on the adventures.
Is it real? It is real and I think that's a heart of all adventure.
Can Bear Grylls be trusted? I hope so.
You know, I've made mistakes in my life for sure.
Done bad things in my life for sure, but I hope I'm trustworthy, I tried to be trustworthy.
Will Ferrell Bear Grylls episode.
Will Ferrell was the first adventure show I did with someone else.
It was the first one where we took big Hollywood star away.
We pushed him really hard, probably too hard.
Still to this day, if I see Will, he goes, Oh my god, that journey, that was a ballbuster.
You know, Will on that episode was incredible actually.
You know, we were right at tip end of the arctic, tough conditions, he was in at the deep end in every way.
He never gave up, kept smiling most of the time.
And I think if we'd kept Running Wild at that intensity, we'd never have had a season two.
So we learned, keep them short, keep them fast, keep them a million miles an hour but made them achievable.
You know, we're not there to break anyone, we're there to build people.
And that's definitely become the DNA of the show over the years.
What has Bear Grylls achieved? What have I achieved? Good family, three great boys.
Still married to the girl I met when I was 22.
Good friends, still smiling, still going, still doing what I love.
I never take that for granted.
What island is Bear Grylls filmed on? We live on a little island off the Welsh coast in the UK and we've owned it for years now, our boys have been brought up there, off grid about two miles offshore, one little house, wild place.
To get on and off the island, we have a little rigid inflatable boat, offshore craft that we just bomb back and forth to the mainland in.
Getting supplies is always a bit of a mission but also kind of fun.
What does Bear Grylls eat at home? Sorry to disappoint, it's not all tarantula, scorpion, snakes, and rat brain.
A lot of red meat, a lot of liver, a lot of eggs, a lot of fruit, a lot of honey.
Try and stay away from the junk stuff as much as we can, the processed food.
Eat like our ancestors, throw in a little bit of wilderness food every now and again just to keep everyone on their toes.
What has Bear Grylls eaten? Had a good breakfast.
Lot of Greek yogurt and honey, some fruit, coffee, bit of juice, ready to go.
What accent does Bear Grylls have? I don't know, I get British, I guess.
Sometimes people go, Are you Australian? Obviously that takes a great compliment because we love Australia, even though we do beat them often in the rugby.
So yeah.
Where did Bear Grylls get his name? And I was christened Edward.
My sister then said that was such a boring name.
She called me Teddy, Teddy Bear.
I dunno, as a kid I didn't really like it, I always wanted a normal name.
But actually I look back now and it could have been way worse.
Where has Bear Grylls traveled to? An occupational hazard of my job is that we do travel a lot, done a lot in Wyoming for Running Wild, Scotland for a couple of trips, some jungles, Costa Rica, Central America, some mountains in the Alps in Europe, Holm in Wales, little island in the UK.
Good places.
When did Bear Grylls meet President Zelensky? Yeah, a few months ago, I got to travel to Ukraine to spend time with him, walk around the city a little bit, hear a little bit about his background, his life growing up for a show called War Zone.
Real privilege for me to do.
That was a special one.
When did Bear Grylls start his career? I dunno, I never really kind of think of it as a career.
I suppose the answer is I started a life of adventure when I was a kid with my dad, former marine, climber.
Taught me a lot of this stuff when I was a young boy.
But in terms of TV stuff, I suppose started at age about 26.
Somebody approached me from Discovery Channel and said, Could we do a show where we drop you in difficult places? You show us how to get out of there.
A privilege.
So that's that one.
Bear Grylls bee sting.
I was stung by a bunch of African bees once, trying to get some honey out of a nest.
And I think the lesson is, in the wilds it's not always the big things that are gonna get you, it's often the little stuff.
Mosquitoes, some angry bees.
My face ballooned up.
My family said, Actually, Bear, that's an improvement.
Bear Grylls jellyfish sting.
I think this is probably about a Running Wild episode with Mel B from the Spice Girls and I got stung by jellyfish and she ended up peeing on my hand.
I think actually, I've learned over the years, the advice actually is tenuous.
I'm not sure pee actually does very much apart from sterilize it a little bit and she was adamant it was gonna work.
Bear Grylls healthy? Feel pretty good, feel fit and strong.
We have a great outdoor fitness company.
It's veteran run called Be Military Fit.
So I train with that community most days.
Just short and sharp, half an hour.
I consider it as part of my job, I've gotta try and be strong and as healthy as I can.
Work in progress always.
Why is Bear Grylls, oh dear, here we go.
Oh, that's nice, inspirational.
Learnt in life, you can only try and live from this, and try and follow this, and try and speak from this.
Share the struggles, share the doubts, the failures as much as the successes and the wins in life, know the value of great friends, try and keep the rest of it simple.
[upbeat music] That is all the boards.
Thank you for lovely questions.
And for all of you guys watching, keep going, respect for all your adventures.
Courage, kindness, never give up.
We got it, team.
[upbeat music] Starring: Bear Grylls Melissa McCarthy & Kristen Bell Answer The Web’s Most Searched Questions NASA Astronauts Answer The Web’s Most Searched Questions Common Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Ice Cube Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Eve Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Seth Rogen & Rose Byrne Answer The Web’s Most Searched Questions The Cast of Warcraft Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Slow Mo Guys, MatPat, AsapSCIENCE, and Burnie Burns Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dana Carvey Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Mr. Robot's Carly Chaikin Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Cara Delevingne Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Chelsea Handler Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Blindspot's Jaimie Alexander Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Aniston & Jason Bateman Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kate McKinnon & Vanessa Bayer Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Cast of "Rogue One" Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tracy Morgan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions The Cast of 'Sesame Street' Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Samuel L. Jackson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Lawrence & Chris Pratt Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Reggie Watts Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ryan Reynolds & Jake Gyllenhaal Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Evans Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Morgan Freeman, Michael Caine, and Alan Arkin Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Anne Hathaway & Jason Sudeikis Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Salma Hayek & Eugenio Derbez Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Amy Schumer & Goldie Hawn Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Steve Carell & Kristen Wiig Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Will Ferrell & Amy Poehler Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Al Gore Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions on Climate Change Matthew McConaughey & Idris Elba Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dave Franco, Kumail Nanjiani and Fred Armisen Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Cruise & Doug Liman Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Josh Brolin & Taylor Kitsch Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Matt Damon & Julianne Moore Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Nick Jonas Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Gaten Matarazzo and Joe Keery Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Last Jedi Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions John Cena Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Owen Wilson & Ed Helms Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Will Smith & Joel Edgerton Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Black Panther Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Google Search Team Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bruce Willis Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charlize Theron & David Oyelowo Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions This Is Us Cast Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Alicia Vikander Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Garner Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charlie Day Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jeff Goldblum Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Taraji P. Henson & Tyler Perry Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions John Krasinski Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ansel Elgort & Suki Waterhouse Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Terry Crews Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Shawn Mendes Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Solo Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jodie Foster Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Best of Autocomplete: The Cast of Black Panther, Stranger Things and More Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Robert Pattinson & Mia Wasikowska Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Alison Brie & Marc Maron Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions 'Sorry to Bother You' Cast Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions 'Ant-Man and the Wasp' Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Will Arnett Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Mila Kunis & Justin Theroux Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ewan McGregor & Hayley Atwell Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Liza Koshy Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions 'Dog Days' Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ken Jeong Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Mark Wahlberg, Ronda Rousey and Lauren Cohan Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions John Cho Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Rami Malek & Charlie Hunnam Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Anna Kendrick & Blake Lively Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Paul McCartney Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Keegan-Michael Key & Olivia Munn Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Elizabeth Olsen Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Hart & Tiffany Haddish Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Rhett & Link Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Riverdale Cast Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bella Thorne Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John Mulaney & Nick Kroll Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Aubrey Plaza & Craig Robinson Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Try Guys Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Keira Knightley & Mackenzie Foy Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Julia Roberts & Dermot Mulroney Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Emily Ratajkowski & Aaron Paul Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Sarah Silverman & John C. Reilly Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Margot Robbie & Saoirse Ronan Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Natalie Portman & Jude Law Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Lin-Manuel Miranda Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Best WIRED Autocomplete Moments of 2018 Feat. Liza Koshy, David Dobrik, The Try Guys & More Ninja Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zedd Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bryce Dallas Howard Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions James McAvoy & Sarah Paulson Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jane Fonda & Lily Tomlin Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Daniel Radcliffe Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Priyanka Chopra, Rebel Wilson & Adam Devine Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions David Dobrik Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Brie Larson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Freddie Highmore Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Oscar Isaac & Pedro Pascal Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Markiplier Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Colin Farrell & Danny DeVito Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Queer Eye Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Nikolaj Coster-Waldau Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Gina Rodriguez Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sean Bean Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Anthony Mackie Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lily Collins & Nicholas Hoult Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Wu-Tang Clan Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Wanda Sykes Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charles Melton Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jessica Alba & Gabrielle Union Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jon Hamm & David Tennant Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Thomas Middleditch & O'Shea Jackson Jr. Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Sophie Turner & Jessica Chastain Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Mindy Kaling & Emma Thompson Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Smosh Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Holland, Zendaya & Jacob Batalon Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Millie Bobby Brown, Finn Wolfhard & Noah Schnapp Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Winona Ryder & David Harbour Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Eric Andre Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Machine Gun Kelly Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Charlie Puth Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Novak Djokovic Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Anderson Cooper Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jim Gaffigan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Liam Payne Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lilly Singh Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Gwen Stefani Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Dove Cameron Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Smith Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Niall Horan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lele Pons Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Hailee Steinfeld Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Louis Tomlinson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kiernan Shipka & Isabela Merced Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kristen Stewart, Naomi Scott, and Ella Balinska Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jack Black & Awkwafina Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions KJ Apa Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions The Best of Autocomplete 2019: Funniest Moments from Stranger Things, Spider-Man and More Billy Eichner & Cobie Smulders Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Frozen 2 Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jada Pinkett Smith Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zach Galifianakis & Zoe Saldana Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Elijah Wood Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Noah Centineo & Lana Condor Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Lucy Hale Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Patrick Stewart Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Norman Reedus Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Astronaut Chris Hadfield Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Nick Offerman Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Binging with Babish Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jamie Dornan & Shailene Woodley Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ellie Kemper Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Joe Biden Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ricky Gervais Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Alicia Keys Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tony Hawk Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Russell Crowe Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Bacon Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Joey King & Joel Courtney Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kermit & Miss Piggy Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Alessia Cara Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jamie Foxx & Joseph Gordon-Levitt Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Mayim Bialik Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Desus & Mero Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dolly Parton Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ruby Rose Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sonequa Martin-Green Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chelsea Handler Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John C. Reilly & Tim Heidecker Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Joel McHale Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Questlove Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Dua Lipa Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zara Larsson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bob Odenkirk and RZA Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions SpongeBob's Tom Kenny & Bill Fagerbakke Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Jackson Wang Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Eric Andre Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions...Again LILHUDDY Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Polo G Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Hank Azaria Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Zack Snyder Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions TWICE Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions MONSTA X Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Siri, Alexa and Google Home Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Rich Brian and NIKI Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions B.I Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Never Have I Ever Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions M. Night Shyamalan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Henry Golding Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions BTS Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Emily Blunt & Dwayne Johnson Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Hudson Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Outer Banks Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Rita Ora Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Dove Cameron Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions...Again Daniel Radcliffe Answers MORE of the Web's Most Searched Questions Ben Platt & Amandla Stenberg Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Hardy & Andy Serkis Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions On My Block Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Daniel Craig & Lashana Lynch Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions William Shatner Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Madison Beer Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Marshmello Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Amanda Seyfried & Finn Wittrock Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Nina Dobrev Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kit Harington Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Kristen Bell & Kirby Howell-Baptiste Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dominic Monaghan & Billy Boyd Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Cowboy Bebop Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions YouTube Search Team Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jack Whitehall Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Andrew Garfield Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sabrina Carpenter Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Simu Liu Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Holland, Zendaya & Jacob Batalon Answer MORE of the Web's Most Searched Questions Eric Nam Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ben Affleck & Lily Rabe Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions ATEEZ Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Seth Rogen Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions Owen Wilson Answers The Web’s Most Searched Questions David Byrne Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Johnny Knoxville Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Channing Tatum & Sandra Bullock Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Karen Gillan Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Leslie Mann & Judd Apatow Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Cole Sprouse Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Nicolas Cage Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions TommyInnit Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Drew Gooden Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Seth MacFarlane Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sadie Sink, Noah Schnapp & Gaten Matarazzo Answer the Web’s Most Searched Questions Taika Waititi Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Maisie Williams Answers the Web’s Most Searched Questions Jacksepticeye Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Hemsworth Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Guinness World Records Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions The Russo Brothers Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Keke Palmer Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Marques Brownlee Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Neil Patrick Harris Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jennifer Lopez & Leah Remini Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Dakota Johnson & Jeff Bridges Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions High School Musical: The Musical: The Series Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Kevin Hart & Mark Wahlberg Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Danny DeVito Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Lili Reinhart Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John Boyega Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Sofía Vergara & Simon Cowell Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Steve-O Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Stray Kids Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Charli & Dixie D'Amelio Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions NCT 127 Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Hasan Minhaj Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Cobra Kai's Ralph Macchio Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Mrwhosetheboss Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chloë Grace Moretz Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Millie Bobby Brown Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jenna Ortega Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Veritasium's Derek Muller Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jason Momoa Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions LaurDIY Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Nigel Ng & Uncle Roger Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Finn Wolfhard & Guillermo del Toro Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Ludwig Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions John Krasinski & Michael Kelly Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions ITZY Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Danny Gonzalez Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ashton Kutcher Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Paul Rudd & Jonathan Majors Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Outer Banks Cast Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Again Kelly Slater Answers Surfing Questions From Twitter KAROL G Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Penn Badgley Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Pine, Hugh Grant & Michelle Rodriguez Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Willem Dafoe Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions KSI Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Bob Odenkirk Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Jisoo Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Ali Wong & Steven Yeun Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Chris Evans & Ana de Armas Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Airrack Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions ChatGPT Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions James & Sean Gunn Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Mark Hamill Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions Shameik Moore, Issa Rae & Hailee Steinfeld Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Tom Segura Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Robert Downey Jr. & Christopher Nolan Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Bear Grylls Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Smosh Answer The Web's Most Searched Questions Ice Cube Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Stephen Curry Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions 'Heart of Stone' Cast Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions 'Critical Role' Cast Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Harry Mack Freestyles The Web's Most Searched Questions Olivia Rodrigo Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Pokimane Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions MoistCr1TiKaL Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Dream Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Fanum Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions Casey Neistat Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions | WIRED Måneskin Answer the Web's Most Searched Questions Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
