Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Bruce Sterling Trump's cutting MILITARY science?! Hey that's SERIOUS Save this story Save Save this story Save *Hey man, if you're a scientist that makes bombs, that's supposed to be bulletproof. It's like the Iron Rice-Bowl of Physics.
*Also, not believing in climate science, that's okay sort-of, but not believing in ultra-advanced super-weapons, that's heresy.
Trump Budget Cuts Defense S&T by 5.8% While Funding Third Offset Priorities President Trump’s fiscal year 2018 budget requests a 5.8 cut to Department of Defense S&T accounts below currently enacted levels, but still above the fiscal year 2016 baseline. Funding for late-stage development, prototyping, and demonstration receives a substantial increase in line with DOD’s priorities under its Third Offset Strategy.
While President Trump’s fiscal year 2018 budget request increases defense spending by $54 billion, its funding proposal for the Defense Department’s S&T accounts is 5.8 percent below currently enacted levels. However, the budget request was formulated prior to a 7.8 percent increase in S&T funding enacted in fiscal year 2017 appropriations on May 5. The budget’s S&T proposal is 1.6 percent above the fiscal year 2016 level.
DOD S&T comprises three of the seven defense Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation (RDT&E) accounts: basic research, applied research, and advanced technology development. Under the Trump budget, spending on RDT&E as a whole would increase by about 14 percent, dominated by multi-billion-dollar boosts to late-stage development, prototyping, and demonstration activities. That increase would return those activities closer to the funding levels that prevailed between 2005 and 2010. This emphasis on late-stage work is consistent with DOD’s Third Offset Strategy, which stresses the need for near-term technological agility to maintain superiority in combat over increasingly sophisticated adversaries.
Funding for RDT&E activities, 2000–2015, from a Sept. 2016 presentation by then-Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering Stephen Welby. BA 1=Basic Research, BA 2=Applied Research, BA 3=Advanced Technology Development, BA 4=Advanced Component Development & Prototypes, BA 5=System Development & Demonstration, BA 7=Operational System Development. (Image credit – courtesy of DOD) The chart below summarizes the changes the Trump administration is proposing for DOD’s S&T accounts. More details are available in FYI’s Federal Science Budget Tracker. DOD’s official budget documents can be accessed here.
Proposed S&T funding by military service The Trump administration’s proposed funding adjustments for DOD S&T are unevenly distributed among programs administered by the Army, Navy, and Air Force, and Defense-wide agencies such as the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, as illustrated in the following chart: In recent years, Army S&T has been subject to a tug-of-war between the White House and Congress, with congressional appropriators driving spending upward against the administration’s more modest ambitions. Following suit, the Trump request maintains funding levels that are relatively close to those last requested by the Obama administration but are over 20 percent below those enacted in fiscal year 2017 appropriations.
Similarly, the Trump request would provide funding for Navy S&T programs that is close to the Obama administration’s most recent request but 8.4 percent below the currently enacted level. However, the budget would restore about one third of the 16 percent cut that Congress agreed to impose on basic research spending for fiscal year 2017.
The Air Force S&T budget would be cut back by a comparatively small 3.6 percent versus currently enacted levels. Basic research would receive a disproportionate 7.3 percent decrease to a level slightly above the Obama administration’s most recent request.
Under the Trump request, DOD-wide S&T programs would continue a recent growth trend, with a spending increase of 3.1 percent. The largest percentage increase, 8 percent, would be directed toward applied research. Spending on the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, which draws from all three S&T accounts, would increase to $3.17 billion from the $2.87 billion fiscal year 2016 level, the most recent period for which figures are publicly available.
Third Offset initiatives continue to find support The Trump request’s support for DOD’s Third Offset Strategy is reflected not only in proposed spending increases for late-stage RDT&E activities, but also in its continued support for initiatives that DOD has promoted as elemental to the strategy.
Strategic Capabilities Office (SCO) The SCO’s budget would increase from about $900 million to over $1.2 billion. DOD regards the office, which develops new tactical uses for existing military technologies, as elemental to its ability to remain technologically nimble. The office is directed by William Roper, a physicist and one of DOD’s standard bearers for the Third Offset Strategy.
Defense Innovation Unit Experimental (DIUx) The Trump budget requests $29.6 million for DIUx through the DOD-wide advanced technology development account. In fiscal year 2017 appropriations, Congress provided only $10 million, or one-third of the Obama administration’s request, reflecting some skepticism of DOD’s vision for the unit. DIUx’s objective is to set up contracts with universities and fast-moving, innovation-focused companies that do not traditionally engage with DOD. Although small, DOD has continually promoted the unit as part of its Third Offset efforts. (In addition to its RDT&E funding, DIUx also currently receives about $15 million per year through DOD’s operations and maintenance budget.) Rapid Prototyping Program The fiscal year 2017 appropriations law created a special $100 million account for rapid prototyping activities. The Trump budget requests the same level for fiscal year 2018.
Note on federal R&D funding measures Following tradition, the Trump budget request includes an “Analytical Perspectives” document, which offers quantitative insights into the budget’s design, including government-wide figures for federal R&D funding. According to one measure, the document suggests that federal expenditure on R&D has decreased by 21 percent, and, according to a second, it has increased by 2 percent. Both figures are potentially misleading for reasons that the document explains.
The 21 percent decrease is an artifact of a recategorization beginning in fiscal year 2018 of certain activities previously classified as technology development, but that are now not classified as R&D at all. This change was implemented to bring the White House’s figures into closer alignment with those used in the National Science Foundation’s Science and Engineering Indicators. According to the new definition, DOD operational system development, which the Trump administration proposes to fund at almost $32 billion, no longer counts as R&D so its contribution simply disappears from the record.
Employing the old definition of R&D, the increase in federal R&D spending in the Trump budget is accounted for by the increase in DOD’s operational system development spending alone. However, excluding this account from currently enacted levels and the Trump budget request, the deep cuts the budget request makes to other federal R&D spending significantly outweigh the spending increases proposed for other late-stage defense programs and for R&D in the National Nuclear Security Administration.
Contact the Author William Thomas American Institute of Physics wthomas@aip.org (301) 209-3097 More From FYI NIST Science Down 13% in Trump Budget President Trump’s fiscal year 2018 budget requests a 23 percent cut for the National Institute of Standards and Technology. The proposed cuts fall hardest on NIST’s manufacturing programs, while its primary research account would see a 13 percent decrease.﻿ Read More > Trump Budget Cuts NASA Earth Science, Boosts Planetary Science The Trump administration’s fiscal year 2018 budget proposes to decrease funding for NASA’s Science Mission Directorate by about 1 percent relative to enacted fiscal year 2017 appropriations. Earth Science would see a 9 percent decrease and the cancellation of some missions, while Planetary Science would return almost to the record funding levels it enjoyed in the early 2000s.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg Topics Beyond the Beyond Beyond the Beyond Ramin Skibba Khari Johnson Will Knight Amit Katwala Justin Ling Jaina Grey Andy Greenberg Simon Hill Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
