Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Absolute Best Deals Deals Under $50 Best Buy Flash Sale All-Clad Deals Kindle Deals (and More Amazon Devices) Mattress Deals Laptop Deals Lego Deals TV Deals Apple Deals Espresso Machine Deals Sex Toy Deals Simon Hill Gear How to Spot Fake Reviews on Amazon Photograph: Daniel Grizelj/Getty Images Amazon Prime Day October 2023 Absolute Best Deals Deals Under $50 Best Buy Flash Sale All-Clad Deals Kindle Deals (and More Amazon Devices) Mattress Deals Laptop Deals Lego Deals TV Deals Apple Deals Espresso Machine Deals Sex Toy Deals Save this story Save Save this story Save As the leading online retailer in the US, Amazon sells just about everything. (Like the logo says, from A to Z.) Whether you are shopping online for a cheap portable charger , eco-friendly cleaning supplies , or headphones for your kids , Amazon is likely your first stop. And when it’s time to choose between similar-looking products, most folks rely on user reviews.
The trouble is that many Amazon reviews are fake. Unscrupulous or desperate sellers pay for glowing reviews, and some offer gift cards or free products in exchange for five-star ratings. Occasionally, sellers will even solicit false negative reviews on competing products. It’s tough to identify what’s real with certainty, but you can reduce the risk of being conned when you know the warning signs. We’ve compiled some tips that can help.
Updated June 2023: We've added relevant links, information on Amazon's Vine program, and a section on the use of artificial intelligence.
If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
If you are shopping on Amazon , there is a good chance you’ll see some fake reviews. A recent UK government report suggested that between 11 and 15 percent of consumer electronics reviews on e-commerce platforms are fake.
The majority are positive, extolling the virtues of a product in suspiciously glowing terms. Short five-star reviews are likely intended to game the system by boosting a product’s ranking and visibility. But there are also more subtle attempts to persuade you to buy, where paid reviewers will go into some detail, maybe share photos, and even include a con alongside many pros. They might score a product four out of five stars, for example, which can be very convincing.
Some sellers engage in paid negative reviews designed to criticize competing products. They are typically one-star reviews that focus on cons and will often mention another product that compares favorably to try to steer you toward it.
It’s worth noting that Amazon is not the only ecommerce website with a fake review problem. Walmart, Target, and many others have similar issues (the Federal Trade Commission put more than 700 businesses on notice in 2021 and is considering a rule that would trigger stiff civil penalties for violators ). Most of the tips we discuss here will serve you in general, not just on Amazon.
Sellers want to increase their sales, and reviews can do that.
 The reviewers want to earn cash or free products. That’s why the underground market for fake reviews is thriving. There are overseas companies selling blocks of positive reviews , social media groups that organize teams of reviewers, and companies that offer all kinds of incentives to persuade genuine buyers to leave a favorable review. Sellers also provide refunds or other rewards to convince buyers to remove or edit negative reviews. Reply All’s The Magic Store episode covers some common scenarios and is a fun listen on the topic.
We are not talking about big-ticket items and major brands, where you can easily find legitimate reviews in the media (though counterfeits are a whole other problem ). If we may be so bold, you can find genuine product recommendations and honest reviews here at WIRED.
However, most fake reviews target affordable items from unknown brands that only have reviews on Amazon. While it may not be possible to avoid false reviews, you can reduce their impact on your purchasing decisions.
Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Black Friday Tech Deals Nena Farrell Gear How to Pick the Right MacBook for You Brenda Stolyar Gear These Are the 15 Android Phones Worth Buying Julian Chokkattu Start by confirming the product reviewed. Some listings have multiple products or switch the product listing to a newer version but still have older reviews attached. Your first step is to switch the reviews list from Top reviews to Most recent to find out what the latest buyers are saying.
The overwhelming majority of fake positives are five-star reviews, and false negatives tend to be one-star reviews, so you are more likely to find legitimate reviews in the middle. Canny fake reviewers understand that overselling is a problem and may award four stars rather than the full five, but no one is paying for two- or three-star reviews.
Amazon via Simon Hill Amazon via Simon Hill These red flags may indicate a fake review campaign: A very high percentage of five-star reviews Lack of detail in reviews and vague praise Generic review titles like “Nice product” or simply “Awesome” Mentions of competing products Wording similar to other reviews Poor grammar and spelling mistakes Multiple reviews on specific dates (especially if there are long gaps between them) “Customers also bought” section contains unrelated products Glowing reviews with one small negative that isn’t a deal breaker Explaining away cons Nothing here is a foolproof way to spot fakes because legitimate reviews will sometimes have these elements. But you can always dig deeper.
Find reviews of the product elsewhere.
If you can find them, reputable review websites and YouTube videos can be handy for getting a closer look at a product rather than relying on a few images.
Look up the brand online.
If the company doesn’t have an official website, take that as a warning sign. See if you can find social media pages for the brand, and see what they and their followers are posting. You may find alternative reviews on social media or evidence of incentives for positive reviews.
Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Black Friday Tech Deals Nena Farrell Gear How to Pick the Right MacBook for You Brenda Stolyar Gear These Are the 15 Android Phones Worth Buying Julian Chokkattu If you’re suspicious, click on the reviewer’s name to see their profile.
Look at how many reviews they have written and what other products they bought. Amazon also lists an “Impact” score for reviewers based on people tapping that “Helpful” button under their reviews.
Amazon claims it’s constantly battling the scourge of fake reviews.
 Search “buy Amazon reviews” on Google to see how tough a job that is. The company says it removes suspicious reviews frequently, and sellers who engage in forbidden practices, such as offering gift cards in return for five-star reviews, are sometimes banned.
Aukey, Choetech, Mpow, and the Sunvalley Group (the parent company for RavPower, Taotronics, and Vava), were all famously kicked off Amazon. This raises an interesting point: Just because a product has fake reviews doesn’t mean it’s a bad product. Fake reviews can simply be about trying to gain an edge over rivals or boost visibility. I can personally vouch for some products from Aukey and RAVPower, though my opinion of the companies engaging in these practices is another story.
The Verified Purchase badge lets you know the person writing the review bought the product. However, some groups will refund purchases to enable reviewers to get this badge and leave a fake review. Sellers can also buy “Helpful” votes for fake reviews to boost their visibility. In research for this article, we found review swap schemes, where sellers agree to review each other’s products favorably.
Part of the problem for Amazon is the sheer volume of goods and reviews. As a shopper, your only option is to flag suspected fake reviews for investigation by tapping the Report Abuse link under each review.
Vine via Simon Hill Another part of Amazon's strategy is the Vine Program.
 Amazon handpicks people it identifies as its “most insightful reviewers” and makes them eligible to request free products from thousands of brands in return for honest reviews. Vine reviewers are encouraged to provide unbiased opinions, even if they are negative, so the sellers who participate must be confident in their products. Reviews are clearly labeled as part of the program and tend to be more in-depth, often with photos.
Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Black Friday Tech Deals Nena Farrell Gear How to Pick the Right MacBook for You Brenda Stolyar Gear These Are the 15 Android Phones Worth Buying Julian Chokkattu While many Vine reviewers are honest, and the Vine badge may signal higher trustworthiness than a regular review, the program has come in for some criticism. Vine reviewers get products for free, but they are not supposed to be paid or sell or give away those products (though it's unclear how, or even if, this is policed). Participating vendors must also pay Amazon an enrollment fee for each product. Unscrupulous sellers may still try to circumvent the program by offering extra incentives for positive reviews.
Fraud-detecting artificial intelligence is a relatively new weapon in Amazon's fight against fake reviews.
Amazon recently told the BBC that its AI can investigate suspicious reviews by digging into the reviewer's history, sign-ins, and relationships with other online accounts, including any connected to sellers of the products under review. But AI is a double-edged sword.
As artificial intelligence has muscled into the public consciousness this year with the arrival of easily accessible AI chatbots , it was inevitable that someone would use them to generate fake reviews.
 An AI chatbot may not be able to buy or try a product , but it can help a human reviewer create more convincing copy.
You may not want to conduct an in-depth investigation every time you need to buy a new potato masher or power strip. That’s understandable, and thankfully there are tools that can help you spot fake reviews.
Fakespot offers a Chrome extension or mobile app that analyzes review legitimacy and seller history to weed out fake reviews.
Review Meta allows you to paste a URL to get analysis and an adjusted score that filters out untrustworthy reviews.
The Review Index tries to identify fake reviews and flag them, but it also offers useful review summaries categorized by specific elements of each product.
We can’t verify the accuracy of these tools, and the ratings and analysis they provide still require some interpretation. Amazon insists its fake review problem is not as bad as these tools suggest. Just be aware that any system designed to spot fake reviews will produce false positives. That said, they can help you analyze unfamiliar brands and products.
You can find more useful advice in our guide on how to shop safely on Amazon.
 If you do end up buying something that fails to live up to expectations, please leave an honest review to warn those who come after.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get a 1-year subscription to WIRED for $30 $5.
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
You Might Also Like … 📩 Get the long view on tech with Steven Levy's Plaintext newsletter Watch this guy work, and you’ll finally understand the TikTok era How Telegram became a terrifying weapon in the Israel-Hamas War Inside Elon Musk’s first election crisis —a day after he “freed” the bird The ultra-efficient farm of the future is in the sky The best pickleball paddles for beginners and pros 🌲 Our Gear team has branched out with a new guide to the best sleeping pads and fresh picks for the best coolers and binoculars Contributor X Topics Amazon Shopping eCommerce Retail how-to Amazon Prime Day Deals Louryn Strampe Medea Giordano Reece Rogers Lauren Goode Simon Hill Scott Gilbertson Jaina Grey Nena Farrell WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
