Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Magazine View previous issues MIT News Magazine The Ethics issue Experimental drugs – who should get them? AI and warfare: If a machine tells you when to pull the trigger, who is responsible? Plus, the greatest slide show on Earth, open source at 40, everything you wanted to know about alternative jet fuels, and Eric Schmidt on how AI will transform science.
Letter from the editor View previous issue View next issue Selman Design Features Categorized in Biotechnology and health Who gets to decide who receives experimental medical treatments? For many patients, pushing for access to unproven treatments is their best chance of survival. And that’s worth the risk.
Categorized in Humans and technology The rise of the tech ethics congregation In a world where tech has become a transcendent force, people are always looking for guidance.
Categorized in Policy What happened to the microfinance organization Kiva? A group of strikers argue that the organization seems more focused on making money than creating change. Are they right? Categorized in Artificial intelligence Inside the messy ethics of making war with machines AI is making its way into decision-making in battle. Who’s to blame when something goes wrong? Categorized in Artificial intelligence Andrew Ng: How to be an innovator Tips for aspiring innovators on trying, failing, and the future of AI.
Categorized in Artificial intelligence 2023 Innovator of the Year: As AI models are released into the wild, Sharon Li wants to ensure they’re safe Li’s research could prevent AI models from failing catastrophically when they encounter unfamiliar scenarios.
Also in this issue Tech is broken—can collective action fix it? With Collective Action School, Xiaowei Wang hopes to redefine what it means to work in tech.
Categorized in Profile Next slide, please: A brief history of the corporate presentation From million-dollar slide shows to Steve Jobs’s introduction of the iPhone, a bit of show business never hurt plain old business.
Categorized in Business The future of open source is still very much in flux Free and open software have transformed the tech industry. But we still have a lot to work out to make them healthy, equitable enterprises.
Categorized in Computing Tiny faux organs could crack the mystery of menstruation Researchers are using organoids to unlock one of the human body’s most mysterious—and miraculous—processes.
Categorized in Biotechnology and health How culture drives foul play on the internet, and how new “upcode” can protect us Three new books explore the various scams, frauds, and hacks that plague online life.
Categorized in Computing This startup has engineered a clever way to reuse waste heat from cloud computing Heata is now using these busy servers to heat water for homes.
Categorized in Field notes The beautiful complexity of the US radio spectrum The United States Frequency Allocation Chart shows how the nation’s precious radio frequencies are carefully shared.
Categorized in Computing The ice cores that will let us look 1.5 million years into the past Scientists are drilling deep into the Antarctic ice to better understand the role atmospheric carbon dioxide plays in Earth’s climate cycles.
Categorized in Climate change and energy Why salt marshes could help save Venice Scientists see the sinking city as a laboratory for environmental solutions.
Categorized in Climate change and energy Job titles of the future: Chief heat officer Miami’s public official is the first of her kind.
Categorized in Climate change and energy A cell that does it all For 25 years, embryonic stem cells have been promising and controversial in equal measure. How far have they really come? Categorized in Archive Past issues Updated The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
