Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Cade Metz Business Google Built Its Very Own Chips to Power Its AI Bots Google Save this story Save Save this story Save Google has designed its own computer chip for driving deep neural networks, an AI technology that is reinventing the way Internet services operate.
This morning at Google I/O , the centerpiece of the company's year, CEO Sundar Pichai said that Google has designed an ASIC , or application-specific integrated circuit, that's specific to deep neural nets. These are networks of hardware and software that can learn specific tasks by analyzing vast amounts of data. Google uses neural nets to identify objects and faces in photos, recognize the commands you speak into Android phones, or translate text from one language to another. This technology is even transforming the Google search engine.
Google calls its chip the Tensor Processing Unit, or TPU, because it underpins TensorFlow , the software engine that drives its deep learning services.
This past fall, Google released TensorFlow under an open-source license, which means anyone outside the company can use and modify it. Google has not indicated it will share the designs for the TPU, but outsiders can make use of Google's machine learning hardware and software via various Google cloud services.
Google says it has been running TPUs for about a year, and that they were developed not long before that.
Google is just one of many companies incorporating deep learning into a wide range of Internet services. Facebook, Microsoft, and Twitter are also taking part in this AI-driven transformation. Typically, these Internet giants drive their neural nets with chips called graphics processing units, or GPUs, made by companies like Nvidia. But some, including Microsoft, are also exploring the use of chips called field programmable gate arrays, or FPGAs, which can be programmed for specific tasks.
Google A TPU board fits into the same slot as a hard drive on the massive hardware racks inside the data centers that power Google's online services, the company says, adding that its own chips provide "an order of magnitude better-optimized performance per watt for machine learning" than other hardware options.
"TPU is tailored to machine learning applications, allowing the chip to be more tolerant of reduced computational precision, which means it requires fewer transistors per operation," the company says in a blog post.
 "Because of this, we can squeeze more operations per second into the silicon, use more sophisticated and powerful machine learning models and apply these models more quickly, so users get more intelligent results more rapidly." Google says it has been running TPUs for about a year, and that they were developed not long before that. After testing its first silicon, the company says, it had its chips running live applications inside its data centers in just over three weeks.
Building its own chips means Google isn't using ones from traditional chipmakers---or at least using fewer. That's especially bad news for Intel, whose processors power a vast majority of the computer servers inside Google. The worry for Intel is that, in showing a willingness to build its own chips for deep learning, Google may expand the effort to design its own central processing units, the heart of any computer.
Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Business Why Teslas Totaled in the US Are Mysteriously Reincarnated in Ukraine Aarian Marshall Senior Writer X Topics Enterprise Google Paresh Dave Paresh Dave Gregory Barber Will Knight Niamh Rowe Will Knight Will Knight Vittoria Elliott Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
