Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Will Knight Business This AI Could Go From ‘Art’ to Steering a Self-Driving Car DALL-E generated these images for the prompt “a knight made of spaghetti.” Courtesy of OpenAI Save this story Save Save this story Save Application Prediction Autonomous driving End User Research Sector Consumer services Entertainment Research Source Data Images Text Technology Machine learning Machine vision Natural language processing Robotics You’ve probably never wondered what a knight made of spaghetti would look like, but here’s the answer anyway—courtesy of a clever new artificial intelligence program from OpenAI , a company in San Francisco.
The program, DALL-E , released earlier this month, can concoct images of all sorts of weird things that don't exist, like avocado armchairs, robot giraffes, or radishes wearing tutus. OpenAI generated several images, including the spaghetti knight, at WIRED’s request.
DALL-E is a version of GPT-3 , an AI model trained on text scraped from the web that’s capable of producing surprisingly coherent text. DALL-E was fed images and accompanying descriptions; in response, it can generate a decent mashup image.
Images created by DALL-E in response to “an illustration of a baby daikon radish in a tutu walking a dog.” Courtesy of OpenAI Pranksters were quick to see the funny side of DALL-E, noting for instance that it can imagine new kinds of British food. But DALL-E is built on an important advance in AI-powered computer vision , one that could have serious, and practical, applications.
Called CLIP , it consists of a vast artificial neural network —an algorithm inspired by the way the brain learns—fed hundreds of millions of images and accompanying text captions from the web and trained to predict the correct labels for an image.
Researchers at OpenAI found that CLIP could recognize objects as accurately as algorithms trained in the usual way—using curated data sets where images are neatly matched to labels.
As a result, CLIP can recognize more things, and it can grasp what certain things look like without needing copious examples. CLIP helped DALL-E produce its artwork, automatically selecting the best images from the ones it generated. OpenAI has released a paper describing how CLIP works as well as a small version of the resulting program. It has yet to release a paper or any code for DALL-E.
By Tom Simonite Both DALL-E and CLIP are “super impressive,” says Karthik Narasimhan , an assistant professor at Princeton specializing in computer vision. He says CLIP builds upon previous work that has sought to train large AI models using images and text simultaneously, but does so at an unprecedented scale. “CLIP is a large-scale demonstration of being able to use more natural forms of supervision—the way that we talk about things,” he says.
He says CLIP could be commercially useful in many ways, from improving the image recognition used in web search and video analytics, to making robots or autonomous vehicles smarter. CLIP could be used as the starting point for an algorithm that lets robots learn from images and text, such as instruction manuals, he says. Or it could help a self-driving car recognize pedestrians or trees in an unfamiliar setting.
Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Business Why Teslas Totaled in the US Are Mysteriously Reincarnated in Ukraine Aarian Marshall Vladimir Haltakov , an engineer working on autonomous driving at BMW, has been playing with the smaller version of CLIP for some time. The company has collected images from millions of kilometers of autonomous driving, he says, but it’s sometimes difficult to find a particular image that could help in training. He says the algorithm could help him search through the data using a text prompt. “Being able to describe what you are looking for can be very helpful during development,” he says.
Some AI programmers and hackers have begun experimenting with CLIP using the code released by OpenAI. Justin Pinkney, a deep-learning consultant and the creator of Toonify , an app that uses AI to convert photos of people into cartoon caricatures, calls the program “very impressive” and “extremely versatile.” He says CLIP could prove useful to build a data set of images for a specific task, and he says he wants to see if it can help guide AI systems that generate imagery. “It's pretty astonishing that it seems to have learned things like what celebrities look like, what characterizes different styles of painting and artists,” he says.
DALL-E’s answer to “a photo of food of the United Kingdom.” Courtesy of OpenAI Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Business Why Teslas Totaled in the US Are Mysteriously Reincarnated in Ukraine Aarian Marshall Travis Hoppe, a scientist interested in the intersection of AI and art, used CLIP to build a tool that finds images to accompany a piece of poetry using the image site Unsplash. He says he wishes OpenAI would also release code for DALL-E, but he adds, “I have a feeling they won't.” Ilya Sutskever, chief scientist at OpenAI, says there may be commercial applications, but the company is currently focused on research. OpenAI has not decided whether it will release the full version of either program.
Andrei Barbu , a research scientist at MIT’s Center for Brains, Minds, and Machines who studies computer vision and AI, thinks CLIP may prove useful in commercial settings. He says it would be especially useful for cases where it is impractical to create lots of labeled images for training.
Barbu is also frustrated that OpenAI has not yet released the full version of CLIP, or any of the code for DALL-E—continuing a trend among some of the more prominent commercial AI labs. “It's a little awkward from the point of view of researchers,” Barbu says. “A lot of these amazing things come out, but none of us can actually do anything with them, none of us can build anything on top of them, nor can we even reproduce them.” 📩 Want the latest on tech, science, and more? Sign up for our newsletters ! Your body, your self, your surgeon, his Instagram My quest to survive quarantine— in heated clothes How law enforcement gets around your phone's encryption AI-powered text from this program could fool the government The ongoing collapse of the world's aquifers 🎮 WIRED Games: Get the latest tips, reviews, and more 🏃🏽‍♀️ Want the best tools to get healthy? Check out our Gear team’s picks for the best fitness trackers , running gear (including shoes and socks ), and best headphones Senior Writer X Topics artificial intelligence machine learning neural networks OpenAI computer vision Will Knight Reece Rogers Steven Levy Will Knight Will Knight Steven Levy Reece Rogers Reece Rogers Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
