Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter David Pierce Gear Google Lens Turns Your Camera Into a Search Box Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Google is remaking itself as an AI company, a virtual assistant company, a classroom-tools company, a VR company, and a gadget maker, but it's still primarily a search company. And today at Google I/O, its annual gathering of developers, CEO Sundar Pichai announced a new product called Google Lens that amounts to an entirely new way of searching the internet: through your camera.
The Slickest Things Google Debuted Today at Its Big Event Google Assistant Comes to Your iPhone to Take on Siri Google Just Made Email a Heckuva Lot Easier to Deal With Lens is essentially image search in reverse: you take a picture, Google figures out what's in it. This AI-powered computer vision has been around for some time, but Lens takes it much further. If you take a photo of a restaurant, Lens can do more than just say "it's a restaurant," which you know, or "it's called Golden Corral," which you also know. It can automatically find you the hours, or call up the menu, or see if there's a table open tonight. If you take a picture of a flower, rather than getting unneeded confirmation of its flower-ness, you'll learn that it's an Elatior Begonia, and that it really needs indirect, bright light to survive. It's a full-fledged search engine, starting with your camera instead of a text box.
The first home for Lens will be Google Photos, so it can go back through your existing library and find all sorts of new data. It's also coming to Google Assistant, which is where you'll primarily interact with new photos and searches. Over time, it'll come to all Google products. Remember a couple of years ago, when Google launched Word Lens, which let you hold up your camera to a sign in a foreign language, and like magic it was translated on your screen? Or Google Goggles, which you could use to get more information about whatever painting, landmark, or barcoded product you were looking at? Sounds like those were both precursors to Lens---and now, rather than a standalone app, it's available across Google products.
Lens is, in a way, a Google-y version of Snapchat's and Instagram's AR features: a way to understand more about the world just by looking at it. Of course, rather than place sharks next to your breakfast cereal, Google would rather show you nutrition facts. Or a blog post about the shocking truth behind the raisins. It's most similar to what Pinterest announced earlier this year, a feature also named Lens. Pinterest hopes you'll snap a photo of your outfit, or a package of broccoli, so that it can spit back shopping recommendations or killer new recipe ideas.
Google can do that too, and much more besides. The company's gotten very good at computer vision over the last couple of years, and once it's solved the "what's in the photo" part of the equation, well, it's Google. It's pretty good at search. At a more abstract level, Lens is a big turn for Google. Like so many other companies, it has figured out that the camera is the input of the future. It'll make searching the internet as fast, and natural, as looking around. It fuses the real and digital worlds in fun and useful ways. And, not to get ahead of ourselves here, it'd be a pretty great augmented-reality feature for Google Glass 2.0.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Gear The Best Black Friday Tech Deals Nena Farrell Senior Staff Writer Facebook X Tumblr Instagram Topics cameras Google Search Reece Rogers Scott Gilbertson Scott Gilbertson Boone Ashworth Carlton Reid Virginia Heffernan Matt Jancer Nena Farrell WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Best Buy coupon: Score $300 off select laptops VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
