Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Korean Phrases You Missed in 'Squid Game' About Released on 10/29/2021 [Narrator] Korean speakers watching the Netflix series Squid Game were quick to point out that the English translations didn't always match up to the dialogue.
Wired reached out to Korean language professor Joowon Suh, to see what English speakers might be missing out on.
This part, the translation is definitely sanitized.
Two main differences I noticed in translations are address terms [Ali speaks in Korean] and the swearing expressions.
[Mi-nyeo speaks in Korean] [Narrator] Today we're gonna be talking about English subtitles.
Not the dumb version.
Do you know where your son happens to be now? On business in the United States.
[Narrator] That's a whole nother video.
So let's start with the address terms.
[Mi-nyeo speaks in Korean] [Deok-su speaks in Korean] [Ali speaks in Korean] [Gi-hun speaks in Korean] [Mi-nyeo speaks in Korean] [Narrator] Pay attention to the translated word sir in this scene in episode two, between Ali, the Pakistani immigrant and Sang-woo, the stockbroker.
[Sang-woo speaks in Korean] The meaning of Sajangnim is the president of company or CEO of the company.
The meaning itself is extended to many different situations, so anybody who looks like in a suit and then a little bit older, and then everybody starts calling that person Sajangnim.
[Ali speaks in Korean] Ali is using that Sajangnim and calling a lot of male characters that in the show.
[Narrator] Korean speakers use honorifics constantly when speaking to each other.
You can hear it here, [Ali speaks in Korean] here, [Gi-hun speaks in Korean] and here.
[Gi-hun speaks in Korean] It would be impossible to translate all of these in Squid Game because they're so ubiquitous, but the way the characters address each other shows the evolution of the relationship.
Listen carefully when Sang-woo asks Ali to call him by his first name.
[Sang-woo speaks in Korean] he's actually using this term.
[Sang-woo speaks in Korean] Sang-woo asks Ali to call him Hyung, then he's using intimate ending.
In the Korean language, we don't call each other by our first names.
We are not really first name based society.
Hyung refers to older brother, elder brother of a man.
That Hyung word as a big brother is extended to other social relationships.
So then it means that we are close.
Before, we didn't know each other well, but now we know each other and we are getting closer.
That's why that marble scene, it was really heartbreaking when Ali keeps calling [she speaks in Korean] [Ali speaks in Korean] So basically he thinks that Sang-woo is almost like a brother to him, that he was betrayed.
[somber music] [Ali speaks in Korean] In that sense, it's more heartbreaking if you know what Hyung and Sajangnim mean in the Korean language.
[Narrator] Another example of an honorific-sharing relationship is Han Mi-nyeo's use of Oppa.
[Mi-nyeo speaks in Korean] [Deok-su speaks in Korean] [Mi-nyeo speaks in Korean] [Mi-nyeo speaks in Korean] I don't think babe is a accurate translation for Oppa.
Oppa means older brother to a woman.
Oppa is definitely a family term, a family relationship term but at the same time, it's extended to a romantic relationship between a man and a woman.
So when you start between man and a woman, a woman starts calling the other man Oppa, that means that it's like, okay, we are getting closer as a woman and a man.
Han Mi-nyeo character was trying to do that with the Jang Deok-su character.
[Mi-neyo speaks in Korean] [Deok-su speaks in Korean] [Narrator] Because Oppa implies that the woman is younger than the man, when Deok-su says, Is that right? [Deok-su speaks in Korean] he's actually saying he's not older than her.
It's not like, I'm not a man or you are not a woman, it's more like you look older than I am.
There's a switch to age difference and she asks him, How old do you think I am? and then he's saying 49 and 39, 29 and he was playing with that age thing.
Address terms are extremely difficult when you have to translate the Korean into English.
[Narrator] Next up, let's talk about swearing.
In some translations, Korean cursing words are translated into scumbag, jerk and idiot.
They don't really convey the harshness of the Korean cursing words, cursing expressions.
[Deok-su speaks in Korean] [Gi-hun speaks in Korean] [119 speaks in Korean] The word sae-kki is translated into jerk most of the time but I don't think it's the right translation.
Sae-kki literally means the baby animal, like a baby of any animals.
If you do that, you are basically cursing at your mother.
[Deok-su speaks in Korean] So that's the whole idea, but I think it's a little bit more serious than jerk.
[Deok-su speaks in Korean] [Narrator] One of the difficulties of translation is conveying meaning quickly because subtitles are rarely over two lines.
But what's lost in translation when a swear word is translated to a PG term? It's not just about swearing words and some expressions are very vulgar and that also kind of stands out to me.
[Narrator] Let's take a look at the character Han Mi-nyeo.
[Mi-nyeo speaks in Korean] This part, the translation is definitely sanitized.
[Mi-nyeo speaks in Korean] That's definitely not scumbag.
Shibalnom is like- okay, I just said it.
Oh my gosh, on camera.
Okay. It's like F word.
It's, I would say [beep] bastard.
That kind of thing.
No one even says scumbag anymore.
An interesting thing is, her background was really not explained in the show.
I think the cursing and using all this low-class expressions, the way she's expressing that I gotta go to the bathroom.
in a very vulgar way, it's not cursing word but the way she describes her state was just really very bad.
Linguistically it's kind of interesting to see her background through her use of language.
[Narrator] Translation is an incredibly difficult job and the success of Squid Game shows how well the show did overall.
Overall, it's pretty accurate in terms of conveying the storyline.
I could ask a little bit more in subtlety and a little bit like nuance.
If you don't know the language and you have to depend on the subtitles, of course you miss a lot of things.
It's not because it's the Korean language and English translation, it's any kind of language and translation.
[Narrator] Netflix international language series continue to gain in popularity.
Squid Game's success likely means we're gonna see more and more translations.
So what can audiences take away from discussing the nuances of the original Korean? English is the lingua franca so everybody speaks English.
Even if you go to France, then you can travel speaking English.
Sometimes the English speaking people think that the other languages are not as a sophisticated because you don't know, and you don't speak that language.
Through subtitled shows, you can say, okay, the other language I don't know, but it has a lot of cultural nuances and are richer in its own way.
How the Disco Clam Uses Light to Fight Super-Strong Predators Architect Explains How Homes Could be 3D Printed on Mars and Earth Scientist Explains How Rare Genetics Allow Some to Sleep Only 4 Hours a Night Scientist Explains Unsinkable Metal That Could Prevent Disasters at Sea Is Invisibility Possible? An Inventor and a Physicist Explain Scientist Explains Why Her Lab Taught Rats to Drive Tiny Cars Mycologist Explains How a Slime Mold Can Solve Mazes How the Two-Hour Marathon Limit Was Broken Research Suggests Cats Like Their Owners as Much as Dogs Researcher Explains Deepfake Videos Scientist Explains How to Study the Metabolism of Ultra High Flying Geese Hurricane Hunter Explains How They Track and Predict Hurricanes Scientist Explains Viral Fish Cannon Video A Biohacker Explains Why He Turned His Leg Into a Hotspot Scientist Explains What Water Pooling in Kilauea's Volcanic Crater Means Bill Nye Explains the Science Behind Solar Sailing Vision Scientist Explains Why These Praying Mantises Are Wearing 3D Glasses Why Some Cities Are Banning Facial Recognition Technology Scientist's Map Explains Climate Change Scientist Explains How Moon Mining Would Work Scientist Explains How She Captured Rare Footage of a Giant Squid Doctor Explains How Sunscreen Affects Your Body Stranger Things is Getting a New Mall! But Today Malls Are Dying. What Happened? The Limits of Human Endurance Might Be Our Guts Meet the First College Students to Launch a Rocket Into Space Scientist Explains Why Dogs Can Smell Better Than Robots A Harvard Professor Explains What the Avengers Can Teach Us About Philosophy NASA Twin Study: How Space Changes Our Bodies What the Black Hole Picture Means for Researchers Scientist Explains How to Levitate Objects With Sound Why Scientists and Artists Want The Blackest Substances on Earth Biologist Explains How Drones Catching Whale "Snot" Helps Research Researcher Explains Why Humans Can't Spot Real-Life Deepfake Masks Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About The Coronavirus VFX Artist Breaks Down This Year's Best Visual Effects Nominees How Doctors on Earth Treated a Blood Clot in Space Scientist Explains Why Some Cats Eat Human Corpses Voting Expert Explains How Voting Technology Will Impact the 2020 Election Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About Pandemics ER Doctor Explains How They're Handling Covid-19 Why This Taste Map Is Wrong Q&A: What's Next for the Coronavirus Pandemic? Why Captive Tigers Can’t Be Reintroduced to the Wild How Covid-19 Immunity Compares to Other Diseases 5 Mistakes to Avoid as We Try to Stop Covid-19 How This Emergency Ventilator Could Keep Covid-19 Patients Alive Why NASA Made a Helicopter for Mars Theoretical Physicist Breaks Down the Marvel Multiverse Former NASA Astronaut Explains Jeff Bezos's Space Flight Physics Student Breaks Down Gymnastics Physics What Do Cities Look Like Under a Microscope? Inside the Largest Bitcoin Mine in The U.S.
How Caffeine Has Fueled History How Mushroom Time-Lapses Are Filmed Why You’ll Fail the Milk Crate Challenge Why Vegan Cheese Doesn't Melt How 250 Cameras Filmed Neill Blomkamp's Demonic How Meme Detectives Stop NFT Fraud How Disney Designed a Robotic Spider-Man How Online Conspiracy Groups Compare to Cults Dune Costume Designers Break Down Dune’s Stillsuits Korean Phrases You Missed in 'Squid Game' Why Scientists Are Stress Testing Tardigrades Every Prototype that Led to a Realistic Prosthetic Arm Why the Toilet Needs an Upgrade How Animals Are Evolving Because of Climate Change How Stop-Motion Movies Are Animated at Aardman Astronomer Explains How NASA Detects Asteroids Are We Living In A Simulation? Inside the Journey of a Shipping Container (And Why the Supply Chain Is So Backed Up) The Science of Slow Aging How Nose Swabs Detect New Covid-19 Strains Samsung S22 Ultra Explained in 3 Minutes The Science Behind Elon Musk’s Neuralink Brain Chip Every Prototype to Make a Humanoid Robot Chemist Breaks Down How At-Home Covid Tests Work A Timeline of Russian Cyberattacks on Ukraine VFX Artist Breaks Down Oscar-Nominated CGI Why Smartphone Night Photos Are So Good Now We Invented the Perfect WIRED Autocomplete Glue How Everything Everywhere All at Once's Visual Effects Were Made How Dogs Coevolved with Humans How an Architect Redesigns NYC Streets Viking Expert Breaks Down The Northman Weapons J. Kenji López-Alt Breaks Down the Science of Stir-Fry How A.I. Is Changing Hollywood How Trash Goes From Garbage Cans to Landfills Veterinarian Explains How to Prevent Pet Separation Anxiety The Science Behind Genetically Modified Mosquitoes How Scientists & Filmmakers Brought Prehistoric Planet's Dinosaurs to Life All the Ways Google Gets Street View Images How Public Cameras Recognize and Track You How the Nuro Robotic Delivery Car Was Built Biologist Explains the Unexpected Origins of Feathers in Fashion Surgeons Break Down Separating Conjoined Twins Former Air Force Pilot Breaks Down UFO Footage Bug Expert Explains Why Cicadas Are So Loud The Best of CES 2021 Health Expert Explains What You Need to Know About Quarantines Scientist Explains How People Might Hibernate Like Bears Could a Chernobyl Level Nuclear Disaster Happen in the US? Neuroscientist Explains ASMR's Effects on the Brain & The Body Why Top Scientists Are Pretending an Asteroid is Headed for Earth Epidemiologist Answers Common Monkeypox Questions Bill Nye Breaks Down Webb Telescope Space Images How This Humanoid Robot Diver Was Designed Every Trick a Pro GeoGuessr Player Uses to Win How NASA Biologists Plan to Grow Plants on the Moon How FIFA Graphics & Gameplay Are Evolving (1993 - 2023) How a Vet Performs Dangerous Surgeries on Wild Animals This Heart is Not Human How Entomologists Use Insects to Solve Crimes Former NASA Astronaut Breaks Down a Rocket Launch Chess Pro Explains How to Spot Cheaters Why Billionaires Are Actually Ruining the Economy How to Keep Your New Year’s Resolutions for More Than a Week The Biology Behind The Last of Us English Teacher Grades Homework By ChatGPT All the Ways a Cold Plunge Affects the Body Spy Historian Debunks Chinese Spy Balloon Theories A.I. Tries 20 Jobs | WIRED Mathematician Breaks Down the Best Ways to Win the Lottery Why Music Festivals Sound Better Than Ever Pro Interpreters vs. AI Challenge: Who Translates Faster and Better? Why The Average Human Couldn't Drive An F1 Car Atomic Expert Explains "Oppenheimer" Bomb Scenes Every 'Useless' Body Part Explained From Head to Toe How Pilots and Scientists Are Thinking About the Future of Air Travel How To Max Out At Every Fantasy Football Position (Ft. Matthew Berry) All The Ways Mt. Everest Can Kill You How Fat Bears Bulk Up To Hibernate (And Why We Love To See It) Why Vintage Tech Is So Valuable To Collectors 8 Photos That Tell The History of Humans In Space How Every Organ in Your Body Ages From Head to Toe Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
