Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Tom Simonite Business Google’s AI Eye Doctor Gets Ready to Go to Work in India Lily Peng speaks with WIRED's Sarah Fallon.
Cole Wilson for WIRED Save this story Save Save this story Save Google is poised to begin a grand experiment in using machine learning to widen access to healthcare. If it is successful, it could see the company help protect millions of people with diabetes from an eye disease that leads to blindness.
Last year researchers at the search and ads company announced that they had trained image recognition algorithms to detect signs of diabetes-related eye disease roughly as well as human experts. The software examines photos of a patient’s retina to spot tiny aneurisms indicating the early stages of a condition called diabetic retinopathy, which causes blindness if untreated.
At the 2017 WIRED Business Conference in New York City today, a leader of Google’s project said that work has begun on integrating the technology into a chain of eye hospitals in India. The country is one of the many places around the world where a lack of ophthalmologists means many diabetics don’t get the recommended annual screening for diabetic retinopathy, said Lily Peng, a product manager with the Google Brain AI research group.
Lily Peng speaks with WIRED's Sarah Fallon.
“This kind of blindness is completely preventable, but because people can’t get screened, half suffer vision loss before they’re detected,” she said, describing the current situation in India. “One of the promises of this technology is being able to make healthcare more accessible.” There are more than 400 million people worldwide with diabetes, including 70 million in India.
Peng, who is an MD, was featured on WIRED’s Next List of 20 tech visionaries creating the future earlier this year.
In India, Google is working with the Aravind Eye Care System, a network of eye hospitals established in the late 1970s and credited with helping reduce the incidence of blindness caused by cataracts in the country. Aravind helped Google develop its retinal screening system by contributing some of the images needed to train its image parsing algorithms. The system uses the same deep learning technique that allows Google’s image search and photo storage service do things like differentiate between dogs, cats, and people.
Google’s paper last year just described the accuracy of that technology when applied to retinal images, not its use in the clinic. Peng said today that Google has just finished a clinical study in India—meaning the technology was used in real patient care—with Aravind. Work is now under way on getting the technology into routine use with patients, she said.
Peng dismissed suggestions that while this technology might be good for patients, it could mean fewer jobs for doctors. She said Google’s algorithms would instead do screening work not being done today due to skills shortages while freeing physicians for more important tasks. “There’s not enough expertise to go, we need to have our specialists working on treating people who are sick,” said Peng.
Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Business Why Teslas Totaled in the US Are Mysteriously Reincarnated in Ukraine Aarian Marshall Senior Editor X Will Knight Khari Johnson Will Knight Steven Levy Khari Johnson Will Knight Paresh Dave Deidre Olsen Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
