Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Robbie Gonzalez Science The Potential Pitfalls of Sucking Carbon From the Atmosphere Carbon Engineering Save this story Save Save this story Save Last week, Canadian company Carbon Engineering published research findings that show how carbon dioxide could be sucked up from the atmosphere for less than $100 per ton. In 2017, the world emitted some 32.5 gigatons of the stuff. But hey—baby steps.
Scientists have long speculated that so-called " negative emissions " technologies like CO 2 removal could not only slow the accumulation of carbon in the air, but even reverse it. Before last week, though, all that speculation was, well, largely speculative; nobody had convincingly demonstrated how to pull off negative emissions at scale. Previous estimates had pegged the cost of sucking carbon from the skies, for instance, at $600 per ton—way too pricey to qualify as a viable cleanup solution. The findings from Carbon Engineering, which appear in the latest issue of the journal Joule , point the way toward a future in which negative emissions are not only technically possible but financially feasible.
So yeah—it's big, significant, encouraging news. But it's not all blue skies and rainbows.
Carbon removal technologies, promising though they may be, are overhyped, says David Keith, an applied physicist at Harvard and Carbon Engineering's founder. "And the overhyping has become a political trick." That hype, he says, makes it easier for policymakers to avoid drafting near-term mitigation strategies and exceed their carbon budgets, in hopes that their debt will be repaid at some point in the future. What begets this trickery? Computer simulations.
When the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change modeled more than a thousand scenarios in search of ways to limit a rise in global temperatures, the most propitious projections relied heavily on the assumption that CO 2 removal would one day swoop in and save our collective asses: Of the 116 IPCC scenarios found to limit warming to below 2° Celsius, 101 relied on negative emissions.
 "It enables policymakers to claim that we're very close to keeping global temperatures below a 1.5 or 2 degree increase, while sweeping under the rug the hard work that remains to be done researching carbon dioxide removal," Keith says.
Carbon Engineering’s direct air capture equipment pulls carbon from the air at a test plant in Squamish, British Columbia.
Carbon Engineering Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Black Friday Tech Deals Nena Farrell Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker Many people share his concerns. As a collection of climate researchers noted in a 2014 commentary published in the journal Nature : Negative emissions' "credibility as a climate change mitigation option is unproven and its widespread deployment in climate stabilization scenarios might become a dangerous distraction." An essay by climate researchers Kevin Anderson and Glen Peters, published in Science in 2016, leveled even harsher criticism: "Negative-emission technologies are not an insurance policy, but rather an unjust and high-stakes gamble," they wrote. "The mitigation agenda should proceed on the premise that they will not work at scale. The implications of failing to do otherwise are a moral hazard par excellence." Granted, the argument could be made that negative emissions technologies ceased to be a moral hazard when they became a necessary condition. Carbon Engineering’s latest data was published in a world in which atmospheric CO 2 levels are higher than at any point in human history, and rising. The company's method proposes to attenuate that rise by combining the carbon dioxide it captures with hydrogen to produce carbon-neutral liquid fuel. "That'll be the first application of our technology en masse—making a completely clean fuel," says CEO Steve Oldham. "And, if we need it to, we might one day use it to collect excess CO 2 from the atmosphere.
And if the IPCC's models are any indication, we probably will need to. "The moral hazard discussion would have been great to have in 1980, when atmospheric carbon levels were lower, but it's too late now," says Klaus Lackner, director of the Center for Negative Carbon Emissions at Arizona State University. Lackner pioneered the concept of direct air capture of carbon dioxide, and was quick to counter Anderson and Peters' editorial in Science with a letter of his own. "Throwing a life-preserver to a drowning victim may not assure a successful rescue, but it is not a high-stakes gamble. Offering the life-preserver is preferable," he concluded.
Anderson and Peters rebutted Lackner's rebuttal by extending his analogy; relying on negative emissions, they argued, would be akin to "letting someone jump into a raging torrent, and telling them that we may be able to save them with a technology that we have not yet developed." Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Black Friday Tech Deals Nena Farrell Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker Science squabbles notwithstanding, both sides of the moral hazard argument agree that negative emissions technologies like those in development at Carbon Engineering should be pursued with vigor. Last week, Peters took to Twitter to reiterate his point that while relying on them at scale is a high stakes gamble, "we need research, development, & eventual deployment of negative emission technologies." Keith concurs. "As of today there is extraordinarily little research on it," he says. "The number of scientists funded to do work on carbon removal globally is seriously small." And that's a problem. Because the only thing worse than assuming that carbon removal will save the day is assuming it will save the day—and then not funding its development.
Star Wars and the battle of ever-more-toxic fan culture Meet Germán Garmendia, the aggressively normal YouTube superstar who wants it all Does it matter if China beats the US to build a 5G network ? Save the scooters, redesign the streets , and save San Francisco The race to send robots to mine the ocean floor Looking for more? Sign up for our daily newsletter and never miss our latest and greatest stories Senior Writer X Topics climate change carbon dioxide geoengineering Matt Simon Amit Katwala Ramin Skibba Matt Simon Grace Browne Ramin Skibba Jim Robbins Tristan Kennedy Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
