Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Reece Rogers Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Photograph: Daniel Grizelj/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save OpenAI just integrated its newest image generator, Dall-E 3 , into ChatGPT. The tool is currently in beta for subscribers to ChatGPT Plus , OpenAI’s $20-a-month service. With Dall-E 3 turned on, you can prompt the chatbot in casual language to create distinct images.
How many AI images does it create at a time? "There’s a significant interest in Dall-E 3, so we are adapting based on usage demands," says an OpenAI spokesperson over email. The chatbot often provided four images during WIRED's initial tests. The amount was later reduced to two, and it may change again.
As more powerful image generators become available to the public, legal and ethical issues are gaining prominence. Multiple artists have tried to sue OpenAI for potential copyright infringement, for example. In addition to legal concerns, security experts have expressed fears about the potential for AI image generators to enable the further spread of disinformation.
If you want to try Dall-E 3 for free, a version is available through Microsoft’s Bing Image Creator.
 During the initial days of this integration, users created extreme imagery using Bing, like SpongeBob flying a plane toward the Twin Towers. Since then, Microsoft has added more guardrails around the AI image generator.
For anyone curious about using ChatGPT with Dall-E 3 to create images, here’s how to get started and some advice based on my experience testing the new chatbot tools.
If you’re a ChatGPT Plus subscriber, it’s pretty simple to turn on the chatbot’s Dall-E 3 features. First, log in to OpenAI’s website or the ChatGPT mobile app ( Apple , Android ). After opening ChatGPT, click on the GPT-4 tab at the top of the screen. In the dropdown menu that pops up, select Dall-E 3 (Beta).
In addition to Dall-E 3, ChatGPT Plus subscribers can use “Browse with Bing” to access the internet.
OpenAI via Reece Rogers Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Black Friday Tech Deals Nena Farrell Gear How to Pick the Right MacBook for You Brenda Stolyar Gear These Are the 15 Android Phones Worth Buying Julian Chokkattu There’s a usage cap on how often you can interact with the GPT-4 version of ChatGPT. (These prompts take a hefty amount of computer power to process!) The official limit is set at 50 prompts every three hours. If you hit this wall, the chatbot displays an error message with how long you will have to wait before regaining access.
Beyond the rate limit, be prepared to wait around 30 seconds for the images to arrive. If any of the creations go against OpenAI’s guidelines , you may only receive compliant images or even a message denying the request.
If you’ve ever experimented with an AI image generator before, like Dall-E 2 or Midjourney , one of the biggest differences is that you can now see how ChatGPT acts as an intermediary, crafting multiple prompts for Dall-E 3 to complete.
These prompts created by ChatGPT range from long sentences to complete paragraphs, and each includes different details for Dall-E 3. If people are in the image, the chatbot will often explicitly mention gender and race for the subjects. For example, here is one of the Dall-E 3 prompts ChatGPT used when I requested an image of two WIRED reporters interviewing a CEO: “Photo of a diverse group of three people in a corporate setting: a Middle Eastern female WIRED reporter holding a camera, an African female WIRED reporter with a microphone, and a Caucasian male CEO responding to their questions. The backdrop is a sleek office lounge area.” If you don’t like the first results the chatbot spits out, ask for some aspects to be adjusted, like the color scheme or the overall vibe. Let’s say you really enjoy the third image Dall-E 3 produces from your prompt. After clicking the download button in the top left corner, you can request more images that look similar to the third option.
Has anything been done to protect artists in this new update? Not really. While the chatbot won’t create images if you ask it to mimic a contemporary artist, there are plenty of workarounds.
I asked ChatGPT to design a coffee mug with art in Keith Haring’s style.
 The AI tool refused the initial prompt but offered a compromise, “I can create a design inspired by the general characteristics of his art, such as bold lines, vibrant colors, and simplistic figures. Would you like me to proceed with that?” The end results from ChatGPT, in this instance, were messy and mediocre.
With Dall-E 3, the art from some of the prompts could pass for human-made until you look closely at the background and finer details. Despite improvements in quality, many of the underlying issues with image generators remain.
Expect to see weird distortions and uncanny faces in the images Dall-E 3 creates. The issues can be humorous, like a chatbot struggling to label baking ingredients , but other mistakes are more serious. When asked to create a map outlining Israel and the Gaza Strip, ChatGPT repeatedly mislabeled Gaza as part of the Mediterranean Sea.
Another issue for image generators is that the tools commonly revert to racist stereotypes when depicting humans. Dall-E 3 is no exception. Out of the 20 images I asked ChatGPT to create depicting “WIRED reporters,” the chatbot requested specific, diverse representation for the images, with just a couple of exceptions. When ChatGPT didn’t add race or gender to the prompt, the results were all white and primarily male.
Updated 11/3/2023 1pm EST : This story was updated to clarify that while ChatGPT with Dall-E 3 created sets of four AI images during our software tests, it now often generates two.
You Might Also Like … 📧 Find the best bargains on quality gear with our Deals newsletter “ Someone is using photos of me to talk to men” First-gen social media users have nowhere to go The truth behind the biggest (and dumbest) battery myths We asked a Savile Row tailor to test all the “best” T-shirts you see in social media ads My kid wants to be an influencer.
 Is that bad? 🌞 See if you take a shine to our picks for the best sunglasses and sun protection Service Writer X Topics artificial intelligence how-to OpenAI ChatGPT art advice David Nield Reece Rogers Reece Rogers Julian Chokkattu Brenda Stolyar Lauren Goode Julian Chokkattu Justin Pot WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
