Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Julian Chokkattu Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPad Accessories Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Wait. Which iPad Do You Own? Read more Best Overall Folio Case $50 at Amazon An Easy Way to Draw or Write $99 at Apple (First Gen) Best Cheap Stand-Up Case $29 at Amazon One of the best parts of owning an iPad is that you're never short on accessories. There's a wealth of cases, cables, adapters, styli, keyboards, and stands out there to trick out your slate. But what should you buy? I've spent years filling a corner of my tiny New York apartment with boxes of gear to find the best iPad accessories. Whether you already own an iPad or recently picked one up after perusing our Best iPad guide , there's something here for you.
Check out our many other buying guides, including the Best iPhone , Best iPhone 14 Cases , Best MagSafe Accessories , Best Apple 3-in-1 Chargers , Best Tablets , and Best Drawing Apps.
Updated September 2023: We've added the Paperlike Charcoal Folio Case, Casetify Selfie by Bonnie Lua Case, and a Do Not Recommend section. We also updated links and pricing.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get a 1-year subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Photograph: Apple Wait. Which iPad Do You Own? How to Figure Out Your iPad Model There are so many iPads out there, it can be hard to identify the exact model you own. Do you have the iPad Pro from 2017 with the 10.5-inch screen? Or the 9.7-inch one from 2016? It doesn't help that Apple avoids the sequential naming structure it uses for the iPhone. But no matter.
Finding your model is simple: Look at the back of your iPad. Etched on the back cover, near where it says "Designed by Apple in California," should be a model number starting with the letter A.
Head to this website from Apple.
 Look for your corresponding model number, and that's it! You found your iPad model. (Pro tip: Use your browser's "Find in Page" function to type in your model number and locate it quickly.) Accessory makers usually indicate what iPad a case, folio, or keyboard cover is designed to work with. Most of our picks below are for the newest hardware, but they're often also available for older iPads. Just search for the product name and your iPad model.
If you see a retailer mentioning a specific generation, this is Apple's current lineup: iPad : 9th generation (2021) iPad : 10th generation (2022) iPad Mini : 6th generation (2021) iPad Air : 5th generation (2022) iPad Pro 11-inch : 4th generation (2022) iPad Pro 12.9-inch : 6th generation (2022) Photograph: Zugu Best Overall Folio Case Zugu Case It took mere minutes to realize I was looking at the best iPad case I'd ever tried. Zugu has been making iPad cases for a long time, and it has one for practically every model out there. It feels durable, with a rigid bumper around the edges, and the buttons are easy to press. There's a sizable lip sticking out of the edges to protect the screen if it falls flat, which is nice. The cover is magnetized so it stays shut (and can wake or put the screen to sleep). Flip it around and pull out the flap on the back to magnetically adjust the screen for up to eight ( eight!) different angles. Because the cover is rigid and large, it's also one of the most stable iPad cases I've ever used on my lap.
Best of all, since the case is magnetic, you can just stick the whole thing to a fridge and it stays secure. It's well-designed, comes in an array of colors, is reasonably priced, and even has a spot to securely store the Apple Pencil when it's not charging. It's hard to find faults here—Zugu also donates 10 percent of all its profits to charitable causes like Children International.
$50 at Amazon $50 at Zugu Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Gear The Best Black Friday Tech Deals Nena Farrell Photograph: Apple An Easy Way to Draw or Write Apple Pencil The Apple Pencil is one of the most useful tools you can add to the iPad. The entire current lineup supports it, from the Mini to the Pro. It's excellent for drawing, with an imperceptible delay as the Pencil moves across the glass display. Like a normal pencil, your lines get thicker as you press down harder. The Pencil is also great for navigating iPadOS, which has handwriting support in various search fields so you don't need to switch to the keyboard to type—and it's handy for signing or marking up documents.
The first-generation Pencil has some drawbacks. There's no good place to connect it to your iPad when you aren't using it, you need to remove the cap and plug the end of the stylus into the iPad to charge it (it has a Lightning connector), and it loves to roll off any surface. Apple fixed all of these issues with the second-generation model , which magnetically sticks to the top of compatible iPads and wirelessly charges. At the moment, the base ninth- and 10th-gen iPads are the only models that still use the first-gen Pencil.
★ A cheaper alternative: A slightly more affordable option I like is the Logitech Crayon ($70).
 It's especially great for kids because it's thicker yet maintains great palm rejection, decent (but not identical) pressure sensitivity, and low latency. Logitech has updated it with USB-C support, so now you can truly ditch that Lightning cable.
$99 at Apple (First Gen) $129 at Apple (Second Gen) Photograph: Spigen Best Cheap Stand-Up Case Spigen Rugged Armor Pro Spigen's folio case is bulkier than Apple's official case , but it protects the entire tablet with a bumper covering the edges. There's also a tough back cover made of thermoplastic polyurethane and polyurethane leather, plus a magnetic latch to keep the folio closed. You can convert the display cover into a stand to prop the whole thing up (there are two angle options). When it's in Theater Mode, you won't see much wobble or sliding when tapping the screen. There's a spot to secure the Apple Pencil, but don't worry, the second-gen stylus will still pair and charge. Unfortunately, when you cover the display up, it won't automatically shut it off.
★ Also great: The Incipio SureView ($50) is only available for the ninth and two previous generation base iPads. Unlike most folio cases, the cover flap doesn't fold at the back. Instead, you lay it out and the polycarbonate case can attach to magnetic notches that allow for four different viewing angles. It works better on laps than Spigen's case, but it also takes up more room on a desk.
$29 at Amazon Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Gear The Best Black Friday Tech Deals Nena Farrell Photograph: Twelve South Best Arm Mount Twelve South HoverBar Duo 2.0 When possible, I put all my screens on arm mounts. Ultrawide monitor? Mounted. iPad? You bet. It clears up the precious space that would've been taken by a pesky stand, and you can adjust the angle and height of the screen. Twelve South's HoverBar Duo delivers this luxury. I mounted it to the side of my bed frame for several months to catch up on Cyberpunk: Edgerunners.
 The clamp is slim and doesn't need much clearance, so you can attach it to shelves, kitchen counters, or desks.
If you do want to use a stand, Twelve South includes one, and you can easily remove the arm from the clamp and transfer it directly to the stand without needing to take the iPad out. You don't need to choose to use one or the other—you can have the clamp on your bed and stand at your desk and just slot the arm holding the iPad into whichever whenever you want. The arm supported the 12.9-inch iPad Pro as well as the base iPad with no trouble, but if the hinges ever start feeling loose, you can tighten 'em up with the included hex key.
$80 at Amazon $80 at Twelve South Photograph: Satechi Best Stand Satechi Aluminum Desktop Stand Using a folio case to prop the iPad up can be annoying. That's why I prefer a dedicated stand like this one from Satechi. It has carried my 12.9-inch iPad Pro for more than two years, and the hinges haven't loosened at all. The rubber base prevents it from sliding easily, and there are two hinges to tweak the height and viewing angle of the tablet. It's lightweight enough that you can tote it from room to room—I even packed it with me on a trip to Atlanta, Georgia.
★ A more portable stand: The Compass Pro from Twelve South ($53) is a little more travel-friendly than the Satechi. It's lightweight and takes up very little room in a bag. You can angle it however you want with the back leg, and the metal build and silicone grips keep it steady. I tested it with the 12.9-inch iPad Pro, and it had no trouble holding the device, though I do wish the back leg's hinge had more resistance, as it would sometimes change positions when I lifted the slate off.
$45 at Amazon $45 at Satechi Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Gear The Best Black Friday Tech Deals Nena Farrell Photograph: Logitech Best Keyboard Case Logitech Combo Touch Cursor support has turned the iPad into a more capable computer , but if you plan on doing work on these tablets, you should invest in a case with a built-in keyboard, trackpad, and kickstand. The Combo Touch fits the bill. It's also detachable, so you can ditch the keyboard when you don't need it and still have a kickstand case. It's impossible to dislike. The whole package is fairly slim, with a lovely fabric texture, and it looks spiffy! The kickstand easily passes the lap test—it didn't wobble much or make the iPad fall off while I typed with it on my lap. The backlit keys are helpful if you're in a dark room, and typing on it feels nice. The best part? It connects via Apple's Smart Connector, so there's no need to futz about with Bluetooth or worry about charging it.
★ Another alternative: Zagg's more affordable Pro Keys cases aren't as elegant as Logitech's system, but you can connect them via Bluetooth to two different devices. That means you'll need to recharge them via USB-C. I like the keyboard a little more, though the trackpad isn't as roomy. It's a detachable system with a separate case for the slate, and it's available for the ninth-gen iPad , iPad Air , and 11-inch iPad Pro , as well as the 12.9-inch iPad Pro.
$135 at Amazon (9th-Gen iPad) $150 at Logitech (10th-Gen iPad) $200 at Amazon (iPad Air and iPad Pro) Photograph: Sketchboard Pro A Sketching Surface Sketchboard Pro Drawing on the 12.9-inch iPad Pro is a wonderful experience. Its magazine-like size gives it good stability on your lap if you're sketching on the couch, but I can't say the same for drawing on the smaller iPads. Without a good surface, it can be awkward. That's where the Sketchboard Pro comes in. It expands your surface area, so you can comfortably doodle anywhere —in bed, on the couch, or even on a desk—because it has legs you can pull out to tilt the screen. You can even stand it vertically like an easel to get your Bob Ross on! It has an integrated handle for easy toting, storage space for your stylus, and space to plug in a cable to recharge your iPad while drawing. There's broad support for a variety of new or old iPads, and you can even change the centerpiece in case you upgrade to a different iPad. The cons? It's heavy and big.
$129 at Sketchboard Pro Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Gear The Best Black Friday Tech Deals Nena Farrell Photograph: Paperlike Turn Tablet to Paper Paperlike Screen Cover There's something about drawing on iPads that still doesn't feel as nice—or natural—as putting pencil to paper. The Paperlike changes that. This screen cover goes over your iPad's screen to mimic the texture and friction of sketching on paper. WIRED reviewer Jaina Grey says the film is harder to apply than a typical screen protector (make sure you clean your iPad's screen thoroughly before!). But when you're done, it adds enough resistance that you'll find it hard to go back to drawing on glass.
★A Paperlike Case: We're also fans of the Charcoal Folio Case ($70).
 Designed to feel like a sketchbook, it has a polyester fabric cover that feels super high-quality and lightweight. It can also be used to prop up your iPad at two different levels. This case doesn't come with an Apple Pencil slot, but the large flap closure keeps it from falling out. Although we only tested the Folio Case with the iPad Air , it's also available for i Pad Pro (both models).
$45 at Amazon Photograph: Lamicall A Gooseneck Arm Mount Lamicall Gooseneck iPad Holder The problem with the Twelve South arm mount above is that it's not the most adjustable. This Lamicall gooseneck iPad holder solves this—the entire mount uses a flexible rod you can adjust to your heart's content. It's lengthy enough to move into a variety of angles, and it doesn't loosen up over time. The base is a clamp you can attach to a desk or nightstand. The downside is it's a lot more wobbly when you tap the screen. Still, it's ideal for watching movies or shows in bed without having to lie in an awkward position or hold the tablet up. If you don't want a clamp, I like this floor stand ($70) variant with an extendable height. I've used it in the kitchen while I follow recipes on the screen.
$26 at Amazon Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Gear The Best Black Friday Tech Deals Nena Farrell Photograph: Zagg Best Budget Keyboard Case Zagg Messenger Folio 2 for the iPad The last thing you want to do after spending hundreds of dollars on the cheapest iPad is to spend more than $100 on a keyboard case. That's where Zagg's Messenger Folio 2 comes in. You get a wonderful, compact keyboard cover with great key travel for a satisfying typing experience. I also like the dedicated keys for going Home, opening up the recent apps menu, and locking the iPad, though it's a shame the keys aren't backlit, and there's no trackpad.
It looks sleek, with a fabric-like exterior (stylus holder included), and your iPad screen will turn off as you close it. There is only one viewing angle, but it stays put on my lap when I type. You also have to recharge the keyboard via USB-C, but mine didn't need a charge for two months, even though I used it for a few hours every day. It connects via Bluetooth, so you can see the remaining battery life through a widget in iPadOS. For the current iPad lineup, it's only available for the ninth- and 10th-gen iPad.
$49 at Amazon (9th-Gen iPad) $70 at Zagg (10th-Gen iPad) Photograph: Harber London A Leather Sleeve Harber London Magnetic Envelope Sleeve If the price doesn't put you off, this is a rather elegant way to protect your iPad. There's full-grain leather on one side and 100 percent wool felt on the other (and the inside). It feels exquisite. It's roomy enough to fit an iPad with a case on it, and it's available for several generations of the base model slate, including the new 10th-gen iPad, the iPad Air, and the iPad Pro. There's a little leather loop to carry your Apple Pencil for extra security. The sleeve has a slot on one side to access the USB-C charging port, but more unique is its ability to double as a stand. It's not the most versatile stand—you only really get one angle—but it did the job on my lap, which is an impressive feat for such a floppy item.
★ More leather cases: Nomad's Modern Leather Case ($100) is available for the iPad Air ($90) and iPad Pro models, and it's an easy way to add basic protection to your slate while classing it up. The bumper is made of thermoplastic elastomer and is slightly raised (though not enough to adequately protect the screen). I love the full-grain leather look and feel, and it's been developing a nice patina over time. There's a Folio version for both models if you want to prop the iPad up.
$89 at Harber London Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Gear The Best Black Friday Tech Deals Nena Farrell Photograph: Logitech A Bluetooth Keyboard Logitech K380 If you don't want to fuss with keyboard cases, Bluetooth keyboards are the way to go. I really love using the K380—and not just because it comes in a fun pink color. It's a quiet but tactile keyboard, and you can connect it to a total of three devices and switch between them quickly. It's slim, lightweight, and portable. Plus, it's powered by two AAA batteries, which lasted four months for me. And … did I mention it comes in pink? ★ Upgrade pick: Want a mechanical keyboard that's lightweight and portable, just like your tablet? My favorite is the Logitech MX Mechanical Mini ($150).
 It's compact and has satisfyingly clicky keys, plus they're backlit. It recharges via USB-C but I've only had to plug it in once every few months. It connects either via Bluetooth or a USB-A dongle (or with the included USB-C cable), and the connection is reliable and never faltered.
$27 at Amazon $40 at Logitech Photograph: Apple A Slim Trackpad Apple Magic Trackpad 2 If you want a roomier touchpad, I like Apple's thin and light Magic Trackpad 2. There are no physical buttons. Instead, Apple's Force Touch sensors let you feel various levels of pressure on the pad. You can also use some iPadOS gestures on it, limiting the need to reach for the screen. It's amazingly slim and easy to take with you anywhere. It pairs via Bluetooth, and—annoyingly—recharges with the Lightning port (nearly all the current iPads charge via USB-C). Thankfully, you don't have to recharge it often.
If you prefer a mouse: The Logitech Pebble ($25) is tiny and slim. A bigger, more ergonomic gaming mouse might be a better option for a permanent desk setup , but for work on the go, the Pebble is a quiet clicker that pairs quickly and has a smooth scroll wheel.
$129 at Apple $140 at Walmart Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Gear The Best Black Friday Tech Deals Nena Farrell Photograph: Satechi A Hub With a Built-In Stand Satechi Aluminum Stand & Hub Using your iPad Air or Pro for work or school? You probably need to add more ports, like an HDMI port to hook up the tablet to a bigger 4K screen, or a headphone jack in case you need to use corded headphones. This one from Satechi kills two birds with one stone. It's a hub, so you get an HDMI port, USB-A, 3.5-mm audio port, SD and MicroSD card reader, and a 60-watt USB-C charging port. But it also works as a stand, so you don't need a folio case or separate stand to prop the tablet up.
The hub connects via USB-C (the cable hides away underneath). You can't change the viewing angle, but the stand folds up. It won't take up too much space in your backpack, and it's lightweight. However, if you plan on propping your tablet up vertically for video calls, you'll have to lean forward to get your face in the center of the frame.
$100 at Amazon $100 at Satechi Photograph: Hyper Great Multi-Port Hubs More Dongles If you prefer a standard dongle-style hub or just something that doesn't have an integrated stand, here are a few other options I've tested and like. Read our Best USB Hubs and Docks guide for more recommendations.
Twelve South StayGo Mini USB-C Hub for $60 : This tiny USB-C hub might be all you need, and it's seriously compact. It's a little taller but narrower than a Zippo lighter, and you get a 4K HDMI port, a USB-A, an 85-watt USB-C port with pass-through charging, and a headphone jack. I had trouble fitting it on an iPad protected by a case, but Twelve South includes a female USB-C to male USB-C cable that solves this issue.
Hyper HyperDrive 6-in-1 Dongle for $96 : It has a 60-watt USB-C port, USB-A, MicroSD slot, SD card slot, 3.5-mm audio, and 4K 60-Hz HDMI. You can stick it into your iPad's USB-C port and have it sit flush and firm with the edge or swap to a flappy, short cable. You need the cable if you have a case on your iPad, and Hyper provides the screws and screwdriver to swap the part out (it took me two minutes). Just remember to unplug it when you're not using it, as it will slowly drain your tablet's battery.
Satechi USB-C Hybrid With SSD Enclosure for $90 : Satechi's four-port hub is a little too large, considering the number of ports you get, but there's a good reason for that. Pop off the aluminum cover and you'll find a slot for an M.2 SATA solid-state storage drive slot. That means access to an external SSD, along with two USB-A jacks, one 100-watt USB-C pass-through charging port, and a 4K HDMI at the same time. I did not have an M.2 SATA drive to test, but this 1-terabyte card should work.
 Just know that Satechi's hub does not support NVME M.2 cards.
Anker USB-C to Ethernet Adapter for $23 : Most people won't need an Ethernet port on an iPad, but maybe you're taking a stab at some cloud gaming on your tablet. If so, you'll need the fastest speeds you can get so your games appear in the highest quality possible. This simple, aluminum USB-C to Ethernet dongle delivered around 700 Mbps download speeds on the iPad Pro in my home, which is what my desktop PC usually hits.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Gear The Best Black Friday Tech Deals Nena Farrell Photograph: OWC Portable Storage OWC Envoy Pro Elektron SSD OWC's portable NVME solid state drive (SSD) is speedy, with an aluminum build that feels extremely durable. It's also IP67 water-resistant, so a drop in a river or accidentally spilling your mocha frappucino all over it won't destroy your files. Did I mention it's tiny? It's a little larger than a tin of Altoids. OWC includes a USB-C to USB-C cable, but the cable also has a USB-A adapter so you have some connectivity variety from the get-go. Storage starts at 240 GB, but you can go all the way up to a 2-terabyte model. Check out our Best Portable Storage Drives guide for more.
$130 at Amazon (1 TB) $200 at B&H (480 GB) Photograph: Anker A Charging Adapter Anker Nano 3 Apple hasn't nixed the charging adapter from its iPads yet, but it probably won't be long before you'll need to start buying your own. Or maybe you just want a spare for another room. I like this tiny adapter from Anker. The 30 watts can fast-charge the iPad Pro despite the compact size and the plug folds in, making it a nice option to take on the go.
★ Upgrade pick: Satechi's 108-watt charger ($75) is plenty powerful enough to recharge your MacBook Pro, iPad Pro, and iPhone 14 Pro Max at the same time with its three USB-C ports. It's relatively compact and has a plug that folds up.
$20 at Amazon Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Gear The Best Black Friday Tech Deals Nena Farrell Photograph: Nimble A Durable Cable Nimble PowerKnit USB-C to Lightning Cable If you're rough on your tech, Apple's charging cables aren't going to last. These USB-C to Lightning and USB-C to USB-C Nimble cables are great. They're rated to carry 60 watts of power, made from certified recycled plastic and aluminum (BPA- and PVC-free), and they're affordable. I also think they're some of the most attractive cables around, thanks to the knit fabric design. You can snag 'em in 1-, 2-, or 3-meter sizes (around 3, 6.5, and 10 feet). Check out our Best USB-C Cables guide for more.
$27 at Nimble (USB-C to Lightning) $23 at Nimble (USB-C to USB-C) Photograph: Einova A Battery Pack Einova Eggtronic Ultra Fast Power Bank (63W) Find yourself away from a wall outlet often? A portable charger can juice your iPad up wherever you are. This one from Einova packs a 20,000-mAh capacity that can completely recharge an 11-inch tablet twice. It’s also capable of dispensing 45 watts of power for fast charging via the USB-C port and 18 watts using the USB-A port. If needed, you can also use it to recharge your laptop—as long as it’s not power-hungry, like the MacBook Pro.
I like that it’s slim, fits into the padded sleeves of most backpacks, and has a fabric material on the outside that’s nice to touch and won’t scuff up other gear in your bag. There’s a small display that also shows how much juice is left in the tank, which is a must-have on any power bank. For more portable charger recommendations, read our guide here.
$48 at Amazon $70 at Einova $70 at Best Buy Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Gear The Best Black Friday Tech Deals Nena Farrell Photograph: SanDisk A Flash Drive SanDisk iXpand Luxe (128 GB) If you're like me, you're constantly dismissing the "iCloud Storage is full" notification from your iPhone. Maybe it's time to offload last year's travel pics to the iPad to clear out space. Flash drives are always handy for transferring data on the go. This one from SanDisk has various storage options (going all the way up to 256 gigabytes). It has a Lightning port on one end and USB-C on the other—great if you want to use it with your iPhone. If you need Lightning and USB-A, I also like the iXpand Flash Drive Go ($40).
You'll need to download SanDisk's iXpand app for the drive to be registered, but transferring files is smooth afterward. Alternatively, if you plug it into an iPad via a hub, you can easily access data with Apple's Files app. Read our Best USB Flash Drives guide for other options.
$40 at Amazon $40 at Adorama Photograph: Zagg Best Rugged Case Zagg Rugged Pro Connect A keyboard case feels like it's a necessity with the iPad nowadays, and if you're using one in an active area, then it's worth snagging the Rugged Pro Connect case. It's bulky but super protective of the iPad—even protecting the screen. The case connects to the keyboard via the Smart Connector, though it requires some precise aligning to get it hooked up. Once it's in place, start typing away! It's nice to type on, there's no Bluetooth to worry about, and you don't have to recharge the keyboard. There's a Lightning port on the right side edge that'll pass-through charge the iPad (it's only available for the seventh-, eighth-, and ninth-gen iPads).
The case is IP42-rated so you should be safe from spills, and there's a little spot to carry the Apple Pencil if needed. The screen does require a firmer press, but that might be worth the added peace of mind.
★ Also great: The OtterBox Defender Series ($56) offers similar protection. It's available for the iPad , 10th-gen iPad , iPad Mini , iPad Air , and iPad Pro models.
 There's a built-in screen protector and covers for the charging port, volume rockers, and Apple Pencil. There’s also an outer shell with a kickstand you can clip on if you want to prop up the iPad. It’s far too clunky for my liking, but you'll be hard-pressed to find more protection for your slate.
$170 at Amazon $170 at Zagg Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Gear The Best Black Friday Tech Deals Nena Farrell Photograph: Speck Other Great Accessories Honorable Mentions iPad accessories are endless. Here are some other options that are perfectly fine—though some have issues that put them down a rung.
Apple Smart Cover for $49 and Smart Folio for $79 : These slim cases and covers from Apple do the job just fine and can even convert into kickstands to prop up your tablet. They're also some of the best options for the iPad Mini.
Apple Magic Keyboard for $299 : If not for its price tag, this would be one of the better iPad case and keyboard options. It feels great to type on, the trackpad integrates seamlessly into iPadOS, and it even has a USB-C port. It’s a bit bulky, but it’s a great accessory to keep on hand when you need to do some serious typing. It works with the iPad Air and iPad Pro.
 There's also a folio version available for the new 10th-gen iPad.
Apple Smart Keyboard Folio iPad Pro and iPad Air for $179+ and Ninth-Gen iPad for $159 : Just slap these keyboard covers on and you're good to go. There's no pairing or charging needed because they use Apple's Smart Connector. They're some of the slimmest keyboard covers you'll find, but I personally hate typing on them. I prefer springy feedback, and you'll get none of that here. People do love this keyboard, though, especially the fact that it's silent.
Moft Snap Float Folio for $60 : Honestly, the idea behind this case is smart, but it's just a little too annoying to use. It's slim and barely feels protective, and you can fold it in different ways to prop up your iPad at four angles—kind of like origami. It's difficult to remember the exact methods for some of these modes at first, but I got used to them, though I had to readjust it on the iPad too many times.
Moft Float Case for $56 : This protective case has a real stand that sits flush on the back. Pull it out and you can prop the tablet up at a decent height and even change the viewing angle (it works in portrait or landscape orientation). It's wobbly when you tap the screen in floating mode, but I didn't find this too annoying. It is tough to pull out the stand, but I bite my nails, so this might not be an issue for you.
SaharaCase Folio Case for $30 : We tested this case for the iPad Mini, but you can also get it for the ninth-gen iPad , iPad Air , and iPad Pro ( both models ). On the outside is an automatic sleep/wake cover that doubles as a kickstand to prop up the iPad. There’s also a really nice marble pattern on the front and back that makes it stand out. You can also stow the Apple Pencil on the inside, so you don't have to worry about it falling off.
Speck Balance Folio Case for $45 : This features built-in grooves for various adjustable angles, as well as a removable camera cover. There’s a latch in place of a magnetic cover and the Apple Pencil slot sits on the outside. It's available for the Air, 11-inch Pro , 12.9-inch Pro , and the ninth- and 10th-gen iPad.
OtterBox Symmetry Series 360 Case for $70 : This folio for the base ninth- and 10th-gen iPad and iPad Air fixes everything I didn't like about our top Spigen pick, but it's pricier. The clear back lets the iPad's design come through, and while the display cover can fold into the same two viewing angles, covering the screen actually puts it to sleep here. The folio's latch keeps the whole thing tightly closed, and it also holds any Apple Pencil. The latch does kind of flop around when it's not closed though. I don't recommend buying the Symmetry Series 360 Elite cases for the iPad Pro , as they're not pleasant to use.
Griffin Survivor All-Terrain Case for $61 : This comes in two pieces, and it's easy to clip the iPad between them. There's screen protection, but the small gap between the screen cover and the screen might irk anyone trying to sketch. Almost every part of the iPad is protected, and the buttons remain easy to press. Best of all is a removable kickstand on the back. It doubles as a grip to keep the slate secure when you hold it one-handed, but I never found this secondary perk all that useful. It's available for the Mini (fourth-gen).
Casetify Selfie by Bonnie Lu Ultra Impact Folio Case for $82: If you're looking for an iPad case that offers great protection and has adorable prints to choose from, look no further than Casetify's lineup. We've been obsessed with this Selfie by Bonnie Lu case for a few months now—it packs extra protection on all four corners of the device and can withstand drops up to 4 feet, plus the artwork is super cute. It has grooves on the front cover too, allowing you to adjust the angle of the iPad. We tested this case for the iPad Air, but you can also get it for the 10th-gen iPad , iPad Mini , and iPad Pro (both models).
Photograph: Zagg Do Not Recommend Avoid These Accessories Zagg Pro Stylus 2 for $80 :The Zagg Pro Stylus 2 is cute and all, especially in the Yellow No. 2 design, but at $80, you may as well wait to buy the second-gen Apple Pencil , since it frequently dips to $89. With no support for pressure sensitivity, you also have to tilt the stylus to achieve thick or thin lines—but it doesn't feel seamless.
Reviews Editor X Product Writer & Reviewer X Topics Shopping iPad tablets apple buying guides Accessories and Peripherals cases Brenda Stolyar Julian Chokkattu Adrienne So Adrienne So Jaina Grey Simon Hill Eric Ravenscraft Julian Chokkattu WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
