Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Will Knight Business When AI Makes Art, Humans Supply the Creative Spark Courtesy of David R Munson Save this story Save Save this story Save Application Human-computer interaction Text analysis End User Consumer Sector Entertainment Social media Source Data Images Text Technology Machine learning New products often come with disclaimers, but in April the artificial intelligence company OpenAI issued an unusual warning when it announced a new service called DALL-E 2.
 The system can generate vivid and realistic photos, paintings, and illustrations in response to a line of text or an uploaded image. One part of OpenAI’s release notes cautioned that “the model may increase the efficiency of performing some tasks like photo editing or production of stock photography, which could displace jobs of designers, photographers, models, editors, and artists.” So far, that hasn’t come to pass. People who have been granted early access to DALL-E have found that it elevates human creativity rather than making it obsolete.
Benjamin Von Wong , an artist who creates installations and sculptures, says it has, in fact, increased his productivity. “DALL-E is a wonderful tool for someone like me who cannot draw,” says Von Wong , who uses the tool to explore ideas that could later be built into physical works of art. “Rather than needing to sketch out concepts, I can simply generate them through different prompt phrases.” DALL-E is one of a raft of new AI tools for generating images.
Aza Raskin , an artist and designer, used open source software to generate a music video for the musician Zia Cora that was shown at the TED conference in April. The project helped convince him that image-generating AI will lead to an explosion of creativity that permanently changes humanity’s visual environment. “Anything that can have a visual will have one,” he says, potentially upending people’s intuition for judging how much time or effort was expended on a project. “Suddenly we have this tool that makes what was hard to imagine and visualize easy to make exist.” It's too early to know how such a transformative technology will ultimately affect illustrators, photographers, and other creatives. But at this point, the idea that artistic AI tools will displace workers from creative jobs—in the way that people sometimes describe robots replacing factory workers—appears to be an oversimplification. Even for industrial robots, which perform relatively simple, repetitive tasks, the evidence is mixed.
Some economic studies suggest that the adoption of robots by companies results in lower employment and lower wages overall, but there is also evidence that in certain settings robots increase job opportunities.
“There’s way too much doom and gloom in the art community,” where some people too readily assume machines can replace human creative work, says Noah Bradley , a digital artist who posts YouTube tutorials on using AI tools. Bradley believes the impact of software like DALL-E will be similar to the effect of smartphones on photography—making visual creativity more accessible without replacing professionals. Creating powerful, usable images still requires a lot of careful tweaking after something is first generated, he says. “There’s a lot of complexity to creating art that machines are not ready for yet.” The first version of DALL-E , announced in January 2021 , was a landmark for computer-generated art. It showed that machine-learning algorithms fed many thousands of images as training data could reproduce and recombine features from those existing images in novel, coherent, and aesthetically pleasing ways.
A year later, DALL-E 2 markedly improved the quality of images that can be produced. It can also reliably adopt different artistic styles, and can produce images that are more photorealistic. Want a studio-quality photograph of a Shiba Inu dog wearing a beret and black turtleneck? Just type that in and wait.
 A steampunk illustration of a castle in the clouds? No problem.
 Or a 19th-century-style painting of a group of women signing the Declaration of Independence? Great idea ! Many people experimenting with DALL-E and similar AI tools describe them less as a replacement than as a new kind of artistic assistant or muse. “It's like talking to an alien entity,” says David R Munson , a photographer, writer, and English teacher in Japan who has been using DALL-E for the past two weeks. “It is trying to understand a text prompt and communicate back to us what it sees, and it just kind of squirms in this amazing way and produces things that you really don't expect." Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg Munson likens DALL-E’s responses to his prompts to the weird or surprising logical connections made by the young children he teaches. He asked the program to create an “anthropomorphic pot roast holding a Bible,” imagining it would produce something like a pot of stew with eyes, but he got something quite different. “It made these weird, lumpy meat-men,” he says. Munson also used DALL-E to recreate a vivid memory from his childhood, of watching television news of the fatal Space Shuttle Challenger accident in 1986.
David R Munson used an AI tool called DALL-E 2 to recreate his memory of seeing a TV news report about the 1986 Space Shuttle Challenger disaster.
Courtesy of David R Munson The new version of DALL-E is just one example of a new category of powerful image-generation tools. Google recently announced two, Imagen , in May, and Parti , in June. Several open source projects have also created image generators, such as Craiyon, which went viral last month after people began using it to post memes on social media.
New companies have sprung up to commercialize artistic AI tools. A website and app called Wombo can generate images in a variety of styles in response to a text prompt or an existing image, and it sells prints or NFTs of the results.
Midjourney , an independent research lab that has made its technology available to beta testers, can turn text prompts into vivid, sometimes abstract illustrations.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg David Holz, the founder of Midjourney and previously CTO of Leap Motion, a 3D computer interface company, does not see his tool competing with artists.
“We're focused on exploring the essence of imagination,” he says. “Imagination is used for many things, sometimes art, but more often simply reflection and play. We wouldn't call what we make AI-art, as the AI doesn't make anything on its own. It has no will, no agency.” Midjourney runs a Discord where beta testers can submit a prompt for the company’s algorithm to work with. Many people testing the service are artists, Holz says. “They feel broadly empowered and optimistic about using the technology as part of their workflow.” DALL-E and many other AI art tools are built on recent advances in machine learning that have enabled algorithms that process text or images to operate at much greater scale and accuracy. A few years ago, researchers found a way to feed huge volumes of text scraped from novels and the internet into these algorithms, allowing them to capture statistical patterns of text. After that training, the system could generate highly convincing text when given a starting sentence.
Similar AI models have since proven adept at capturing and recreating patterns from other data, including audio and digital images—the basis of DALL-E. But these image-generation systems lack any real understanding of the world and can produce images that are glitchy or nonsensical. And because they replicate the web-sourced images they were trained on, they can reflect societal biases—for example, always rendering doctors as male and flight attendants as female. There is also the potential that such programs could be used to generate fake photographs that are used to spread misinformation.
OpenAI has acknowledged these risks and says it has implemented measures to prevent DALL-E from being used to create objectionable or misleading imagery. Those include preventing the system from generating images in response to certain words, and restricting the generation of celebrity faces.
The errors and glitches of AI image generators can themselves feel like an artistic tool.
Craiyon , a less-capable clone of the original DALL-E previously named DALL-E Mini, went viral last month after users discovered the fun in providing it with surreal, farcical, or unnerving text prompts.
One art critic describes the limitations of the AI behind Caiyon as yielding an “ online grotesque ”—bizarre or disturbing fusions drawn from the zeitgeist of the internet. Popular examples include “ muscular teapots ,” “ gaming urinals ,” or “ Death star gender reveals.
” Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg “Peoples' clever prompts are at least half the fun,” says Aaron Hertzmann , a principal scientist at Adobe Research and an affiliate professor at the University of Washington who studies computational art. He says Craiyon and other image-generation tools are enabling new forms of exploration, something inherent to creativity. And he compares text-to-image tools to a kind of conceptual art similar to that of Sol LeWitt or John Baldessare , where the idea behind a piece can be its most important component.
Perhaps the biggest change that AI image generators will bring is dramatically expanding the number of people able to generate and experiment with art and illustration. “Optimistically, you might say this is revolutionary in communication,” says Tom White , an artist based in New Zealand whose work explores artificial intelligence.
 Even those who are not artistically inclined could use such tools to generate and share creative images, White says, something people are already doing with Craiyon memes. “That may change how we relate to each other.” White, who’s artwork includes abstract images carefully crafted to fool common image-recognition programs , says he enjoys testing DALL-E 2 to try and reveal aspects of the images in its training data, and what restrictions have been placed on the system to prevent creation of offensive images. Over time, he begins to see a kind of “personality” in the missteps a particular system makes.
White suspects that tools like DALL-E 2 may become far more powerful and interesting as it becomes possible to interact with them in different ways. The only way to refine an image DALL-E produces currently is to rewrite the prompt or crop the image and use it as the prompt for a new set of ideas. White believes that it won’t be long before people using creative AI tools will be able to ask for specific adjustments to an image. “Dall-E is not the end of the road,” White says.
Additional reporting from Tom Simonite.
You Might Also Like … 📩 Get the long view on tech with Steven Levy's Plaintext newsletter Watch this guy work, and you’ll finally understand the TikTok era How Telegram became a terrifying weapon in the Israel-Hamas War Inside Elon Musk’s first election crisis —a day after he “freed” the bird The ultra-efficient farm of the future is in the sky The best pickleball paddles for beginners and pros 🌲 Our Gear team has branched out with a new guide to the best sleeping pads and fresh picks for the best coolers and binoculars Senior Writer X Topics artificial intelligence art creativity image recognition machine learning Christopher Beam Will Knight Will Knight Will Knight Reece Rogers Vittoria Elliott Caitlin Harrington Niamh Rowe Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
