Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Matt Jancer Culture More Artists Are Writing Songs in the Key of AI Daniel Savage Save this story Save Save this story Save End User Consumer Sector Entertainment Technology Machine learning Music written by teams, David Byrne once wrote, is arguably more accessible than that written by a sole composer. Collaborations, he mused, may result in more "universal" sentiments. But what if your partner isn’t human at all, but artificial intelligence ? Now music producers are enlisting AI to crank out hits.
Created by Sony’s Computer Science Laboratories, Flow Machines analyzes tracks from around the world, then suggests scores that artists—including electropop musician ALB and jazz vocalist Camille Bertault—interpret into songs. For its debut album, Hello World , the AI also surveyed syllables and words from existing music to create original (albeit gibberish) vocals.
Recommended track: The Beatles-­inspired " Daddy’s Car " Jukedeck was originally developed to compose background tracks for user-­generated videos; now it’s being adopted by K-pop stars like Kim Bo-hyung and Highteen. Using deep neural networks, the AI predicts note sequences to compose brand new songs. After users select parameters such as mood, genre, and beats per minute, the AI cranks out a track that artists can embellish.
Recommended track: Highteen’s ultra-­processed hit " Digital Love " The Artificial Intelligence Virtual Artist, aka Aiva , combs through the works of composers such as Bach, Beethoven, and Mozart and uses the principles of music theory to make predictions and generate musical models. The program, developed by computer scientist Pierre ­Barreau, reconfigures those models into an original piece and arranges new sheet music.
Recommended track: " Among the Stars, " in the style of composer John Williams Landr automates the audio mastering process in minutes. The AI compares nearly finished tracks to a database of 7 million already mastered singles and tweaks each song based on previous adjustments. By processing the tracks as a batch, Landr hones a unified sound.
Recommended track: R&B single " Your World, " produced by Kosine YouTube personality Taryn Southern used IBM’s Watson to make her debut album, I AM AI.
Watson Beat studies patterns among keys and rhythms in 20-second clips of existing songs, then translates its findings into new tracks. Artists can use the open source application to layer their own instrumentals on top of the AI composite.
Recommended track: Southern’s synth-pop track "New World" If Trump is laundering Russian money here's how it would work Spot the contraband in these airport baggage x-rays How a DNA transfer nearly convicted an innocent man of murder PHOTO ESSAY: Ominous views of Japan’s new concrete seawalls Best robot vacuums : Pet hair, carpets, hardwood floors, and more This article appears in the May issue.
Subscribe now.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg Writer and Reviewer Topics magazine-26.05 Music artificial intelligence Jason Parham Geek's Guide to the Galaxy Angela Watercutter Gabrielle Niola Geoffrey Bunting Jennifer M. Wood Matt Kamen Megan Farokhmanesh Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
