Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Tom Simonite Business Artificial Intelligence Is Coming for Our Faces Play/Pause Button Pause Save this story Save Save this story Save Application Deepfakes Identifying Fabrications Company Nvidia End User Research Source Data Images Technology Machine vision Neural Network Every stranger’s face hides a secret, but the smiles in this crowd conceal a big one: These people do not exist. They were generated by machine learning algorithms, for the purposes of probing whether AI-made faces can pass as real. (Call it a Turing beauty contest.) University of Washington professors Jevin West and Carl Bergstrom generated thousands of virtual visages to create Which Face Is Real? , an online game that pairs each counterfeit with a photo of a real person and challenges players to pick out the true human. Nearly 6 million rounds have been played by half a million people. These are some of the faces that players found most difficult to identify as the cheery replicants they are.
The faces were made using a technique invented in 2018 by researchers at Nvidia , the graphics processor company. Trained for a week on a massive data set of portraits, a neural network became capable of mimicking visual patterns and spitting out striking images of nonexistent people. (Some of the software’s guts resemble the code that swaps faces in so-called deepfake videos.) West and Bergstrom made their game in part to prepare the public for a phonier future. “We wanted people to be aware that you can create these kind of images,” West says.
The fakes aren’t flawless—the software doesn’t know the rules of human anatomy and struggles with backgrounds and earrings. On average, players could identify the reals nearly 60 percent of the time on their first try. The bad news: Even with practice, their performance peaked at around 75 percent accuracy. West hopes that studying how we fall for inhuman humans may lead to tools that can help unmask them; future research may include tracking people’s eye movements as they gaze upon unreal faces. Physiognomy-forging technology will only get better, and so will chatbot software that can put false words into fake mouths. Did you just swipe right on a bot? Ah well, the world is full of deceptions. WIRED hid a ringer on this very page: One of the faces pictured is, in fact, real. Can you find it? This is the face that fooled the most people—57 percent thought it was real.
Which one of these faces is real? (Answer at the bottom of the page.) More than half of the 100 most convincing fakes appear to be male, despite men and boys making up only about 40 percent of the full population of impostors, according to WIRED's analysis.
This face was the 100th most successful fake—it snuck past 47 percent of players.
Tom Simonite (@tsimonite) covers intelligent machines for WIRED.
This article appears in the July/August issue.
Subscribe now.
Bitcoin's climate impact is global.
The cures are local Fans are better than tech at organizing information online Gritty postcards from the Russian hinterland What does it mean when a product is “Amazon’s Choice” ? My glorious, boring, almost-disconnected walk in Japan 🎧 Things not sounding right? Check out our favorite wireless headphones , soundbars , and bluetooth speakers 📩 Want more? Sign up for our daily newsletter and never miss our latest and greatest stories Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg Senior Editor X Topics magazine-27.07-27.08 artificial intelligence machine learning neural networks Will Knight Will Bedingfield Matt Burgess Steven Levy Will Knight Niamh Rowe Will Knight Khari Johnson Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
