Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Tony Long Feb. 10, 1996: Checkmate! Save this story Save Save this story Save 1996: The first chess game between a human champion and a computer takes place, with international grandmaster Garry Kasparov losing to IBM's Deep Blue in Philadelphia.
Had Kasparov gone on to lose the whole match, it would have only stoked the fears of those believers in a dystopian world where man is ruled by his inventions.
But Kasparov, who became the world's youngest grand master in 1985 at the age of 22, recovered his equilibrium after his initial stumble. He won the next game , then drew twice before taking Games 5 and 6 to win the match, 4-2.
Kasparov lost a rematch to Deep Blue the following year -- his first match loss ever to any kind of opponent. Then, in 2001, he managed a 3-3 draw against Deep Junior, an entirely different software program.
Aside from their stunt value, these man-vs.-computer matches have changed the way that chess is played, and not necessarily for the better. "We don't work at chess anymore," complained grandmaster Evgeny Bareev. "We just look at the stupid computer, we follow the latest games and find small improvements. We have lost depth." Others, however, are more philosophical: "Cars can outrun us, but that hasn't stopped us from having foot races," said U.S. grandmaster Maurice Ashley. "Even if a computer is the best player on the planet, I'll still want to go around the corner, set up the chess pieces and try to kick your butt." Matt Blum assayed the significance of the first match on Wired.com's GeekDad blog in 2010: While nobody could have known at the time, this was the moment when machines truly began their conquest of Earth.
 Despite Kasparov rebounding from his first-game loss to beat Deep Blue in the match, the computer's win demonstrated the inevitability of the rise of artificially intelligent devices. When the upgraded Deep Blue won the rematch against Kasparov the following year, there were those who thought this presaged humanity's downfall, but they were largely scoffed at as conspiracy theorists.
So raise a glass in toast to our robot overlords... Did I say "overlords?" I meant " protectors.
" Source: Various Photo: Kasparov battles Deep Blue in 1997.
An earlier version of this article appeared on Wired.com Feb. 10, 2007.
See Also: Lego Chess Set Costs More Than a MacBook Air Nook Software Update Adds Web Browser, Chess Game Table: Chess and Card-Game Simulator for iPad Advanced Chess More Wired.com coverage of chess Jan. 5, 1996: Introducing the Cellphone Bomb Feb. 8, 1996: We (Mostly) Celebrate 24 Hours in Cyberspace April 3, 1996: Unabomber Nabbed in His Montana Hideout April 14, 1996: JenniCam Starts Lifecasting July 23, 1996: Stand By … High Definition TV Is on the Air Oct. 2, 1996: FOIA Law Ushers in Digital Democracy Nov. 19, 1996: Canadian Bridge Crosses 8 Miles of Icy Ocean Dec. 4, 1996: GM Delivers EV1 Electric Car Dec. 14, 1996: Big Holiday Bonus Shows Workers the Money Dec. 20, 1996: Science Loses Its Most Visible Public Champion Feb. 10, 1961: Moses Parts the Waters at Niagara Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg Topics 20th century Chess Computers and IT IBM video games This Day in Tech Virginia Heffernan Christopher Beam Steven Levy Will Knight Nika Simovich Fisher Samanth Subramanian Carlton Reid Vauhini Vara Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
