Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Brian Barrett Security MIT's Teaching AI How to Help Stop Cyberattacks Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Finding evidence that someone compromised your cyber defenses is a grind. Sifting through all of the data to find abnormalities takes a lot of time and effort, and analysts can only work so many hours a day. But an AI never gets tired, and can work with humans to deliver far better results.
A system called AI 2 , developed at MIT's Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, reviews data from tens of millions of log lines each day and pinpoints anything suspicious. A human takes it from there, checking for signs of a breach. The one-two punch identifies 86 percent of attacks while sparing analysts the tedium of chasing bogus leads.
That balance is critical. Relying entirely upon machine learning to spot abnormalities inevitably will reveal code oddities that aren’t actually intrusions. But humans can't hope to keep up with volume of work required to maximize security. Think of AI^2 ^as the best of both worlds---its name, according to the research paper, invokes the intersection of analyst intuition and an artificially intelligent system.
Most of AI 2 's work helps a company determine what's already happened to it can respond appropriately. The system highlights any typical signifiers of an attack. An extreme uptick in log-in attempts on an e-commerce site, for instance, might mean someone attempted a brute-force password attack. A sudden spike in devices connected to a single IP address suggests credential theft.
In fact, without human input, AI 2 wouldn’t be possible.
Other machine-learning systems dig through mountains of data looking for suspicious activity. But only AI 2 uses regular input from analysts to turn that mountain into a molehill. A machine lacks the expertise to do the job alone.
“You have to bring some contextual information to it,” says research lead Kalyan Veeramachaneni. That's the role of human analysts, who recognize external variables that might explain a given outlier. An obvious, and common, example: Companies often stress-test their systems, causing irregularities that everyone expects. An unsupervised AI has trouble discerning such a test from a legitimate threat. AI 2 can figure it out within weeks.
“On day one, when we deploy the system, it’s [only] as good as anyone else,” says Veeramachaneni. Instead of working in isolation, though, AI 2 shows a security expert the day's 200 most abnormal events. The analyst provides feedback, identifying legitimate threads. The system uses that information to fine-tune its monitoring. The more often this happens, the fewer outliers the AI identifies, improving its ability to identify actual threats.
“Essentially, the biggest savings here is that we’re able to show the analyst only up to 200 or even 100 events per day, which is a very tiny percentage of what happens,” says Veeramachaneni.
The human analyst provides feedback as to what was and wasn’t a legitimate threat, and the system uses that information to fine-tune its monitoring the next day.
None of this is theoretical. AI 2 honed its skills reviewing three months’ worth of log data from an unnamed e-commerce platform. The dataset included 40 million log lines each day, some 3.6 billion in all. After 90 days, AI 2 could detect 85 percent of attacks. Veeramachaneni says the unnamed site saw five or six legitimate threats a day during that time, and his system could pinpoint four or five.
Not a perfect sore, but Veeramachaneni says achieving an 85 percent detection rate using unsupervised machine learning would mean having analysts review thousands of events per day, not hundreds. Conversely, pulling 200 machine-identified events each day without an analyst's input yields a 7.9 percent success rate.
AI 2 also can help prevent attacks by building predictive models of what might happen the following day. If hackers use the same method over the course of a few days, a business can bolster security by, say, requiring additional confirmation from customers. If you know someone's trying to swim across your moat, you can throw a few more alligators in there.
Though the tech shows great promise, it cannot replace human analysts. Security is just too important, and the threats too varied. "The attacks are constantly evolving," Veeramachaneni says. "We need analysts to keep flagging new types of events. This system doesn’t get rid of analysts. It just augments them.” Science might one day provide an infallible security system. Until then, a combination of accuracy and efficiency remains the best anyone can hope for. And that, it turns out, means man and machine working together.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg Executive Editor, News X Topics cybersecurity machine learning MIT David Gilbert Lily Hay Newman Andrew Couts Justin Ling Andy Greenberg Lily Hay Newman Dell Cameron David Gilbert Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
