Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Enterprise analytics app maker Tidemark celebrates beta launch with new COO Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Are you looking to showcase your brand in front of the brightest minds of the gaming industry? Consider getting a custom GamesBeat sponsorship.
Learn more.
Tidemark first caught our eye last October when it launched out of stealth promising intelligent cloud-based mobile apps for enterprises. After two funding rounds and a lot of prep time, the company today finally launches and has a new chief operating officer –former OutlookSoft chief executive Phil Wilmington.
Tidemark targets Fortune 1,000 companies with mobile apps for financial planning, operational planning, and metrics management. The company says these apps will help companies with their decision processes by providing real-time information, better planning, and the capability to collaborate from anywhere. It wants to replace analytics solutions provided by Oracle, SAP, and IBM.
At the intersection of mobile, cloud, social, and “big data,” Tidemark sounds like someone put today’s biggest tech buzzwords into a hat and pulled out a few. Thankfully, the product stands to scrutiny with a CEO who has serious pedigree and prominent backers like Andreessen Horowitz and Greylock Partners.
Tidemark CEO Christian Gheorghe said he sees the company as a member of the next generation of cloud-based enterprise services, including Salesforce (ERP), Box (storage), and Workday (HR software). Gheorghe belongs in this disruptive bunch because he sold his company TIAN Software to OutlookSoft, which later became part of SAP. He then helped SAP with analytics products, but now he wants to disrupt the market he helped build with faster, better, cloud-ier applications. (Similar to what Dave Duffield has done with Workday.
) VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! New COO Wilmington will help Gheorghe complete his vision. Wilmington spent time as an exec at PeopleSoft and was CEO of OutlookSoft. Like Gheorghe, he likes the idea of shaking up an industry.
“Tidemark is an industry disruptor, helping companies unlock the power of analytics for everyone in the organization,” Wilmington said in a statement. “I am excited to join Christian and the team because the advances in cloud technology finally allow us to deliver customer success and real performance management, not promises.” The company describes its three HTML5 apps for performance management as “fast, modern, and smart.” The apps are designed with medium and large enterprises in mind and take advantage of multitenant cloud architectures. Tidemark’s apps are built on top of Verizon-owned Terremark’s infrastructure.
 HTML5 is the new lingua franca of the web.
Redwood City, Calif.-based Tidemark has raised $35 million in total funding from investors such as Greylock Partners, Andreessen Horowitz, Redpoint Ventures, and Dave Duffield. The company has 60 employees and customers include Pabst Brewing, Platinum Hospitality Management, and CEC Entertainment, the parent company of the Chuck E Cheese chain.
CloudBeat 2012 is assembling the biggest names in the cloud’s evolving story to learn about real cases of revolutionary cloud adoption. Unlike other cloud events, customers — the users of cloud technologies — will be front and center. Their discussions with vendors and other experts will give you rare insights into what really works, who’s buying what, and where the industry is going.
Register now and save 25 percent! The early-bird discount ends September 14.
Photo credit: Tidemark VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
