Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Dave Mosher Science Ears Could Make Better Unique IDs Than Fingerprints Save this story Save Save this story Save On a planet hosting 6.7 billion human beings, having proof you’re unique is of tantamount importance. The ear, it turns out, may be the best identification yet.
Through a new shape-finding algorithm called "image ray transform," which boasts 99.6 percent accuracy, according to a study presented at the IEEE Fourth International Conference on Biometrics Sept. 29, the outer ear may prove to be one of the most accurate and least intrusive ways to identify people.
Fingerprint databases of U.S. government agencies alone store the records of more than 100 million people, but prints can rub off or callous over during hard or repetitive labor. With the advent of computer vision, researchers and identification industries are seeking easier and more robust biometrics to get their hands on.
“When you’re born your ear is fully formed. The lobe descends a little, but overall it stays the same. It's a great way to identify people,” said Mark Nixon, a computer scientist at the University of Southampton. and leader of the research.
"There's real power in using the appearance of an ear for computer recognition, compared to facial recognition. It's roughly equivalent if not better," said computer scientist Kevin Bowyer of Notre Dame, who is pursuing his own ear-recognition technology and not involved with Nixon’s work. "If you’ve got a profile image for someone, this is a great way to use it." Recent technologies use computer vision to convert human features, such as faces and irises, even the gait of a person’s walk, into reliable alternatives to fingerprints. Nixon and his team have pursued using ears as one biometric for years, and through what he called a “blue-sky research effort,” his colleagues created the highly capable image-ray-transform algorithm.
The technology can identify an ear time after time with 99.6 percent accuracy. It works by unleashing a ray-producing algorithm on an image to seek out curved features. When a ray finds one, the software draws over the part and repeats the analysis. In a few hundred or thousand cycles, it cleanly paints the ear more than any other face structure.
“The rays fly around the image and get caught in tubular things. The helix, or outer edge, of an ear is a wonderful tube that rays keep hitting,” said Alastair Cummings, the Southampton University computer scientist who developed the algorithm. “There are dozens of ways of doing ear biometrics, but this is a very good one.” Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Business Why Teslas Totaled in the US Are Mysteriously Reincarnated in Ukraine Aarian Marshall From there, another program turns the curves into a unique set of numbers, something that could be used as an ear-based ID.
Nixon and Cummings acknowledged some limitations of the system, including hair covering the ears, less-than-ideal lighting conditions, and different IDs generated from different angles. And using the ear as a biometric isn’t without critics.
“I have seen no scientific proof that the ear doesn’t change significantly over time. People tend to believe notions like these, and they are repeated over time,” said Anil Jain, a computer scientist at Michigan State University who was not involved in the study. “ Fingerprinting has a history of 100 years showing that it works, unless you destroy your fingerprints or work in an industry that gives you calluses.” Using the ear is not about replacing existing biometrics such as fingerprints, Bowyer said. Rather, it’s about supplementing them, especially when it comes to catching crooks.
“It’s easy to say, ‘Hey there’s fingerprints, faces and irises, why do we need more?’ For some applications that’s a valid question,” he said. “But when you’re doing surveillance, where a person isn’t being cooperative for obvious reasons, you want anything you can get. If you have images of ears, it’s dumb to throw that away.” What’s more, he says, there really aren't studies proving the agelessness of any human biometric -- including fingerprints.
“Who over the age of 40 could think these things don’t age?” Bowyer joked. “Some have said ‘irises are for life,’ but in some of our lab’s work we’ve noticed degraded biometric performance even in those.” To address limitations of the approach, the team is looking to demonstrate that ears do hold up over time. In addition, the researchers hope to pair their new biometric with other computer-vision technologies, such as face recognition, to bolster its reliability. And if the algorithm can be made to work quickly in three dimensions, a fuzzy clip of a criminal walking by a security camera could be turned into grade-A courtroom evidence.
“We’ve shown we can use ears, but can we process data that comes from a sort of normal scenario? That’s the real challenge,” Nixon said.
Images: Alastair Cummings/Southampton University ( demo ) 1) A man's profile processed by the image-ray-transform algorithm, with a multicolored ray detecting part of his ear. 2) Original photograph fed into the algorithm.
See Also: Robot Teaches Itself to Smile Scientists Make Pattern Recognition More Human MRI Lie Detection to Get First Day in Court Requests to the Right Ear Are More Successful Than to the Left Ear Infections Could Cause Long-Term 'Lazy Ear' Secret Math of Fly Eyes Could Overhaul Robot Vision Follow us on Twitter @ davemosher and @ wiredscience , and on Facebook.
Topics computer science face recognition Swapna Krishna Hannah Ritchie Kate Yoder Ben Brubaker Rob Reddick Elizabeth Finkel Matt Simon Grace Browne Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
