Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts These virtual robot arms get smarter by training each other By Will Douglas Heaven archive page A virtual robot arm has learned to solve a wide range of different puzzles —stacking blocks, setting the table, arranging chess pieces—without having to be retrained for each task. It did this by playing against a second robot arm that was trained to give it harder and harder challenges.
Self play: Developed by researchers at OpenAI , the identical robot arms—Alice and Bob—learn by playing a game against each other in a simulation, without human input. The robots use reinforcement learning, a technique in which AIs are trained by trial and error what actions to take in different situations to achieve certain goals. The game involves moving objects around on a virtual tabletop. By arranging objects in specific ways, Alice tries to set puzzles that are hard for Bob to solve. Bob tries to solve Alice’s puzzles. As they learn, Alice sets more complex puzzles and Bob gets better at solving them.
Multitasking: Deep-learning models typically have to be retrained between tasks. For example, AlphaZero (which also learns by playing games against itself) uses a single algorithm to teach itself to play chess, shogi and Go—but only one game at a time. The chess-playing AlphaZero cannot play Go and the Go-playing one cannot play shogi. Building machines that really can multitask is a big unsolved problem on the road to more general AI.
AI dojo: One issue is that training an AI to multitask requires a vast number of examples. OpenAI avoids this by training Alice to generate the examples for Bob, using one AI to train another. Alice learned to set goals such as building a tower of blocks, then picking up it up and balancing it. Bob learned to use properties of the (virtual) environment, such as friction, to grasp and rotate objects.
Virtual reality: So far the approach has only been tested in a simulation but researchers at OpenAI and elsewhere are getting better at transferring models trained in virtual environments to physical ones. A simulation lets AIs churn through large datasets in a short amount of time, before being fine-tuned for real-world settings.
Overall ambition: The researchers say that their ultimate aim is to train a robot to solve any task that a person might ask it to. Like GPT-3, a language model that can use language in a wide variety of different ways, these robot arms are part of OpenAI’s overall ambition to build a multitasking AI. Using one AI to train another could be a key part of that.
hide by Will Douglas Heaven Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 Zeyi Yang How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Deep Dive Artificial intelligence This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI The tool, called Nightshade, messes up training data in ways that could cause serious damage to image-generating AI models.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 With just a few minutes of sample video and $1,000, brands never have to stop selling their products.
By Zeyi Yang archive page Driving companywide efficiencies with AI Advanced AI and ML capabilities revolutionize how administrative and operations tasks are done.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page Rogue superintelligence and merging with machines: Inside the mind of OpenAI’s chief scientist An exclusive conversation with Ilya Sutskever on his fears for the future of AI and why they’ve made him change the focus of his life’s work.
By Will Douglas Heaven archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
