Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts The AI hiring industry is under scrutiny—but it’ll be hard to fix By Angela Chen archive page computer The Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC) has asked the Federal Trade Commission to investigate HireVue , an AI tool that helps companies figure out which workers to hire.
What’s HireVue? HireVue is one of a growing number of artificial intelligence tools that companies use to assess job applicants. The algorithm analyzes video interviews, using everything from word choice to facial movements to figure out an “employability score” that is compared against that of other applicants. More than 100 companies have already used it on over a million applicants, according to the Washington Post.
What’s the problem? It’s hard to predict which workers will be successful from things like facial expressions. Worse, critics worry that the algorithm is trained on limited data and so will be more likely to mark “traditional” applicants (white, male) as more employable. As a result, applicants who deviate from the “traditional”—including people don’t speak English as a native language or who are disabled—are likely to get lower scores, experts say.
 Plus, it encourages applicants to game the system by interviewing in a way that they know HireVue will like.
What’s next? AI hiring tools are not well regulated, and addressing the problem will be hard for a few reasons.
—Most companies won’t release their data or explain how the algorithms work, so it’s very difficult to prove any bias. That’s part of the reason there have been no major lawsuits so far. The EPIC complaint, which suggests that HireVue’s promise violates the FTC’s rules against “unfair and deceptive” practices, is a start. But it’s not clear if anything will happen. The FTC has received the complaint but has not said whether it will pursue it.
—Other attempts to prevent bias are well-meaning but limited. Earlier this year, Illinois lawmakers passed a law that requires employers to at least tell job seekers that they’ll be using these algorithms, and to get their consent. But that’s not very useful. Many people are likely to consent simply because they don’t want to lose the opportunity.
—Finally, just like AI in health or AI in the courtroom , artificial intelligence in hiring will re-create society’s biases, which is a complicated problem. Regulators will need to figure out how much responsibility companies should be expected to shoulder in avoiding the mistakes of a prejudiced society.
hide by Angela Chen Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 Zeyi Yang How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Deep Dive Policy Three things to know about the White House’s executive order on AI Experts say its emphasis on content labeling, watermarking, and transparency represents important steps forward.
By Tate Ryan-Mosley archive page Melissa Heikkilä archive page How generative AI is boosting the spread of disinformation and propaganda In a new report, Freedom House documents the ways governments are now using the tech to amplify censorship.
By Tate Ryan-Mosley archive page Government technology is famously bad. It doesn’t have to be.
New York City is fixing the relationship between government and technology–and not in the ways you’d expect.
By Tate Ryan-Mosley archive page It’s shockingly easy to buy sensitive data about US military personnel A new report exposes the privacy and national security concerns created by data brokers. US senators tell MIT Technology Review the industry needs to be regulated.
By Tate Ryan-Mosley archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
