Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Lily Hay Newman Security To Fight Deepfakes, Researchers Built a Smarter Camera Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save One of the most difficult things about detecting manipulated photos , or "deepfakes," is that digital photo files aren't coded to be tamper-evident. But researchers from New York University's Tandon School of Engineering are starting to develop strategies that make it easier to tell if a photo has been altered, opening up a potential new front in the war on fakery.
Forensic analysts have been able to identify some digital characteristics they can use to detect meddling, but these indicators don't always paint a reliable picture of whatever digital manipulations a photo has undergone. And many common types of "post-processing," like file compression for uploading and sharing photos online, strip away these clues anyway.
But what if that tamper-resistant seal originated from the camera itself? The NYU team demonstrates that you could adapt the signal processors inside—whether it's a fancy DSLR or a regular smartphone camera—so they essentially place watermarks in each photo's code. The researchers propose training a neural network to power the photo development process that happens inside cameras, so as the sensors are interpreting the light hitting the lens and turning it into a high quality image, the neural network is also trained to mark the file with indelible indicators that can be checked later, if needed, by forensic analysts.
"People are still not thinking about security—you have to go close to the source where the image is captured," says Nasir Memon, one of the project researchers from NYU Tandon who specializes in multimedia security and forensics. "So what we’re doing in this work is we are creating an image which is forensics-friendly, which will allow better forensic analysis than a typical image. It's a proactive approach rather than just creating images for their visual quality and then hoping that forensics techniques work after the fact." The main thing consumers expect from cameras is ever-improving image quality and fidelity. So one main focus of the project was showing that incorporating machine learning into the image signal processing that goes on inside of a camera doesn't visibly detract from photo quality as it paves the way for tamper-resistant elements. And adding these features within the image-generation hardware itself means that by the time files are being stored in the camera's SD card or other memory—where they're potentially at risk of manipulation—they are already imbued with their tamper-evident seals.
The researchers mainly insert their watermarks into certain color frequencies, so they will persist through typical post-processing—like compression or brightness adjustments—but show modification if the content of an image is altered. Overall, the forensic-friendly additions improved image manipulation detection accuracy from about 45 percent to more than 90 percent.
Deepfakes have become a major concern as their use in disinformation campaigns, social media manipulation, and propaganda grows worldwide. And being able to reliably identify them is crucial to combatting false narratives. The NYU researchers, who will present their work at the June IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition in Long Beach, California, emphasize that there is no panacea for dealing with the problem. They suggest that foundational watermarking techniques like theirs would be most effective when used in combination with other methods for spotting fakes and forgeries.
Science SpaceX’s Starship Lost Shortly After Launch of Second Test Flight Ramin Skibba Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear 16 Early Black Friday Deals From Walmart Matt Jancer Business Why Teslas Totaled in the US Are Mysteriously Reincarnated in Ukraine Aarian Marshall "A lot of the research interest is in developing techniques to use machine learning to detect if something is real or fake," NYU's Memon says. "That's definitely something that needs to be done—we need to develop techniques to detect fake and real images—but it's also a cat and mouse game. Many of the techniques that you develop will eventually be circumvented by reasonably well-equipped, reasonably smart adversaries." As with any security technology, though, the same could potentially be said about watermarking technology, even when the anti-tampering features are inserted during image creation.
"As the research and industrial communities consider this technology, I do think they should be wary of potential risks posed by anti-forensic attacks and adversarial machine learning," says Matthew Stamm, an information forensics researcher at Drexel University. "This technology is a very interesting and creative approach to watermark-based image security and opens up new ways for researchers to design watermarks and other security measures that could be added into images by a camera. But it’s feasible that an attacker might be able to create a deep learning network to remove these security artifacts, allow an image to be modified or falsified, then re-insert the security artifacts afterward." Stamm also points out that it's important to consider the privacy implications of adding a watermark to digital images. Depending on how such a system is implemented, the tamper-evident traces could create a way of tracking photo files or fingerprinting cameras. There are already other ways to do this, though, since every camera has unique sensor imperfections that can be used for identification. And watermarking schemes could prioritize privacy-preserving approaches.
For forensic watermarking to really make an impact on curbing deepfakes it would need to work on video also, something the researchers say they haven't broached yet, but that would be theoretically possible. And even just getting manufacturers to integrate such protections for still images would be challenging—the perennial hurdle of pushing security features. There would need to be a clear economic incentive for camera-makers to overhaul their image signal processors. Drexel's Stamm points out, though, that watermarking technology could make a big impact even if it is only implemented in certain cameras used in high-sensitivity situations—like cameras used to take crime scene photos. And as deepfakes become an increasingly ubiquitous threat, the motivation for universal adoption may be there sooner than you think.
Moondust could cloud our lunar ambitions As social VR grows, users are the ones building its worlds Bluetooth's complexity has become a security risk I'm mad as hell about Square's shady automatic emails Inside China's massive surveillance operation 🏃🏽‍♀️ Want the best tools to get healthy? Check out our Gear team's picks for the best fitness trackers , running gear (including shoes and socks ), and best headphones.
📩 Get even more of our inside scoops with our weekly Backchannel newsletter Senior Writer X Topics cameras research Andrew Couts Justin Ling Andy Greenberg Lily Hay Newman Dell Cameron David Gilbert Lily Hay Newman Tom Bennett Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
