Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Adrienne So Gear I Didn’t Want to Love Zooming on My Facebook Portal—but I Do Photograph: Facebook Save this story Save Save this story Save With all the issues facing us today—a global pandemic, election interference, climate change—don’t we all have better things to do than fuss over how we look during conference calls? And yet, despite being nowhere near death (I think), it takes a remarkable amount of effort to make me look alive and healthy for a 30-minute e-face to e-face meeting.
There are so many things to figure out. Is the lighting right? Is the camera positioned properly? Can they hear me OK? Your computer is a machine with vast capabilities, but it probably doesn’t have the best camera, speaker, or microphone. For months now, we’ve all been staring at each other in our makeshift spare bedrooms or closets or garages, filming our own separate versions of The Blair Witch Project.
 Even the most tech-savvy of my colleagues loom like giant, hairy shadows in our Zooms.
There’s now a booming industry of gadgets for turning a computer into a home video studio: webcams, laptop stands, speakers, lights. But I have a solution that will be cheaper, easier, and probably work better: Just Zoom on a Facebook Portal.
I was deeply conflicted when I wrote my review of the Portal last year, given Facebook’s long history of queasy-making decisions.
 I couldn’t in good conscience express unqualified support of a company that has done pretty much everything it can to make its users deeply distrustful, not when I myself use Facebook only very circumspectly.
However, it turns out that I will happily throw all my principles out the window if Facebook will alleviate the torture of long-distance grandparent hell. The Portal is still the only device that will keep my 3- and 5-year-old on a video call with their relatives for longer than five seconds. My parents call once a week and use the Portal's built-in Story Time feature, reading Todd Parr's The Underwear Book to my kids as augmented-reality underpants appear on my mom's head on the screen. Watching this all happen makes me feel … happy, sad, and weirdly triumphant? It's a feeling unique to 2020 parenthood that describes the sensation of having salvaged the smallest speck of joy out of the wreck of this year.
About a month ago, Facebook announced the Portal was going to start offering support for videoconferencing services —mainly Zoom, but also WebEx, BlueJeans, and GoToMeeting. Initially, I didn’t really want to repurpose the Sticky Kid Story Time Thing for work. But then I had a day of three consecutive hours’ worth of meetings and thought, well, the Portal couldn’t make this any worse.
I have the 10-inch Portal (there’s also a mini, large, and TV version). It’s about the size of a digital picture frame and nestles naturally on the left side of my laptop on its stand. It took forever (OK, half an hour) to update the software, find the Zoom app, and log in before my meeting. It’s also a minor pain point to manually tap in the meeting code on the Portal's touchscreen; if I was on my computer, I could simply click a link. But now, I am a convert.
My coworkers noticed the change immediately. The Portal's standout feature is its ability to recognize humans in the shot and move the camera around to keep faces clearly visible. On the other end of the line, the effect is eye-catching. It’s hard to not notice your one coworker in a corner of the gallery view, chugging coffee, knees tucked up in the kitchen chair as the camera slowly pans and zooms to keep her perfectly in frame while everyone else’s head and shoulders remain totally still.
Is this why videoconferencing is so tiring? Unless you’re an Instagram influencer, you’re probably not accustomed to looking at yourself constantly, or having to stay put in the same position for hours at a time. Until I didn’t have to do it anymore, I didn’t realize how hard it is to keep yourself properly lit and positioned in the frame. It’s exhausting.
Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft But a Portal can keep a 5-year-old framed and audible while she's running around the living room, showing grandparents her Lego sets and jumping on the couch. Compared to that, making you, a mostly stationary adult human, look good is a piece of cake. The Portal team says it worked with award-winning filmmakers to optimize the auto-pan and zoom features of the device, and it shows.
Talking or attending meetings just feels so much more natural when I don’t have to worry about my lighting, being at the correct angle, or even maintaining eye contact. I can do something as ordinary as sit comfortably in my chair, knowing that the Portal will find the correct framing for me.
And let’s talk about sound: No more headphones. No more adjusting the volume on your computer’s irritating, tinny speaker system, or plugging in your enormous Yeti microphone. The Portal has a big, round, hand-sized speaker on the back that sounds great , and a four-microphone array that will pick you up even if you’ve turned your head away to chug your 47th coffee.
When the Portal first came out two years ago , the idea of a device dedicated solely to video calling was a little suspect. Our desks are already littered with camera-fied phones, tablets and computers. Do you really need a specific device just to call people? A device that has to be plugged in? I don’t think any of us could have anticipated that many, if not all, of our social interactions would soon take place online. Months deep into the Covid-19 pandemic , owning a dedicated videophone makes as much sense as owning a dedicated refrigerator or a dedicated stove. Single-use devices make a lot of sense if they’re good at what they do, and if you use them a lot.
I also used to think the Portal was expensive. But now there’s a Portal Mini for $149, and tell me: How much have you spent, or are considering spending, on laptop stands, ring lights, mics, noise-canceling headphones, or other gadgets to make videoconferencing work better—and that probably won’t work as well as a Portal, anyway? Just now, I participated in a videoconference where someone said I looked like a well-lit Laura Linney narrating a documentary, and not like a troll crouching at a desk in my dim garage while my children eat lunch in our open-plan house (another pandemic mistake, but that’s for another time). Who can put a price on that? Just make sure you wipe the fingerprints off before the important company-wide all-hands.
📩 Want the latest on tech, science, and more? Sign up for our newsletters ! The West’s infernos are melting our sense of how fire works Amazon wants to “win at games.” So why hasn’t it ? Publishers worry as ebooks fly off libraries' virtual shelves Your photos are irreplaceable.
Get them off your phone How Twitter survived its big hack— and plans to stop the next 🎮 WIRED Games: Get the latest tips, reviews, and more 🏃🏽‍♀️ Want the best tools to get healthy? Check out our Gear team’s picks for the best fitness trackers , running gear (including shoes and socks ), and best headphones Senior Associate Reviews Editor X Topics Shopping smart home parenting AR Facebook Brenda Stolyar David Nield Jaina Grey Scott Gilbertson Scott Gilbertson Adrienne So Reece Rogers Brenda Stolyar WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
