Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Simon Hill Gear Review: Wyze Video Doorbell Pro Facebook X Email Save Story Photograph: Wyze Facebook X Email Save Story $94 at Wyze If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Rating: 7/10 Open rating explainer The Wyze Video Doorbell Pro isn’t the best doorbell you can buy. The camera doesn’t offer the greatest picture; the tinny sound is below par; and with a chunky plastic design, it certainly is not the best-looking device. Why are we here then, you may ask? Because you can snag this doorbell for less than $100, and it nails everything you need a video doorbell to do.
If you are not intent on saving money, there is no good reason to consider this doorbell. Check out our Best Video Doorbell Cameras guide and pick something better. That said, there is a lot on offer here for the money. It comes with a chime, offers multiple installation options, provides an expansive view of your porch, and supports two-way audio. It also boasts smart detection alerts with a Cam Plus subscription , which is an essential extra at $2/month or $15/year.
Photograph: Wyze While the curved black and white plastic design resembles a chunky candybar and won't win any beauty contests, it’s not offensive. I have tested uglier doorbells (Swann and Ezviz, I’m looking at you). Like several things about the Video Doorbell Pro, Wyze has done just enough.
Installation is easy. You can screw in the doorbell mount or use adhesive (handy for renters), and you can angle it if necessary. You can also wire this doorbell into the mains or use the internal battery, so Wyze has covered all the bases. The plug-in chime in the box can't trigger your regular chime, but it does act as a Wi-Fi extender. That's handy for folks who don’t have their router near the front door.
Wyze via Simon Hill Arguably the most crucial element of a video doorbell is its picture. At 1440p, it is sharp enough to pick up details and to recognize familiar faces. The WDR (wide dynamic range) handles mixed lighting quite well, though strong sunlight can lead some areas to appear blown out.
Wyze Video Doorbell Pro Rating: 7/10 $94 at Wyze If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED The square 150-degree view is enough to cover most of my porch. There is a blind spot directly below the doorbell, but the Eufy Video Doorbell Dual ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ) is the only alternative I’ve tested that doesn’t have the same problem. Unfortunately, that expansive view comes at the cost of a pronounced fish-eye effect that almost makes you feel like you’re looking through a peephole. I like that I can zoom in, but there is pixelation, even at the highest video quality.
The audio is good enough to get an idea of what is going on, and you can have a two-way conversation, albeit with some lag. But it does sound tinny, and any distant noises sound distorted. I like the quick responses—you can tap to tell visitors you’ll be there shortly or tell a courier to leave a package, but it would be nice to have the option to record custom responses in your own voice.
Wyze via Simon Hill Testing a variety of scenarios, I have been impressed with the accuracy and responsiveness of the Wyze Video Doorbell Pro. It never missed a visitor, the chime triggered immediately on button presses, and alerts came through to my phone relatively swiftly. There was some delay when I was away from home and some occasional lag, but Wi-Fi or data signal strength is a factor wherever you are.
Loading the live view takes between three and five seconds. I like the clear timeline underneath that shows events as blocks. Video is stored in the cloud, and playback is quick, provided you have a decent connection. You can set sensitivity and create a detection zone to reduce false positives.
With a Cam Plus subscription, you get smart detection and can choose when notifications should trigger. The smart detection AI can accurately determine whether a person, pet, vehicle, package, or some combination is at your door, and video events sport the relevant icons. There is support for Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa too. I found the doorbell feed relatively quick to load on a Nest Hub (it compared favorably with the Eufy).
You get one month of Cam Plus free with the doorbell. Without it, there is a 5-minute cooldown between recordings and a 12-second limit on videos. You get free cloud storage, but there is no local storage option. It also enables smart detection and the option to filter alerts. If you don't have a subscription, any motion will trigger alerts. Without the subscription, the limits on the camera would be a deal breaker for me. Thankfully, it only costs $2 per month, or $15 ($1.25/month) if you pay for a year up front.
Another question with the Wyze Video Doorbell Pro is the battery life. Wyze says up to six months, but my testing suggests more like six weeks. My porch is quite busy, and I have set it to the highest quality with no cooldown and up to 30 seconds for recordings, so your mileage may vary. You also have to remove the doorbell to charge it. Wired doorbells generally have better performance, so it's much better to wire it in if you can.
My final concern is Wyze's lax attitude toward security and software updates. For three years, the company did not fix a major bug that may have let attackers remotely access videos and other images stored on device memory cards. It would have required a local network breach, which is unlikely (here’s the Wyze response ), but still. Privacy-conscious folks may also balk at the cloud-only video storage, although Wyze has stated that it won’t share footage without a warrant or court order.
Then there’s the fact that Wyze discontinued support for the first version of the Wyze Cam shy of its fifth birthday, giving customers scant notice. Sadly, none of this is especially unusual for the industry, and Wyze has beefed up its security team since, but it may still give you pause.
Ultimately, the Wyze brand is all about value. At $94 plus shipping, the Video Doorbell Pro delivers on that front with an impressive range of features and solid performance. It easily surpasses the other budget video doorbells I have tested, so for folks on a strict budget, I don’t see a better option right now.
Wyze Video Doorbell Pro Rating: 7/10 $94 at Wyze If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED $94 at Wyze Contributor X Topics smart home security camera Shopping review Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
