Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Brenda Stolyar Julian Chokkattu Gear The Best iPad to Buy (and a Few to Avoid) Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Is Now a Good Time to Buy? Read more Best for Most People $270 at Amazon The Awkward Choice $449 at Apple Best for Portability $469 at Amazon Buying an iPad should be simple. You just get whatever’s new, right? If only. Apple sells four main iPad models, each with its own strengths. In addition, a growing number of older iPads are floating around the eBays of the world. Since all of these devices look pretty much the same, it’s important to know what you’re buying and what you should pay for it. This guide covers the best iPad models available right now, what’s coming up, the important differences between models, and the old models that exist (including the ones you shouldn’t buy at any price). We also talk about which Apple Pencil is right for you.
Be sure to check out all our buying guides , including the Best iPad Accessories , Best iPhones , Best iPhone 15 Cases , Best Tablets , and Best MacBooks.
Updated October 2023: We’ve added a section that breaks down the different Apple Pencil models and added information on rumored iPads.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get WIRED for just $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com , full Gear coverage, and subscriber-only newsletters. Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Photograph: Apple Is Now a Good Time to Buy? A New Mini Approaches If you need a new tablet, any of the current iPads are fine to buy, however, if you're after the iPad Mini, it might be worth holding off.
Rumors suggest Apple is planning on launching a new iPad Mini either this year or early 2024. The Mini will feature the same design but will have a faster processor. It hasn't been updated since 2021, making it one of the oldest iPads in the entire lineup right now, so it's worth waiting for the new model. The same rumors also suggest a new base iPad model that will also feature a minor spec bump. However, since the 10th-gen iPad is still fairly new, it's fine to buy.
We've also seen talk about an updated iPad Air with two size options on the way in 2024, and updates to the iPad Pro lineup, but the current models are still recent and perfectly great tablets to buy. It's worth reiterating these are rumors , so nothing is concrete.
Photograph: Apple Best for Most People Apple iPad (2021, 9th Gen) Despite the newer 10th-generation iPad, we still think the ninth-generation iPad ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ) from 2021 is the best iPad for most people. It's the most affordable (and often dips as low as $250). It has the same shape and size as its predecessors, so there are tons of compatible accessories, including the first-generation Apple Pencil and Apple's Smart Keyboard.
 It retains the classic Home button with Touch ID plus thick borders around the 10.2-inch screen.
The A13 Bionic chip, which debuted on the iPhone 11, makes it one of the most powerful tablets for the price, and there are other welcome upgrades, like 64 GB of storage and True Tone, which adjusts the color temperature of the display to match the ambient lighting to look more natural. The real highlight is the front camera, which is 12 megapixels and supports Center Stage, the iPad Pro feature that moves the camera around during video calls so you always stay in the frame. (The camera placement is still a bit awkward.) It's worth highlighting that this iPad doesn't have a fully laminated display. That means there's an air gap between the screen and the glass, which can make interactions with the Apple Pencil feel a smidge imprecise.
$270 at Amazon $329 at Apple $330 at Target $330 at Best Buy Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Photograph: Apple The Awkward Choice Apple iPad (2022, 10th Gen) Apple has modernized its most basic iPad ( 7/10, WIRED Review ). It has uniform slim bezels around a larger 10.9-inch Liquid Retina (IPS LCD) display. There's finally a USB-C port instead of Lightning, so you can charge it with the same cable as you use to charge a MacBook (or iPhone 15). The cellular model now supports 5G, and like on the iPad Air, the Touch ID sensor is integrated into the power button that sits on the top edge of the slate. The rear camera has been upgraded to 12 megapixels, instead of 8 megapixels. But, perhaps most importantly, the 12-MP selfie camera has been moved to the center of the iPad (in landscape mode), so you’ll no longer have to uncomfortably stare to the side during video calls.
It's powered by Apple's A14 Bionic chip—the same that's in the iPhone 12—which Apple claims delivers 20 percent faster performance and a 10 percent bump in graphics over the ninth-gen model; it never felt sluggish in our testing. But we have gripes. This supposedly basic iPad now costs $120 more, starting at $449. It still doesn't have a fully laminated display, and you also don't get second-gen Apple Pencil support—it only works with the first-gen stylus; now that the Lightning port is gone, you need to use an adapter to recharge the Pencil. (It's included if you buy a new first-gen Apple Pencil , but if you already have one, the adapter is $9.
) This iPad supports the Magic Keyboard Folio (and the original Smart Folio case ), but we don't recommend spending nearly half the price of the tablet on a keyboard case. Read our Best iPad Accessories guide for cheaper alternatives.
$449 at Apple $400 at Amazon $450 at Target Photograph: Apple Best for Portability Apple iPad Mini (2021, 6th Gen) Note: A new iPad Mini is expected to arrive either this year or in early 2024. We suggest waiting, but if you really want a mini tablet right now, this will do the job just fine.
The iPad Mini looks like no iPad Mini that came before ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ). Apple's 2021 refresh mimics the design of the iPad Pro, with slimmer bezels around the 8.3-inch screen. It's a little shorter than its predecessor, and its compact size makes it the best slate to take with you everywhere. You might even be able to fit it into your cargo pants pocket. It loses the Home button but doesn't adopt Face ID—like on the iPad Air and 10th-gen iPad, Touch ID is baked into the power button. It has sub-6 5G connectivity if you add a cellular plan, but best of all is the USB-C charging port, so you can recharge it with your MacBook charger.
With the A15 Bionic processor (released in 2021 with the iPhone 13), it can handle pretty much any intensive app or game. It has improved cameras on the front and back (plus Center Stage on the selfie cam) and second-generation Apple Pencil support , so the stylus magnetically attaches to the edge and charges simultaneously. It won't roll off the desk! The iPad Mini has frequently dropped to $400, so try to catch it on sale.
$469 at Amazon $499 at Apple $500 at Target $500 at Best Buy Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Photograph: Apple Best Upgrade Apple iPad Air (2022, 5th Gen) Even the most basic iPad is plenty powerful for most tasks, but the 2022 iPad Air ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ) steps things up with the M1 processor—the same that powers the MacBook Air from 2020. The modern design remains unchanged from the 2020 iPad Air , with the same 10.9-inch LCD screen, slim bezels, USB-C port, and Touch ID built into the top power button. It packs support for the second-generation Apple Pencil ( Amazon ) and the Smart and Magic Keyboard.
 What's new? Apple added 5G support (if you opt for the cellular version), a selfie camera with a higher-resolution 12-megapixel sensor, as well as support for Center Stage, which ensures the camera stays on you if you're moving around a room during video calls.
This tablet is lighter and nearly as compact as the cheapest iPad, but you get a larger screen—making this a nicer slate for getting work done. That said, it's still not as easy to multitask on iPadOS as it is using a MacBook , and the first-party accessories add up to make it quite expensive.
$559 at Amazon $599 at Apple $600 at Target Photograph: Apple The Ultimate iPad Apple iPad Pro (2022, 6th-Gen 12.9 Inch and 4th-Gen 11 Inch) Apple's iPad Pro tablets ( 7/10, WIRED Review ) are the largest it offers. There are two sizes: 11 inches and 12.9 inches. The latter is in a class of its own. You just can't find many other large slates, and the size is especially nice if you plan to make it your canvas with the Apple Pencil.
 Even more distinctive is the display. The 12.9-incher is the only iPad to use Apple's mini LED display backlighting technology. It's still LCD, but it adds thousands more LEDs to illuminate the screen in zones, delivering better contrast, dynamic range, and higher brightness. It's an excellent display.
The 2022 models use the same M2 chip that's inside the new MacBook Air and Mac Mini.
 The software still needs to catch up to make use of all that power, but improvements in iPadOS 16 (like Stage Manager , which allows you to adjust app windows and group them together) make these machines more versatile. These are the only iPads with Face ID, ProMotion—which offers a 120-Hz screen refresh rate for smoother scrolling—four speakers for better sound quality, and more microphones to pick up your voice more clearly. It also packs Center Stage on the front-facing camera, while the rear camera is joined by an ultrawide sensor for snapping sweeping landscapes and a lidar sensor for augmented reality features. There's an exclusive Hover Mode for the second-gen Apple Pencil too; you'll see a preview of what the stylus will do when you hover it over the screen, which is handy when you're mixing watercolors and want to see a preview before you tap the glass. It's compatible with the Magic Keyboard and the Smart Keyboard.
Unless you really need the M2 chip and Apple Pencil hover feature, we recommend saving your money and opting for the 12.9-inch iPad Pro with M1 from 2021 instead. But that's only if you can find it for $950 or under.
$799 at Apple (11 Inch) $1,099 at Apple (12.9 Inch) $799 at Best Buy (11 Inch) $1,049 at Amazon (12.9 Inch) Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Photograph: Apple Exclusive iPadOS Features Some Features Require an M1 or M2 Chip With iPadOS 16 and iPadOS 17 , there are a few features only available on M1 and/or M2-powered iPad models, while others are exclusive to the iPad Pro. The iPad Air (2022, 5th gen), 12.9-inch iPad Pro (2021, 5th gen), and 11-inch iPad Pro (2021, 3rd gen) have an M1 chip, while the 12.9-inch iPad Pro (2022, 6th gen) and 11-inch iPad Pro (2022, 4th gen) have an M2 chip. Below, we break down which features are available on what iPad model. Be sure to also check out our iPadOS 17 feature roundup.
Reference Mode: Available on the 12.9-inch iPad Pro with M1 or M2.
Reference Mode allows you to use the tablet as a reference monitor to ensure color accuracy and consistent image quality when editing photos or videos with a secondary display.
Stage Manager: Available on iPads with M1 and M2 and older iPad Pro models (2018 onward) with the A12X and A12Z chips.
 For a desktop-like multitasking experience, Stage Manager allows you to resize windows, overlap them, and group them together. You'll also see recently used apps and windows appear on the left side of your screen.
External Display Support: Available on iPads with M1 and M2.
When using Stage Manager, you can also connect the iPad Pro and iPad Air to an external display with resolutions up to 6K. That way, instead of mirroring the iPad to the display, you can access four apps on the external display and four apps on the tablet.
Virtual Memory Swap: Available on iPads with M1 and M2.
If you're in need of more memory for RAM-intensive apps, Virtual Memory Swap will increase the available memory for all your apps and provide up to 16 GB for more taxing apps. If you're using an M1-powered iPad Air, this feature is only available on the 256-GB version.
Apple Pencil Hover: Available on the 11-inch and 12.9-inch iPad Pro with M2.
Using the second-generation Apple Pencil, you can hover the stylus millimeters above the screen and see a preview of what will happen before touching the display. For example, with a third-party graphic editing app like Pixelmator, hovering allows you to cycle through presets to see a live preview, or you can hover over a cropped photo to see the original image.
Photograph: Apple Which Apple Pencil Should You Buy? Apple Pencil (First Gen, USB-C, Second Gen) The Apple Pencil is a must-have for any iPad owner who takes a lot of notes or likes to draw. (You can even use it to sign documents.) iPadOS also has handwriting support within certain search fields and apps (like Notes), so you don't need to switch to the keyboard every time you want to type. Apple recently debuted a new Pencil, so now there are three to choose from. Here are the differences: Apple Pencil (1st-gen) for $99: The first-gen Pencil is quite old at this point but still functions well and includes pressure sensitivity (the lines get thicker as you press down harder on the screen) and tilt sensitivity (for shading). Unlike the other two Apple Pencils, this one has a glossy finish instead of matte (if that matters), and it also is completely rounded, so it has a tendency to roll off a slanted surface. There are no magnets, so you can't stick it to the tablet for safekeeping. It has a Lightning connector, so to charge it, you'll have to remove the cap and plug it into the iPad's charging port (if your iPad still has a Lightning port, you can buy a USB-C adapter ). It's compatible with the iPad (6th gen and later), iPad Air (3rd gen), iPad Mini (5th gen), iPad Pro 12.9-inch (1st and 2nd gen), iPad Pro 10.5-inch, and iPad Pro 9.7-inch.
Apple Pencil (USB-C) for $79: Apple's new USB-C Apple Pencil is a bit perplexing. It doesn't come with pressure sensitivity, so it's better suited for note-takers rather than artists. It can attach magnetically to the sides of an iPad, so you don't need to find a place to store it, however, it doesn't support wireless charging, so you'll have to pair and charge it via USB-C. It does support Hover Mode, which allows you to preview what will happen before touching the display, but this is exclusive to the M2-powered iPad Pro. It's compatible with iPad (10th gen), iPad Air (4th and 5th gen), iPad Mini (6th gen), iPad Pro 11-inch (1st gen and later), and iPad Pro 12.9-inch (3rd gen and later).
Apple Pencil (2nd-gen) for $129: This is the most feature-packed and, therefore, the most expensive. It comes with all the same capabilities as the 1st-gen and USB-C versions, plus wireless pairing and charging (it'll charge when it magnetically sticks to the top edge of supported iPads). It also adds a double tap feature that lets you quickly switch between tools by tapping on the Apple Pencil twice. It's compatible with the iPad Air (4th gen and later), iPad Mini (6th gen), iPad Pro 11-inch (1st gen and later), and the 12.9-inch (3rd gen and later).
$99 at Apple (First Gen) $79 at Apple (USB-C) $129 at Apple (Second Gen) Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Photograph: Apple Which iPad Do You Own? How to Figure Out Your iPad Model There are tons of iPads out in the world, and it can be tough to figure out exactly what model you own if you're thinking of selling it or you're just looking for accessories and want to make sure they'll work with your iPad. Apple also doesn't name its slates sequentially as it does with the iPhone, only adding to the confusion. No matter. Finding your model is simple.
Look at the back of your iPad. Etched on the back cover, near where it says "Designed by Apple in California," should be a model number starting with the letter A.
Head to this website from Apple.
 Look for your corresponding model number, and that's it! You found your iPad model. (Pro tip: Use your browser's "Find in Page" function to type in your model number and find it quickly.) Accessory makers usually indicate which iPad a case, folio, or keyboard cover is designed to work with. If you see a retailer mentioning a specific generation, this is Apple's current lineup: iPad : 9th generation (2021) iPad : 10th generation (2022) iPad Mini : 6th generation (2021) iPad Air : 5th generation (2022) iPad Pro 11-inch : 4th generation (2022) iPad Pro 12.9-inch : 6th generation (2022) Photograph: Apple More Great iPad Accessories Upgrade Your Tablet If you're purchasing a new iPad, there are a variety of accessories you can buy to help you get the most out of your tablet. Below, we've highlighted some of our favorites, all of which you can find in our Best iPad Accessories guide.
Zugu Case for $50 : This is our favorite folio case for the iPad for multiple reasons. It's not only durable (complete with a rigid bumper), but it has a magnetized cover that stays shut and a flap that allows you to position the screen at eight different angles. The case is magnetic too, allowing you to stick it on the fridge securely. It's also reasonably priced, comes in an array of colors, and has a spot for your Apple Pencil.
Logitech Combo Touch (10th-gen) for $160: The Combo Touch comes with a built-in keyboard, trackpad, and kickstand, making it ideal for getting work done on your iPad. It's also detachable, so you can easily remove the keyboard when you don't need it. It connects via Apple's Smart Connector, meaning you never need to tinker with Bluetooth or bother charging it.
Paperlike Charcoal Folio Case ($70): Paperlike is known for its screen protector, but the company also offers a great case. It's designed to feel like a sketchbook, complete with a polyester fabric cover that feels lightweight and high-quality. You can also prop your iPad up at two different levels. It doesn't come with an Apple Pencil slot, but there is a large flap closure that keeps it from falling out. We tested it with the iPad Air , but it's also available for the iPad Pro (both sizes).
Apple Magic Trackpad 2 for $115: For a spacious trackpad, the Magic Trackpad 2 is a great choice. Instead of physical buttons, it has Force Touch sensors where you can feel different levels of pressure on the pad. With support for various iPadOS gestures, you won't have to touch the screen as much. It automatically pairs with your iPad via Bluetooth and recharges with the Lightning port.
Logitech K380 Bluetooth Keyboard for $30: If you prefer an external keyboard, it's hard to go wrong with the Logitech K380. It's lightweight and portable and can be connected to up to three devices via Bluetooth (with dedicated buttons to switch between them). The keyboard is powered by AAA batteries, which lasted us around four months, so you don't have to worry about carrying a charger around.
Twelve South HoverBar Duo 2.0 for $80: The HoverBar serves two purposes. You can mount it to the side of your bed, kitchen counter, or shelf (to view content comfortably and hands-free) or you can use the included stand at your desk. With the 2nd-gen version, you can now remove the arm from the clamp and attach it directly to the stand—making it easier to swap between both modes.
Twelve South StayGo Mini USB-C Hub for $60 : Regardless of the iPad model, ports are limited. This hub from Twelve South has an 85-watt USB-C port with passthrough charging, a USB-A port, an HDMI, and a headphone jack. If you have trouble fitting it on an iPad with a case, the included female USB-C-to-male-USB-C cable will fix this.
Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Photograph: Apple About Those Older Pros Should You Still Buy Them? Apple has always packed a little extra into its iPad Pro tablets. As we mentioned earlier, it's still totally fine to buy new (not refurbished) versions of the 2021 11-inch iPad Pro and the 12.9-inch iPad Pro , but try not to spend more than $600 and $950, respectively. The same goes for the 2020 11-inch iPad Pro and the 2020 12.9 incher , but avoid spending more than $500 and $700. Anything more and you may as well buy the latest. These models are all powerful and match the current Pro slates in many ways; they also work with the Magic Keyboard with Trackpad.
The older 2018 iPad Pro , 10.5-inch , 10-inch, and 13-inch iPad Pro tablets are not worth buying (if you can even find them). They're just too old.
Photograph: Apple For the Right Price … Apple iPad Air 3, iPad 2020, iPad Mini 5 Apple no longer sells the iPad Air (2020) , the iPad Mini 5 (2019), or the 10.2-inch iPad (2020), but if you find them refurbished or new, they'll still serve you well. Don't expect any of them to be your forever iPad, but they should last for a couple of years, at least. The latter two are compatible with the first-generation Apple Pencil, while the iPad Air supports the second-gen stylus. The Air and iPad also work with Apple's Smart Keyboard. Try not to pay more than $200 for the 2020 iPad, $250 for the iPad Mini 5, or more than $350 for the iPad Air 4. If you go any higher, you may as well buy the latest models. (They'll serve you much longer.) Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Photograph: Apple Avoid These iPads! Apple iPad 1-7, iPad Mini 1-4, Original iPad Air 1-2 Just don’t. Yes, money is tight, but your sanity is important. There’s a chance an older iPad could perform decently, but unless someone is giving you one, try to hunt for a newer model. Many of the older iPads no longer receive software updates, and they'll seem quite slow compared to your phone and your computer.
The Mini 1 through 4 and iPad 1 through 7 have low-resolution, pixelated screens or are just too old. Forget buying one of the old 2014 iPad Air 1 or 2015 Air 2—those are too long in the tooth. Peruse our Best Tablets guide for ideas if you don't want to spend a lot. If you’re buying something for a child to use, our guide to the Best Kids' Tablets has good options with kid-friendly features and parental controls.
Product Writer & Reviewer X Reviews Editor X Topics apple iPad buying guides Shopping tablets Julian Chokkattu Julian Chokkattu Scott Gilbertson Scott Gilbertson Julian Chokkattu Simon Hill Julian Chokkattu Medea Giordano WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
