Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Boone Ashworth Gear What Is Ray Tracing? The Latest Gaming Buzzword Explained Ray tracing is a rendering technique that gives rays of light a natural and lifelike appearance. It's used in videogames and in computer-generated scenes in movies.
CD Projekt Red Save this story Save Save this story Save Do you like games? Do you like jargon? Well, then you’ll love ambient occlusion, morphological anti-aliasing, adaptive vertical synchronization, and real-time ray tracing.
All of the above were at one time the latest obtuse term for some complicated technology that’s been hyped as the next leap in gaming graphics. Except now, the last one might actually be truly revolutionary. Ray tracing achieved buzzword status at this week’s Electronic Entertainment Expo. Game announcements made by Microsoft, Nvidia, and AMD at the big gaming show were peppered with promises that their upcoming releases will bring this miraculous technology into our homes.
“I think it’s paradigm shifting,” says AJ Christensen, a visualization programmer at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications. “There’s a lot of stuff that we’ve been waiting to be able to do. The imagination far precedes the technology, and I think a lot of people are excited and waiting for it.” So what makes ray tracing so potentially—ahem— game changing? Let’s break it down.
Simply put, ray tracing is a technique that makes light in videogames behave like it does in real life. It works by simulating actual light rays, using an algorithm to trace the path that a beam of light would take in the physical world. Using this technique, game designers can make virtual rays of light appear to bounce off objects, cast realistic shadows, and create lifelike reflections.
First conceptualized in 1969, ray tracing technology has been used for years to simulate realistic lighting and shadows in the film industry. But even today, the technology requires considerable computing power.
“A game needs to run 60 frames per second, or 120 frames per second, so it needs to compute each frame in 16 milliseconds,” says Tony Tamasi, vice president of technical marketing at graphics card developer Nvidia. “Whereas a typical film frame is pre-rendered, and they can take eight or 12 or 24 hours to render a single frame.” This newfound excitement around ray tracing comes just as home gaming hardware is on the cusp of being able to process lighting effects in real time. The graphics chips that will go into the next generation of gaming PCs and videogame consoles should have the rendering power to produce ray-traced scenes on the fly. When that happens, it could result in a tectonic shift for visuals in gaming.
If you look at the way light works in videogames now, it might seem like all the elements are there: reflections, shadows, bloom, lens flare. But all that is just sophisticated trickery.
 Programmers can pre-render light effects (even with some ray tracing), but these are baked into the scene—essentially just packaged animations that always play out the same way. These effects can look quite convincing, but they’re not dynamic.
“The problem with that is that it’s completely static,” Tamasi says. “Unless you render in real time, the lighting is just going to be wrong.” Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Gear The Best Black Friday Tech Deals Nena Farrell If the player alters the environment by—for example—blasting a hole through a wall, the light in the scene won’t change to stream through that hole unless the developers have specifically planned for that possibility. With real-time ray tracing, the light would adjust automatically.
In real life, light comes to you. Waves made up of countless little photons shoot out of a light source, bounce across and through a variety of surfaces, then smack you right in the eyeballs. Your brain then interprets all these different rays of light as one complete picture.
Ray tracing functions nearly the same way, except that everything generally moves in the opposite direction. Inside the software, ray-traced light begins at the viewer (from the camera lens, essentially) and moves outward, plotting a path that bounces across multiple objects, sometimes even taking on their color and reflective properties, until the software determines the appropriate light source(s) that would affect that particular ray. This technique of simulating vision backward is far more efficient for a computer to handle than trying to trace the rays from the light source. After all, the only light paths that need to be rendered are the ones that fit into the user’s field of view. It takes far less computing power to display what’s in front of you than it would to render the rays emitted from all sources of light in a scene.
Still, that’s not to say it’s easy. “Thousands of billions of photons enter your eye every second,” says the NCSA's Christensen. “That’s way more than the number of calculations a computer can do per second … so there’s a lot of optimizing and efficiency and hacking that needs to happen in order to even begin to make something look realistic.” Rather than try to map out every single ray of light, the solution for developers at Nvidia is to trace only a select number of the most important rays, then use machine learning algorithms to fill in the gaps and smooth everything out. It’s a process called “denoising.” “Rather than shooting hundreds or thousands of rays per pixels, we’ll actually shoot a few or maybe a few dozen,” Tamasi says. “So we use different classes of denoisers to assemble the final image.” Real-time ray tracing is already here—kind of. If you have a PC that can handle it, it’s available in a few current games such as Battlefield V , Metro Exodus , and Shadow of the Tomb Raider , as well as upcoming titles like Cyberpunk 2077 and Wolfenstein: Youngblood.
Nvidia introduced ray-tracing capabilities last year, with the release of its RTX graphics card line. So your PC would need one of those to properly take advantage of the technology. Current consoles, like the Xbox One and Playstation 4, don’t have the hardware to pull it off.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Gear The Best Black Friday Tech Deals Nena Farrell For those of us unwilling or unable to cough up between $350 and $1,500 for a graphics card, ray tracing will also be supported by the next generation of game consoles, specifically the Playstation 5 and Microsoft’s mysteriously named Xbox One successor, Project Scarlett.
The potential might be exciting, but it will still be a few years before the tech becomes standard. Real-time ray tracing is still in its adolescence and has proven to be a little temperamental.
 And as the hardware improves, developers and designers will have to keep up.
“It’s a new tool in the toolbox,” Tamasi says. “We have to learn to use that new tool properly. There’s going to be a whole new class of techniques that people develop.” Jigsaw bought a Russian troll campaign as an experiment You could live forever with this sci-fi time hack A very fast spin through the hills in a hybrid Porsche 911 A search for San Francisco's lost authenticity The quest to make a bot that can smell as well as a dog 💻 Upgrade your work game with our Gear team’s favorite laptops , keyboards , typing alternatives , and noise-canceling headphones 📩 Want more? Sign up for our daily newsletter and never miss our latest and greatest stories Staff Writer X Topics E3 video games Simon Hill Lauren Goode Eric Ravenscraft Simon Hill Lauren Goode Jaina Grey Brenda Stolyar Simon Hill WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Groupon promo code: Extra 30% off any amount Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
