Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Angela Watercutter WIRED Staff Culture The 19 Best Shows on Apple TV+ Right Now Tyner Rushing in For All Mankind.
Courtesy of Apple TV+ Save this story Save Save this story Save Slowly but surely, Apple TV+ is finding its feet. The streaming service, which at launch we called “odd, angsty, and horny as hell,” has evolved into a diverse library of dramas, documentaries, and comedies. It’s also fairly cheap compared to services like Netflix—and Apple often throws in three free months when you buy a new iPhone, iPad, Mac, or Apple TV.
Curious but don’t know where to get started? Below are our picks for the best shows on the service. (Also, here are our picks for the best movies on Apple TV+.
) When you’re done, head over to our guides to the best shows on Netflix , best movies on Hulu , and best movies on Amazon Prime , because you can never have too much television.
If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
Long before Foundation , there was For All Mankind.
 The show not only set the tone for the kind of glossy prestige sci-fi Apple TV+ had ambitions to make, it was also the streaming service's attempt to plant its flag in the realm of streaming giants.
 A solid slice of alternate history, the show starts with a very smart premise: What if the US was edged out in putting a man on the moon? How would the space-race rivalry between the Americans and the Soviets have played out? It's mostly a slick, stylish, NASA-heavy period drama but, as this is from the brain of Ronald D. Moore, there are a few standout moments and episodes with attention shared around the large ensemble cast. It might be the best sci-fi show you're not watching, and if that's true you now have four seasons to catch up on.
Watch on Apple TV+ If your home screen hasn't made it obvious, Apple TV+ is super stoked about soccer these days. The streamer's latest foray: Messi Meets America , a six-part docuseries about all-star player Lionel Messi's move to Major League Soccer's Inter Miami club. The first three episodes air October 11, and subsequent episodes air in conjunction with this year's MLS season. Messi Mania, indeed.
Watch on Apple TV+ Based on the debut novel from science writer Bonnie Garmus, Lessons in Chemistry is the story of Elizabeth Zott (Brie Larson), who gets hired to host a cooking show after she's fired from the lab she was working in for doing science while female. Obviously, the show Elizabeth puts on ends up being about a lot more than just having dinner on the table at 6 pm, but we suggest you watch to find out just how revolutionary it is.
Watch on Apple TV+ Every streaming service needs a flashy mainstream drama with Hollywood heavyweights to pull in viewers. Apple TV+ has The Morning Show.
 When Alex Levy (Jennifer Aniston) loses her morning news program cohost Mitch Kessler (Steve Carell) following sexual misconduct accusations, she gets paired up with Bradley Jackson (Reese Witherspoon). What unfolds is a #MeToo-era drama full of TV network intrigue and Sorkin-lite dialog. In its second season, it went deep on Covid-19, and in the third season the series' fictional network, UBA, finds itself dealing with the aftermath of a cyberattack. With that new season launching September 13, now is a good time to dive back in—or watch for the first time.
Watch on Apple TV+ This Elisabeth Moss psychological thriller/murder mystery came out last year and never really got the buzz it likely deserved. All of that to say, you should probably watch it if you haven't already. Moss plays Kirby, a woman who believes a recent Chicago murder may be linked to an attack on her many years prior. She teams with a Sun-Times reporter to investigate, but the deeper she digs the more her own reality starts to shift. Based on the book The Shining Girls by Lauren Beukes, this series may seem like just another murder mystery but its sci-fi twists put it one step ahead.
Watch on Apple TV+ WIRED called Foundation a “flawed masterpiece” in our review of the first season. Considering the complexities of adapting a sprawling Isaac Asimov book series, it was high praise. Now, the dizzyingly ambitious Foundation is back for its second season. Starring Jared Harris as Hari Seldon, a math professor who, along with his loyal followers, is exiled for predicting the oncoming end of the galactic empire that rules over them, the show often suffers under the weight of its own massive scope. But it also features wonderful performances from Lee Pace and beautiful images inspired by the James Webb Space Telescope.
 If you have a soft spot for big sci-fi dramas, this Game-of-Thrones -in-space wannabe is a must-watch.
Watch on Apple TV+ Set in the late 1970s, The Crowded Room stars Tom Holland as Danny Sullivan, a young man arrested after a grisly shooting in New York City. Following his arrest, this 10-episode limited series unfolds into a twisty whodunit as interrogator Rya Goodwin (Amanda Seyfried) tries to suss out what happened with the shooting and the peculiar events in Sullivan’s past that may have shaped how he ended up involved. Holland recently told Extra that the shoot for The Crowded Room , which he also produced, “did break me,” leading to him taking a year-long hiatus from acting. Want to see why? Watch now.
Watch on Apple TV+ As WIRED's Kate Knibbs noted in the wake of Silo 's release, this show is prestige sci-fi gold.
 Based on a dystopian book trilogy by Hugh Howey , the series focuses on a subterranean bunker—the silo of the title—where humanity has sequestered itself after the apocalypse. Some are hoping to win the chance to reproduce, some are trying to solve mysterious murders. Everyone watching is enjoying figuring out what's going on in this underground city—and what's happening outside of it.
Watch on Apple TV+ On paper, Ted Lasso sounds terrible. The inconceivable story of an American football coach who has never watched a game of soccer somehow landing himself a job as coach of a (fictional) Premier League club and trying to make up for his total lack of qualifications by being a nice guy. Sounds unwatchable, doesn’t it? And yet Ted Lasso has captured the hearts and minds of viewers on both sides of the pond with its large-as-life cast and irresistibly wholesome messaging, hoovering up awards in the process. The third and final season wraps up on May 31, so now is the perfect time to binge it all.
Watch on Apple TV+ The Patricia Arquette-aissance doesn’t get as much ink as Matthew McConaughey or Keanu Reeves did during their second comings, but it’s here—in part thanks to the rise of streaming. Between The Act and Severance , Arquette has received some of the highest accolades of her long career recently, and High Desert seems poised to keep the award nominations coming. While coming to terms with the death of her mother, Peggy (Arquette)—an addict—decides she wants to pick up the pieces of her life and become a private investigator. She finds an unwitting employer/sometime mentor in Bruce Harvey (Brad Garrett), but not everyone is onboard with Peggy’s career decisions—namely, her straitlaced sister (Christine Taylor). It’s an odd duck of a show, which is perfectly suited to Arquette’s ethereal acting style, allowing her to seamlessly flit between moments of tragedy and laugh-out-loud comedy, with the audiences doing their best to keep up. The all-star cast is made even more impressive by recurring appearances from Bernadette Peters, as Peggy’s late mom.
Watch on Apple TV+ Look, Discovery doesn't get to corner the market on animal documentaries—and this 10-part docuseries proves it. Featuring elephant seals, brown bears, orangutans, giant otters, and all kinds of massive mammals in between, it's the perfect thing if you just want to escape and learn a few tidbits about nature. But the best part? It's narrated by Tom Hiddleston, and there's just something charming about hearing the voice of Loki talk about a bunch of different animals he could turn himself into in the blink of an eye.
Watch on Apple TV+ Continuing the “big” theme, The Big Door Prize , in which Chris O'Dowd plays a 40-year-old high school teacher named Dusty who's pretty content with his life until a magic machine shows up in his small town. The machine, you see, tells people their life's potential, and as soon as people around him start using it, everything changes. Marriages end, paths divert, and eventually Dusty must confront whether he's happy in his own life.
Watch on Apple TV+ Do you enjoy In Treatment but wish it was, you know, fun? Then Shrinking may be right for you. Created by Bill Lawrence and Brett Goldstein—of Ted Lasso fame—and Jason Segel, the show is about Jimmy (Segel), a therapist struggling to get over the death of his wife and reconnect with his daughter and patients. That may sound like a downer, and the show isn’t without its harder moments, but it’s buoyed by the fact that it’s also a workplace comedy focusing on the therapy practice where Jimmy works alongside Harrison Ford’s Paul and Jessica Williams’ Gaby.
Shrinking , ultimately, is about the things people do to cope, but it also features a dream team of a cast and one very memorable party scene featuring an (unrelated) vomit-soaked piano and a super-stoned Ford.
Watch on Apple TV+ Cinematically, M. Night Shyamalan can be a little hit-or-miss, but Servant , which the filmmaker executive produces, and occasionally directs, is stellar. It's about a Philadelphia couple—a chef and a news anchor—who lose a child only to have it mysteriously come back to life (maybe) with the arrival of their new nanny. (You really just need to watch the show for any of this to make sense.) Moody, freaky, and occasionally even funny, it'll suck you in. And now that it recently wrapped its fourth and final season, there’s plenty to enjoy.
Watch on Apple TV+ Claire Danes doing her best trembling-chin acting in period garb; Tom Hiddleston as a town vicar; rumors about a mysterious mythological serpent—is there anything not to love about this show? No, there’s not.
The Essex Serpent , based on the novel by Sarah Perry, follows a recent widow (Danes) as she heads to the countryside in Essex to investigate a “sea dragon.” There, she meets a vicar, Will (Hiddleston), who is far more skeptical of the serpent’s existence. Lush and inviting, it’s the ideal period mystery.
Watch on Apple TV+ Out of all the shows on this list, Severance may be the one that firmly established Apple TV+ as a streaming player with edgy prestige content. Adam Scott plays Mark, a man distraught by the death of his wife who opts to undergo Severance, a procedure that divides his memories of work from those of his life at home. He’s quite happy with the setup until a former Lumon Industries coworker tracks him down when he’s out-of-office, setting off a series of events that makes him question not only Severance but the work his company does. From there, it only gets more weird and bleak with each passing minute. Tense and heartbreaking, this show, the bulk of which was directed by Ben Stiller, will keep you guessing, and questioning, the whole way through.
Watch on Apple TV+ Originally released when Donald Trump was still president of the United States, Little America was and remains a timely reminder of what actually makes America great. Each episode of this anthology series focuses on a different story of immigrants living in America. From an undocumented high school student who discovers a talent for squash to a “bra whisperer” in Brooklyn, every one of these 30-minute vignettes—all of them based on real people—is inspiring and important viewing.
Watch on Apple TV+ An all-too-rare example of a video game TV show that really works, Mythic Quest is one of the best new workplace comedies of the last few years. Presented in perfectly bingeable half-hour episodes, the show follows a fictional game studio known for its World of Warcraft –like MMO, Mythic Quest , as the people who make it slalom through their many quirky relationships. The writing is excellent, consistently funny and emotionally impactful when you least expect it, and the show manages to confront real issues in the industry without sacrificing laughs.
Watch on Apple TV+ Hailee Steinfeld is a riotous young Emily Dickinson in this half-hour show from creator Alena Smith. It was part of the original Apple TV+ lineup and quickly distinguished itself thanks to its off-kilter vision of 19th century Amherst, Massachusetts. The first season is a set of sharp, surreal vignettes, inspired by Dickinson's work and tracing the imagined life of the young poet, who is rebelling against her father, the town's societal rules, and just about everything else. The second and third seasons go deeper—examining not only the poet's life, but also the roles race, gender, sexuality, and class played in the early days of America. If you're a Dickinson stan, love a bit of smart queer dramedy, or just have a penchant for a modern soundtrack in a Civil War–era show, you’ll dig this.
Watch on Apple TV+ Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker You Might Also Like … 📨 Make the most of chatbots with our AI Unlocked newsletter Taylor Swift, Star Wars, Stranger Things , and Deadpool have one man in common Generative AI is playing a surprising role in Israel-Hamas disinformation The new era of social media looks as bad for privacy as the last one Johnny Cash’s Taylor Swift cover predicts the boring future of AI music Your internet browser does not belong to you 🔌 Charge right into summer with the best travel adapters , power banks , and USB hubs Senior Editor X Tumblr Topics Culture Guides TV streaming Television Jennifer M. Wood Jennifer M. Wood Matt Kamen Matt Kamen Jennifer M. Wood Matt Kamen Jennifer M. Wood Angela Watercutter Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
