Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Simon Hill Gear I Finally Found a Work Computer Setup That’s Practically Perfect Photograph: ALAMA/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save From my early days in game development to my current writing gig, I've been working at a desk for more than 25 years. Screens have always commanded my attention. Things had improved enormously since two chunky beige CRTs dominated my desk, but I still hadn't found the perfect monitor setup—until now.
I'm divulging this information to you for free (you're welcome). If you seek the ideal home office setup , you need a curved ultrawide monitor with a second screen on the side in portrait orientation. It's the best combination for writing and gaming, with enough real estate for every task.
If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
Photograph: Simon Hill As a kid, I longed for a battle station with multiple monitors, but that kind of setup was rare back then, found only in the offices of obsessive developers (or the lairs of supervillains). My first job after university was as a game tester. The indignity of regularly working 16-hour shifts in a converted closet with wires dangling from the ceiling was assuaged by the fact that I had two screens—one to play through the game and the other to log bugs.
The geeky thrill of that dual-screen arrangement sparked a lifelong search for the ideal combo. As I advanced from play-testing to game design, my setup slowly improved. But money was tight at work and home. For years, I had two mismatched screens, balanced precariously on a pile of textbooks. With two screens, you can work on one and test on the other, research on one and write on the other, and so on.
But it’s a flawed setup for gaming. You can stretch the game across both screens, but the monitor bezels in the center ruin the experience. So instead I would play games on one and use the second for music, podcasts, and messaging. That setup was totally fine , but my desire for symmetry made the mismatched size irritating.
Even after I upgraded to identical monitors, constantly moving between them meant I was always facing slightly off to the side. Not a problem for a supple youngster, but over the years I developed cricks and aches that led to serious back pain.
When I bought my first flat-screen TV, I couldn’t wait to try it out with my PC. The benefits of one large screen were immediate. I could look straight on—no more cricks in my neck. I rarely lost track of my mouse pointer, and the big screen was a dream to play games on. It was also neater and required less cabling.
But there were drawbacks. For work, I found it irritating to be constantly tabbing between applications. All the options to have multiple app windows simultaneously displayed annoyed me. I had to adjust my position, sitting further back to avoid feeling goggle-eyed. I also realized that there’s something psychologically pleasing about the division between two screens when I’m working.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals We've Found Nena Farrell Gear The Best Amazon Black Friday Deals Louryn Strampe Gear The Best Black Friday Tech Deals Nena Farrell Missing the multi-monitor life, I figured maybe three could work. Supplementary content on both sides with my primary work on the middle screen, and a wide view for gaming. My excitement waned when I found that few games supported the unusual resolution. When it worked, the wider perspective was great. But too often, vital visual elements in games got messed up. Oh, and the monitor bezels jutting into the gameplay were still annoying.
With work, I also rarely felt the need for a third monitor. Two felt like a real productivity boost, but three offered diminishing returns. Three monitors also take up a lot of space and require more cabling and arms. My desk felt crowded.
Eventually, I went back to a dual-screen setup but with a twist. I paired a central curved 34-inch ultrawide and added a 27-inch screen in portrait orientation. This combo doesn’t fix the crick-inducing need to look off to the left, and it’s not symmetrical. But sacrifices must be made. I am slowly training myself to swivel my chair rather than twist my body, and I'm learning to live with the mismatched orientations.
Quibbles aside, this setup offers the best of both worlds. Games feel more immersive on an ultrawide. From the enhanced view of maps and battlefields in Total War: Warhammer III to the peripheral vision in Halo: Infinite , ultrawide screens just make it easier to play, and I feel as though they give me an edge. They don't have to be uber-expensive either.
The portrait display reduces your need to scroll, whether you're reading a report or article, working on a spreadsheet or database, or scrolling through Slack threads. Also, you don’t need to move the mouse across as often–one of the main annoyances of the dual-screen setup. I usually only turn the second monitor on for work, and when I do, I feel more productive than ever.
The simplified single-screen experience will likely tempt me back someday, but for now, this is tantalizingly close to monitor perfection.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get a 1-Year Subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
📩 The latest on tech, science, and more: Get our newsletters ! The infinite reach of Facebook's man in Washington Of course we're living in a simulation A big bet to kill the password for good How to block spam calls and text messages The end of infinite data storage can set you free 👁️ Explore AI like never before with our new database ✨ Optimize your home life with our Gear team’s best picks, from robot vacuums to affordable mattresses to smart speakers Contributor X Topics screens displays PCs rants and raves Office Shopping PC Games Simon Hill Julian Chokkattu Reece Rogers Brenda Stolyar Brendan Nystedt Simon Hill Scott Gilbertson Scott Gilbertson WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
