Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Harvard Professor Answers Happiness Questions From Twitter About Released on 03/14/2023 I'm Arthur Brooks, a professor at Harvard University and the happiness columnist at The Atlantic.
I'm here today to answer your questions on Twitter.
This is Happiness Support.
[upbeat music] First up, @simpysamantha, who just, Found out that the key to happiness is a good sleep schedule.
Who knew? Well, the secret to happiness is not lots of sleep or even a good sleep schedule.
One of the funny things about diet, nutrition, exercise, sleep, they don't actually bring happiness, but they do lower unhappiness, which can be your problem.
Now it sounds like I'm splitting hairs, right? Most people think that unhappiness is the opposite of happiness.
It's not.
They're actually processed in different hemispheres of the brain.
Happiness on one side, unhappiness on the other.
The right side is negative basic emotions, and the way that we know this is because the left side of the face, which is controlled by the right side of the brain, is more active when we're feeling negative emotions.
So, simpysamantha, my guess is that, you know, you've got some unhappiness in your life, and look, we all do.
Some of us have higher negative feeling levels than others.
If you've got that and you want some relief, that's what's gonna bring it.
So it won't make you happier, it's not the secret of happiness, but it sure is good for having less unhappiness.
Have a good night's sleep.
Queenoffire85, Does anyone ever experience depression or uncertainty after achieving a goal? Oh, yes. Yes, they do.
This is the real riddle of happiness.
This is the satisfaction dilemma in a nutshell.
Yeah, if I get that watch, I'm gonna love it forever.
I get that car, I get that house, I get that relationship, I get that job, that money, that, fill in the blank, it's gonna be so great, and it is for a minute.
Now there's neurophysiology behind this, too.
There's a neuromodulator in the brain called dopamine, and you want it, you work for it, you're gonna get it.
Dopamine, dopamine, dopamine, you got it, [grunts].
Oh. Oh, I guess I need to start again.
Here's just a little, tiny way to think about how to solve that problem.
You, I, everybody, Mother Nature teaches us that to get satisfaction and keep it you need to have more.
That's the wrong model.
Your real satisfaction is all the things you have divided by all the things that you want.
Now you can try to increase your satisfaction permanently by having more, or you can work on the denominator of haves divided by wants.
You can work on wanting less.
That turns out to be the right formula.
Shaikitoff, or shaikitoff.
Shaikitoff. I got it! Shaikitoff asks, How do I practice gratitude when all I feel is sadness, frustration, and confusion? Back to your question, how do I feel gratitude? You decide to be grateful is the bottom line.
The brain kind of is in three parts.
It's not exactly this way, but just for reference, there's the ancient part that has all your motor functions and breathing and brain stem and spinal column.
Then you got the middle part, your your limbic system that takes signals from the outside world and takes a kind of machine language and turns it into feelings that happen to you.
And then from there it delivers those signals into the neocortex of the brain, the wrinkly part on the outside of your brain, the most evolved and amazingly human of which is the prefrontal cortex, a bumper of brain tissue right behind your forehead, and it gets these emotions, and you decide what they mean and what you're supposed to do.
Now, a lot of people go through life in just kind of a limbic state being delivered emotions.
And if you're sort of a limbic person feeling like you're managed by these things, kind of hoping for the best, then your limbic system is in charge.
But that's not your only option.
You can be in charge yourself, but what you have to do is to experience your emotions in the prefrontal cortex of your brain.
And it's a very simple process, if you put your mind to it.
It's called metacognition.
Metacognition means being aware of your emotions and your thinking.
This is what humans are uniquely available to do.
My dog, Chucho, he's not metacognitive, he can't be.
He feels it. He does it.
He sees the cookie. He eats the cookie.
But I can actually deliver that information to my prefrontal cortex and make an executive decision about what I'm going to do, not withstanding my feelings.
Here's what I ask my students to do at Harvard.
I ask them to make a gratitude list on Sunday nights.
They make a list of the five things they're most grateful for, then every night during the rest of the week take five minutes and look at your gratitude list.
Sundays, update your list.
In 10 weeks, you're gonna be between 15 and 25% happier because you decided to be grateful.
You managed your emotions so they didn't manage you, and if you do that, it's a game changer.
Being in charge, you're never gonna be the same.
Hase1136, Pretty Rabbit, As I lay here, I wonder what is the true meaning of happiness? Happiness is actually a combination of three identifiable things that we all need and we all want in both balance and abundance.
These are the macronutrients of happiness.
Your Thanksgiving dinner is protein, carbohydrates, and fat.
Well, your happiness is enjoyment, satisfaction, and purpose.
Enjoyment is not just pleasure, it's pleasure with consciousness.
It's using your prefrontal cortex.
Satisfaction is the joy that you get from a job well done.
It's your reward for striving, for working, for even suffering.
Purpose, what's that? Well, that's really a question of finding coherence in your life, finding goals in your life, finding significance in your life.
If you have those three things, you have happiness.
GeeorgeStyles asks, Is happiness connected to having a purpose? Purpose is literally one of the macronutrients of happiness, but it's a weird one.
It's actually hard to figure out even what it is.
If you're feeling like life doesn't have enough purpose, that life doesn't have enough meaning, answer the following two questions: why am I alive, and for what would I be willing to die? If you don't have an answer to one or both of those questions, you're gonna have an existential crisis.
And you need to go in search with your life of an answer to those two questions.
I'm not gonna tell you what those answers are.
They're different for different people.
So yes, does purpose lead to happiness? Oh, yeah.
How do you find your purpose? Answer those two questions.
Find the answer to those two questions.
That's your assignment.
Syedafati, Can social media cause depression? Yes, so it seems.
Here's the basic bottom line.
Social media is like the junk food of social life.
High calories, low nutrition.
You're starving for this neuropeptide called oxytocin.
It bonds people together.
You get almost none of it when you don't have touch and eye contact, but you crave more and more social contact when you've been on social media for so long, so you binge it.
It's basically like binging french fries and then wondering why you feel crummy and you're gaining weight, but you're not getting your nutrition.
Here's the deal.
If you're gonna use social media, make sure it only ever compliments your in-person relationships and you use it very sparingly.
I'm talking about a total of 30 minutes a day across all platforms and never, ever, ever, ever substituting for an in-person friendship.
If it substitutes for any friendship or goes outside of those bounds, it's gonna lower your happiness.
Poojasgoyal, gotta get the middle initial, I know, How does age affect happiness? And she encloses a graph, and what it does is it looks at different ages the average happiness level in a particular country at a particular time, and it looks the same every place.
What do you think is gonna happen if, let's just say, you're in your late 20s? Are you gonna be happier or unhappier in 10 years? Now most people watching me are optimists.
Most people think they're gonna be happier at 38 than they were at 28, and the reason is because these have these goals and they think that they're gonna meet their goals.
Most people think they're gonna get happier as they get older, and it's gonna reach a max point, and then it's gonna head back down again.
The truth is exactly the opposite.
Most people, on average, they get a slight diminution of their happiness from their early 20s until their late 40s or early 50s, but it's like eight to seven on a 1 to 10 scale.
This is not a huge problem.
Noticeable but not horrible.
Then in your early 50s it turns around and you start back up again, and almost everybody actually gets increasing happiness from their early 50s until about 70, except two groups: people who have unremediated mental illness and people who have untreated substance use disorders.
So if this is you, get treated for anxiety and depression and mood disorders and get treated for addiction.
All right, next question comes from @LaughingAllTheWay, How do we adjust our expectations as we age? That's a good one.
One of the things that actually gets better and better and better as you age is your expectations about the future because you understand how things work.
There's this tyranny that people don't understand until they're usually a little after 50 years old.
They think that if they get that thing that they want, they're gonna get it and they're gonna enjoy it and it's never gonna go away, and then it does.
They also think that if something bad happens to them that they're gonna stay in a bad mood or sad or angry or afraid forever.
Here's what you learn after 50: nothing lasts and it doesn't matter.
There's a thing that all biologists talk about, which is homeostasis, the tendency of every biological process to go back to its equilibrium.
Well, it works emotionally as well.
Your anger, your sadness, your disgust, your fear, your joy, your interest, those things don't last for good and for bad.
Your heart is broken? It won't last.
When you figure that out, this is power, and if you harness that, every year's better than the last.
Or it can be.
Next up, this one's from Father Poster, and I'm just gonna take a wild guess that this is actually not a priest.
How do I transcend from my mortal anguish? Sounds to me like Father Poster is a little afraid of dying, but we're all afraid of our own version of dying.
There's a meditation that the Theravada Buddhists do.
If you go to a monastery, a Buddhist monastery, in the southern tier of Asia, especially East Asia, Thailand or Vietnam or Myanmar, you'll find pictures of corpses in various states of decay and that the monks have to ponder and they have to say, That is me and that is me.
What are they doing? They're doing what's called the maranasati death meditation.
Walk yourself through that. Why? Because you're gonna accustom yourself to that sort of surreal experience of your own death as you see it.
How do I transcend my mortal anguish? By leaning into my mortal anguish.
You beat fear by experiencing the fear and making it ordinary, and it will no longer be a ghost and it will no longer be a problem.
@thYrd_eYe_prYin, I've been working on being present.
To be present means to be here now.
That's the words that Ram Dass used to talk about.
We have a special kind of language that we put on that now, it's called being mindful.
Mindfulness is hard because we're time travelers.
You're thinking about the past.
You're thinking about the future.
The average person, by the way, spends 30 to 50% of their time thinking about the future.
That's unbelievable.
You're not here now.
Think about how much you do that, by the way.
You go on vacation, you're like, Oh, I'm gonna make some memories, so I'm gonna take a picture, picture, picture, picture, picture.
You're thinking about now as if it were the past in the future when you're looking back on the present.
That's unbelievable time travel.
We do it all the time.
Here's the problem.
You missed your life. You missed it.
You know, the great Vietnamese Buddhist monk Thich Nhat Hahn, y'all have to read The Miracle of Mindfulness 'cause it starts off with him describing what it's like to wash the dishes.
I'm washing the dishes, and I'm conscious of washing the dishes because if I don't think about washing the dishes I will not be present in the act of washing the dishes.
That means working on being a mindful person.
Maybe it's with meditation, maybe it's with prayer, maybe it's with therapy, and sitting with your hands folded on your lap looking out the window of the train saying, I am sitting on the train right now because I don't wanna miss my life.
Finally, Shammeri_AAA wants to know the definition of wisdom.
Psychometricians, those who study different forms of intelligence, find that we have a thing called fluid intelligence early on.
In our 20s and 30s, the ability to focus, to innovate, to solve problems, to think quickly.
People tend to peak in knowledge professions, at their ability to solve problems, to innovate, to focus, working memory in their late 30s.
But there's another curve behind it called crystallized intelligence, which increases through your 40s and 50s and 60s and stays high in your 70s and 80s.
It's the wisdom curve.
The essence of wisdom is teaching, is mentoring.
It's leading teams. It's recognizing patterns.
It's understanding what things really mean and using that information in service of other people.
And it gets better, and if you choose to cultivate it, it can make your life as happy as it could possibly be as you get older.
That's not only the consolation of age, that's the promise of wisdom.
Well, it looks like that's all we've got for today.
Those are your questions.
I hope you've learned a lot from this time.
I hope you've enjoyed it.
I hope you're a little bit happier.
But here's the key thing, if you really wanna lock it in, here's the secret.
You gotta think about it and you gotta adopt new habits in your life, and most of all, here's the most important part, you gotta share it.
Go share it, then you'll never lose it.
Thanks for taking some time with me today.
[cheerful music] Gordon Ramsay Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Ken Jeong Answers Medical Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter Blizzard's Jeff Kaplan Answers Overwatch Questions From Twitter Nick Offerman Answers Woodworking Questions From Twitter Bungie's Luke Smith Answers Destiny Questions From Twitter Jackie Chan & Olivia Munn Answer Martial Arts Questions From Twitter Scott Kelly Answers Astronaut Questions From Twitter LaVar Ball Answers Basketball Questions From Twitter Dillon Francis Answers DJ Questions From Twitter Tony Hawk Answers Skateboarding Questions From Twitter Jerry Rice Answers Football Questions From Twitter Garry Kasparov Answers Chess Questions From Twitter U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Athletes Answer Olympics Questions From Twitter Neuroscientist Anil Seth Answers Neuroscience Questions From Twitter Blizzard's Ben Brode Answers Hearthstone Questions From Twitter John Cena Answers Wrestling Questions From Twitter The Slow Mo Guys Answer Slow Motion Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Even More Science Questions From Twitter James Cameron Answers Sci-Fi Questions From Twitter Best of Tech Support: Bill Nye, Neil DeGrasse Tyson and More Answer Science Questions from Twitter Riot Games' Greg Street Answers League of Legends Questions from Twitter Riot Games' Greg Street Answers Even More League of Legends Questions from Twitter PlayerUnknown Answers PUBG Questions From Twitter Liza Koshy, Markiplier, Rhett & Link, and Hannah Hart Answer YouTube Creator Questions From Twitter NCT 127 Answer K-Pop Questions From Twitter Neil deGrasse Tyson Answers Science Questions From Twitter Ken Jeong Answers More Medical Questions From Twitter Bon Appétit's Brad & Claire Answer Cooking Questions From Twitter Bang Bang Answers Tattoo Questions From Twitter Ed Boon Answers Mortal Kombat 11 Questions From Twitter Nick Jonas and Kelly Clarkson Answer Singing Questions from Twitter Penn Jillette Answers Magic Questions From Twitter The Russo Brothers Answer Avengers: Endgame Questions From Twitter Alex Honnold Answers Climbing Questions From Twitter Sloane Stephens Answers Tennis Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter - Part 3 Astronaut Nicole Stott Answers Space Questions From Twitter Mark Cuban Answers Mogul Questions From Twitter Ubisoft's Alexander Karpazis Answers Rainbow Six Siege Questions From Twitter Marathon Champion Answers Running Questions From Twitter Ninja Answers Fortnite Questions From Twitter Cybersecurity Expert Answers Hacking Questions From Twitter Bon Appétit's Brad & Chris Answer Thanksgiving Questions From Twitter SuperM Answers K-Pop Questions From Twitter The Best of Tech Support: Ken Jeong, Bill Nye, Nicole Stott and More Twitter's Jack Dorsey Answers Twitter Questions From Twitter Jodie Whittaker Answers Doctor Who Questions From Twitter Astronomer Jill Tarter Answers Alien Questions From Twitter Tattoo Artist Bang Bang Answers More Tattoo Questions From Twitter Respawn Answers Apex Legends Questions From Twitter Michael Strahan Answers Super Bowl Questions From Twitter Dr. Martin Blaser Answers Coronavirus Questions From Twitter Scott Adkins Answers Martial Arts Training Questions From Twitter Psychiatrist Daniel Amen Answers Brain Questions From Twitter The Hamilton Cast Answers Hamilton Questions From Twitter Travis & Lyn-Z Pastrana Answer Stunt Questions From Twitter Mayim Bialik Answers Neuroscience Questions From Twitter Zach King Answers TikTok Questions From Twitter Riot Games Answers League of Legends Questions from Twitter Aaron Sorkin Answers Screenwriting Questions From Twitter Survivorman Les Stroud Answers Survival Questions From Twitter Joe Manganiello Answers Dungeons & Dragons Questions From Twitter "Star Wars Explained" Answers Star Wars Questions From Twitter Wizards of the Coast Answer Magic: The Gathering Questions From Twitter "Star Wars Explained" Answers More Star Wars Questions From Twitter VFX Artist Answers Movie & TV VFX Questions From Twitter CrossFit Coach Answers CrossFit Questions From Twitter Yo-Yo Ma Answers Cello Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers Cadaver Questions From Twitter Babish Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Jacob Collier Answers Music Theory Questions From Twitter The Lord of the Rings Expert Answers More Tolkien Questions From Twitter Wolfgang Puck Answers Restaurant Questions From Twitter Fast & Furious Car Expert Answers Car Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers Body Language Questions From Twitter Olympian Dominique Dawes Answers Gymnastics Questions From Twitter Allyson Felix Answers Track Questions From Twitter Dr. Michio Kaku Answers Physics Questions From Twitter Former NASA Astronaut Answers Space Questions From Twitter Surgeon Answers Surgery Questions From Twitter Beekeeper Answers Bee Questions From Twitter Michael Pollan Answers Psychedelics Questions From Twitter Ultramarathoner Answers Questions From Twitter Bug Expert Answers Insect Questions From Twitter Former Cult Member Answers Cult Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers MORE Dead Body Questions From Twitter Toxicologist Answers Poison Questions From Twitter Brewmaster Answers Beer Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers Biology Questions From Twitter James Dyson Answers Design Questions From Twitter Dermatologist Answers Skin Questions From Twitter Dwyane Wade Answers Basketball Questions From Twitter Baker Answers Baking Questions from Twitter Astrophysicist Answers Questions From Twitter Age Expert Answers Aging Questions From Twitter Fertility Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Biological Anthropologist Answers Love Questions From Twitter Mathematician Answers Math Questions From Twitter Statistician Answers Stats Questions From Twitter Sleep Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Botanist Answers Plant Questions From Twitter Ornithologist Answers Bird Questions From Twitter Alex Honnold Answers MORE Rock Climbing Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers MORE Body Language Questions From Twitter Waste Expert Answers Garbage Questions From Twitter Garbage Boss Answers Trash Questions From Twitter J. Kenji López-Alt Answers Cooking Questions From Twitter Veterinarian Answers Pet Questions From Twitter Doctor Answers Gut Questions From Twitter Chemist Answers Chemistry Questions From Twitter Taste Expert Answers Questions From Twitter Paleontologist Answers Dinosaur Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers More Biology Questions From Twitter Biologist Answers Even More Biology Questions From Twitter ER Doctor Answers Injury Questions From Twitter Toxicologist Answers More Poison Questions From Twitter Energy Expert Answers Energy Questions From Twitter BBQ Pitmaster Answers BBQ Questions From Twitter Neil Gaiman Answers Mythology Questions From Twitter Sushi Chef Answers Sushi Questions From Twitter The Lord of the Rings Expert Answers Tolkien Questions From Twitter Audiologist Answers Hearing Questions From Twitter Marine Biologist Answers Shark Questions From Twitter Bill Nye Answers Science Questions From Twitter - Part 4 John McEnroe Answers Tennis Questions From Twitter Malcolm Gladwell Answers Research Questions From Twitter Financial Advisor Answers Money Questions From Twitter Stanford Computer Scientist Answers Coding Questions From Twitter Wildlife Vet Answers Wild Animal Questions From Twitter Climate Scientist Answers Earth Questions From Twitter Medical Doctor Answers Hormone Questions From Twitter James Hoffmann Answers Coffee Questions From Twitter Video Game Director Answers Questions From Twitter Robotics Professor Answers Robot Questions From Twitter Scam Fighters Answer Scam Questions From Twitter Forensics Expert Answers Crime Scene Questions From Twitter Chess Pro Answers Questions From Twitter Former FBI Agent Answers Body Language Questions From Twitter...Once Again Memory Champion Answers Questions From Twitter Neuroscientist Answers Illusion Questions From Twitter Immunologist Answers Immune System Questions From Twitter Rocket Scientists Answer Questions From Twitter How Vinyl Records Are Made (with Third Man Records) Neurosurgeon Answers Brain Surgery Questions From Twitter Therapist Answers Relationship Questions From Twitter Polyphia's Tim Henson Answers Guitar Questions From Twitter Structural Engineer Answers City Questions From Twitter Harvard Professor Answers Happiness Questions From Twitter A.I. Expert Answers A.I. Questions From Twitter Pizza Chef Answers Pizza Questions From Twitter Former CIA Chief of Disguise Answers Spy Questions From Twitter Astrophysicist Answers Space Questions From Twitter Cannabis Scientist Answers Questions From Twitter Sommelier Answers Wine Questions From Twitter Mycologist Answers Mushroom Questions From Twitter Genndy Tartakovsky Answers Animation Questions From Twitter Pro Card Counter Answers Casino Questions From Twitter Doctor Answers Lung Questions From Twitter Paul Hollywood & Prue Leith Answer Baking Questions From Twitter Geneticist Answers Genetics Questions From Twitter Sneaker Expert Jeff Staple Answers Sneaker Questions From Twitter 'The Points Guy' Brian Kelly Answers Travel Questions From Twitter Master Chef Answers Indian Food & Curry Questions From Twitter Archaeologist Answers Archaeology Questions From Twitter LegalEagle's Devin Stone Answers Law Questions From Twitter Todd McFarlane Answers Comics Questions From Twitter Reptile Expert Answers Reptile Questions From Twitter Mortician Answers Burial Questions From Twitter Eye Doctor Answers Eye Questions From Twitter Computer Scientist Answers Computer Questions From Twitter Neurologist Answers Nerve Questions From Twitter Hacker Answers Penetration Test Questions From Twitter Nutritionist Answers Nutrition Questions From Twitter Experts Predict the Future of Technology, AI & Humanity Doctor Answers Blood Questions From Twitter Sports Statistician Answers Sports Math Questions From Twitter Shark Tank's Mark Cuban Answers Business Questions From Twitter Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 Director Answers Video Game Questions From Twitter Criminologist Answers True Crime Questions From Twitter Physicist Answers Physics Questions From Twitter | Tech Support Chess Pro Answers More Questions From Twitter Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
