Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Julian Chokkattu Gear The Best Galaxy S23 Cases and Accessories Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Best Overall $50 at Amazon (S23) Best MagSafe Case $40 at Peak Design Best Cheap Case $20 at Amazon Best Clear Case $35 at Pivet Samsung phones are among the best Android handsets , and the Galaxy S23 series is no exception. They're priced to match, which is why it's important to protect your investment, whether you have the Galaxy S23, Galaxy S23+, or Galaxy S23 Ultra. Sure, Samsung utilizes Corning's Gorilla Glass Victus 2 around the device, but glass is still glass, and a single drop could be all it takes to crack the screen.
A case and screen protector don't guarantee a life free from scratches and cracks, but some protection is better than none. These are the best Galaxy S23 cases of the dozens we've tested. We've also included accessories like chargers and cables to kit out your new phone. Be sure to check our Best Galaxy S22 Cases and Best Android Phones guides for more.
Updated October 2023: We've added cases from Vena and Dbrand.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get WIRED for just $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com , full Gear coverage, and subscriber-only newsletters. Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Photograph: Otterbox Best Overall OtterBox Symmetry Series Case OtterBox's Symmetry case is a safe choice if you want protection but don't want to add too much bulk to your Galaxy S23. It's made with more than 50 percent recycled plastic, with a polycarbonate back and a synthetic rubber bumper around the edges. The buttons are clicky, the edges around the screen are raised a fair bit, and I like that there's no gaudy branding on the back (just on one edge). Wireless charging works perfectly, and it comes in a fun purple color! Note: Avoid the “Clear” versions. The buttons tend to rattle on the models I tried, though they're otherwise fine.
$50 at Amazon (S23) $50 at Amazon (S23+) $50 at Amazon (S23 Ultra) Photograph: Peak Design Best MagSafe Case Peak Design Everyday MagSafe Case for Samsung I have become a bit of a fiend for all things with magnets , and Peak Design's Everyday cases are my go-to, whether I'm using an iPhone , Pixel , or Samsung phone. It's a magnetic case so it can attach to MagSafe accessories from Apple's ecosystem , from wireless charging stands to Peak Design's car vent mount.
 You can enjoy using MagSafe portable battery packs , phone grips , docks , wallets, and even camera accessories like tripods , though it's not guaranteed to work with every MagSafe accessory, as those are technically designed for iPhones. Peak Design's MagSafe case stands out because of the additional square hole in the center. Pair it with certain mounts, like the company's Universal Bar Mount or Out Front Bike Mount , and you get a more secure attachment point. I've been using the bar mount on electric scooters for more than a year and have never had my phone fall out. Super handy! The case itself isn't too showy, but there's a nice hard bumper around the sides with decently raised edges for screen protection. The fabric-like texture on the back feels great and looks smart, too.
★ An alternative: Want a magnetic connection but in a different style? The Mous Limitless 5.0 ($60) is similarly great. (I prefer the Walnut and Aramid Fibre designs.) You get responsive buttons, a lanyard hole, and a microfiber inner to protect the rear glass. It's pretty svelte, though the edges can feel a bit slippery.
$40 at Peak Design Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Photograph: Cyrill Best Cheap Case Cyrill UltraColor Case Want a simple, no-frills case without spending a fortune? Cyrill’s UltraColor is the way to go, especially in the Kale color. All the cutouts for the ports and microphones are accurate, and it's made of a thermoplastic urethane material that's lovely to touch. Did I mention it's attractive? This is an elegant case, though the edges around the screen aren't as raised as I'd like. The sides are grippy, it maintains a slim profile, and there's no interference with button presses. I had no trouble accessing the S Pen on the S23 Ultra. Cyrill adds a lanyard in the box so you can hang the phone from your wrist.
★ An alternative: Spigen has long been my go-to recommendation for great cheap cases, so you should consider the Cryo Armor Case ($21) , though it's only available for the Galaxy S23 Ultra. It has a nice honeycomb-like texture on the back made of thermoplastic polyurethane, which purportedly helps dissipate heat when you're gaming for extended periods, though I haven't noticed much of a difference. I just think it's pretty, and it checks all the boxes, though the edges could stand to be raised a smidge more.
$20 at Amazon $34 at Cyrill Photograph: Pivet Best Clear Case Pivet Aspect Clear Case Pivet's cases are unique because, while they're made from recycled plastics, they're also biodegradable.
 That's because the company uses a proprietary material that speeds up the degradation process when the case enters landfill conditions. This means that instead of taking hundreds of years to break down, it'll do the job in just two or three. The packaging is made of recycled materials and is compostable.
As for the case, I don't have many qualms! It doesn't feel sticky like some clear cases, there's an included lanyard, and the buttons are clicky. Just be careful when you handle it for the first time, as the inner area can attract dust pretty easily.
★ An alternative: This Clear Phone Case ($60) from Mous is overpriced but checks all the boxes, and it has fairly grippy edges. I also like that the back of the top and bottom edges stick out a bit to protect the cameras when it's resting on a surface. There's a MagSafe version if you want to attach magnetic accessories.
$35 at Pivet Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Photograph: Dbrand A MagSafe Clear Case (S23 Ultra Only) dbrand Ghost Case With Magnets for S23 Ultra Dbrand's Ghost is a svelte, clear case with a magnetic ring on the back, so you can use it with MagSafe accessories.
 I like the grippy edges and the clicky buttons, and it's easy to access the S23 Ultra's S Pen. The edges around the camera module are raised pretty well, and so are the top and bottom edges around the screen. Dbrand claims its cases will not yellow over time, and it's so confident in this that it's promising a free replacement if your case ever starts to yellow. Time will tell.
$50 at Dbrand Photograph: Otterbox Best Rugged Case (With a Holster) OtterBox Defender Series Case Want to maximize your protection? You did spend hundreds of dollars on a smartphone, after all. If you don't mind the bulk (and I mean bulk ), then it's hard not to appreciate the OtterBox Defender. You snap the polycarbonate shell over the phone, then toss on the synthetic rubber slipcover. It doesn't make the phone too thick, but it does make it wider and taller (and probably harder to fit in your pocket). That's why it comes with a holster! Are those in fashion yet? You can clip it to your belt or whatever else you attach holsters to, and I appreciate that it doubles as a kickstand for watching the game hands-free.
The case feels nice and is made with 50 percent recycled materials, and the S Pen on the S23 Ultra version is easy to access. The USB-C port is covered up, the edges are raised well enough to keep the screen protected, and the buttons feel snappy. The difference between the Defender Series and the Defender Pro Series is that the latter has an antimicrobial treatment ( save your money ). Surprisingly, wireless charging still works when it's out of the holster.
★ An alternative: The Vena vArmor Rugged Case ($19) is only available for the S23 Ultra, but it packs fantastic value. The case is removable from the holster, and while it's a bit wide, the bumper is grippy and feels nice, and the buttons are clicky. The USB-C port is protected, and the S Pen is easy to access. Pop it into the holster and you can hook it onto a belt, but the clip can also double as a kickstand to prop the phone up in landscape orientation. I just wish the design wasn't so gaudy.
$65 at Amazon $65 at OtterBox Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Photograph: UAG Two Good Screen Protectors Protect the Display UAG Glass Shield Plus Tempered Glass Screen Protector for $40 : I like how easy it was to apply this tempered glass screen protector from UAG. (It's also available for the S23+ and S23 Ultra.
) You get just one protector though. Wipe down your phone with the included microfiber cloth, use the dust sticker to clear off any particles, and use the alignment tool to place the protector on the screen. I got a perfect fit fairly quickly, with a few air bubbles that were easy to squeeze out. The only note I'd make (and UAG makes) is to redo your fingerprint scan, as the S23 had trouble registering my prints. If you're still having issues with the fingerprint sensor, you can increase the sensitivity of the screen by heading to Settings > Display > Touch sensitivity.
Belkin ScreenForce TrueClear Screen Protector for $44 : Like the UAG, you get only one screen protector here, and no alcohol wipes. This one is also available for the S23+ and S23 Ultra.
 Use the cloth and the sticker to clear the dust off the screen, then drop the phone in the included tray. It was just as easy to align and apply the protector, and I ended up with very few air bubbles, which disappeared quickly. I didn't notice any changes to the display's colors, and the fingerprint sensor continued to work just as well. It comes in 100 percent recycled plastic packaging.
Photograph: Zagg Best Kickstand Case Zagg Gear4 Denali Kickstand Case Here's a case that can stay upright on its own—in landscape or portrait orientation—thanks to the sturdy built-in kickstand on the back. It's attractive too (it doesn't just come in black!), and has ridges on the back for some variety. The lips around the edges could stand to be slightly more raised, but the buttons are clicky, and the kickstand doesn't impede wireless charging when it's flush. I've tried a lot of Zagg cases and this is easily my favorite.
$60 at Amazon (S23) $60 at Amazon (S23+) $60 at Amazon (S23 Ultra) Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Photograph: UAG Another Great MagSafe Case UAG Metropolis LT Pro Magnetic Case Most of UAG's cases look … interesting. (I'm trying to be nice.) The Metropolis LT Pro is one of the few I wouldn't mind using out in public. Ignore the talk of Kevlar on the product page, it doesn't really add much here other than aesthetics. This is a MagSafe case , so there's a ring of magnets embedded inside, allowing you to use third-party MagSafe accessories , like wireless charging stands and MagSafe power banks. The sides are a tiny bit slippery, but the S Pen on the S23 Ultra model is easy to access, and it otherwise hits all the right notes—outside of the price.
$65 at Amazon (S23) $65 at Amazon (S23 Ultra) $65 at UAG Photograph: Incipio Slick and Grippy Incipio Duo and Grip Case These two cases from Incipio are a little plain, but they're nice for the price. The Duo is a two-piece case with a slick design that offers easy access to the S Pen. There are decently raised edges around the screen, and its buttons are satisfying to press. The soft-touch finish is a little slippery, however.
If you've got butterfingers, try Incipio's Grip case. I tried holding the phone lightly and shaking it in my hand to see if it would slip out, and the grips along the edges do a fine job of keeping it put.
$35 at Amazon (Duo) $45 at Amazon (Grip) Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Photograph: Zagg A Fun Fabric Case Zagg Gear4 London Case I love cases that have some kind of fun texture—you're going to be touching and holding this thing a lot , after all. The London from Zagg fits this mold with a nice fabric exterior and responsive, metallic buttons. It feels lovely and looks classy. I only wish it didn't cost this much.
$60 at Amazon (S23) $60 at Amazon (S23+) $60 at Amazon (S23 Ultra) Photograph: Anker A 45-Watt Charger Anker 313 Charger Samsung doesn't include a charger in the box , so if you don't have one, get this one from Anker. It's one of the tiniest 45-watt charging adapters you'll find, and it's made to charge Samsung phones at the fastest speeds possible. It topped up my S23 Ultra in under 40 minutes from 30 percent. (I tested its output, and it indeed dished out close to 45 watts during the charge.) The plugs fold in, making it a great travel-friendly option, and it's pretty cheap.
The wattage is high enough that you can use this to recharge most laptops and tablets (maybe not a high-powered laptop). Just remember that only the S23+ and S23 Ultra support 45-watt charging. It doesn't mean you can't use the 45-watt charger with the Galaxy S23, which is restricted to 25-watt charging speeds, but you can save some cash with the 30-watt Anker Nano 3.
 You get the same perks for a little less.
$24 at Amazon Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Photograph: Cable Matters A Charging Cable Cable Matters USB-C to USB-C Thunderbolt 4 The Galaxy S23 series comes with a cable, but if you need a spare, go for this USB-C cable from Cable Matters. It can carry 100 watts of power, which means you can also use it to recharge your laptop or tablet, and it can transfer data at up to 40 Gbps. It supports DisplayPort Alt Mode, so you can hook your phone up to external monitors with USB-C and use Samsung's DeX mode (the desktop interface) when you need to do some work. We've got more recommendations in our Best USB-C Cables guide.
$28 at Amazon Photograph: Twelve South A Wireless Charger Twelve South PowerPic Mod Wireless Charger Take advantage of the wireless charging capabilities on your Samsung phone. Why fumble for a cable in the dark when you can just place your device on a stand and keep it topped up? I like Twelve South's PowerPic Mod Wireless Charger because it has two functions: It recharges your phone wirelessly, and when your phone's not on it, it can double as a picture frame/art piece. You'll just need to slide in a 4 x 6 photo between the resin. It's a smart touch and lets the charger better blend into your home. It's pricey, but we have tons of other great recommendations in our Best Wireless Chargers guide.
$51 at Amazon $60 at Twelve South Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Photograph: Samsung For Galaxy Lovers Samsung Wireless Charger Trio Got a Galaxy Watch5 and a pair of wireless earbuds that can recharge wirelessly? Then it's smart to get Samsung's Wireless Charger Trio. As the name suggests, there's a spot to recharge select Galaxy smartwatches (including the Watch4 and Watch5) and enough room on the main charging pad to juice up your phone and earbuds. It looks nice, comes with a 25-watt charging adapter and cable, and there's some flexibility on where you place your phone and earbuds thanks to the six charging coils. There's a Duo version ($40) if you don't need a spot for earbuds.
$50 at Amazon $90 at Samsung Photograph: Smartish Carry Your Phone Smartish Case Clinger Crossbody Lanyard This is a stylish way to carry around your phone and still be able to access it at a moment's notice, plus there are a few fun designs to choose from. You need to insert a loop into your case, then put the phone in the case and attach the clips to the loop. It's pretty simple, and it rests comfortably on my body. The only issue is, depending on the case you have it might restrict the USB-C charging port. (Your mileage might vary.) $25 at Amazon $25 at Smartish Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Photograph: Nimble A Portable Battery Nimble Champ This 10,000-mAh portable battery from Nimble should be more than enough to keep your device topped up for a few days. It can charge two devices at once via the USB-C and USB-A ports, and it's fairly compact. The battery is also housed in 73 percent post-consumer recycled plastic, comes in plastic-free packaging, and has a two-year warranty. Read our Best Portable Power Banks guide for more.
$50 at Nimble Photograph: Casetify Honorable Mentions Other Good Cases There are an insane amount of cases on the market. These are the others we like, just not as much as the ones above.
Casetify Impact Case for $72 : Casetify cases are fun because the designs are innumerable. (Look at this one with a cat !) I'm not a huge fan of the Casetify branding that's on the camera module, but maybe I'm just not trendy enough. I found the S Pen a little tough to access (I have a bad habit of biting my nails, so this might not be an issue for you). Otherwise, these are some great cases; it's just hard to justify the absurdly high price.
Vena Outcross Case for $14 : This is a fine case with clicky buttons. It's not very exciting, but it's cheap, and the edges around the screen and camera module are raised. Unfortunately, the bumper around the case is a little slippery.
Zagg Havana Case for $30 : Outside of the Denali Kickstand and the London above, this is my favorite Zagg case of the many the company sent my way. The buttons are clicky, it feels nice to hold, and there's solid protection around the edges.
Shldair Active Case for $65 : This unique-looking case has bumpers on the corners that stick out quite a bit—the idea is that the corners tend to hit the ground first, so this would offer superior protection. This isn't really a guarantee though, as I've had phones that fall flat on their screens like a belly flop. Still, it feels quite robust and protective, with decently raised edges and an easy-to-access S Pen (the case is available only for the S23 Ultra). There's a really nice wrist strap in the box to keep it swinging from your wrist, and despite the bulky design, wireless charging still works.
Spigen Ultra Hybrid OneTap Ring Case for $23 : This is one of the cheapest MagSafe cases, but it's available only for the Galaxy S23 Ultra. The magnetic connection is pretty strong—it hooked up to my MagSafe wireless charger with zero issues—but I'm not a huge fan of how the polycarbonate material feels.
Spigen Liquid Crystal Case for $16 : This is a solid silicone case with some fun designs to choose from (or you can stick with a completely clear version). I don't like that the buttons sound and feel squishy when you press them.
Spigen Rugged Armor Case for $17 : It's not pretty at all, maybe inoffensive at best. It doesn't feel tremendously rugged, but it's an otherwise fine case with responsive buttons.
Kate Spade Defensive Hardshell Case for $48 : Here's another nice clear case with a few fun designs to choose from. I especially like the white lines that run along the edges of the case. The only flaw is the S Pen on the S23 Ultra version isn't the easiest to access.
Smartish Wallet Slayer Vol. 1 for $30 : If you want to carry a few credit cards (or ID) with your phone instead of bringing along a wallet or purse, this case from Smartish does the job. It holds about three cards, and you can use the gap on the left to push them out. They stay in there pretty well—it took some really vigorous shaking for nearly a minute for the cards to come close to coming out. The only problems are that the buttons are a bit hard to press, it's bulky, and it completely blocks wireless charging capabilities.
UAG Pathfinder Case for $45 : Super into camo? Then this is the case for you! It ticks off all the boxes with grippy sides, an easy-to-access S Pen, and buttons that are effortless to press. I just don't think it's as rugged as the brand suggests.
UAG Plyo Clear Case for $50 : I'm not a fan of the extra design UAG added to this clear case, but it otherwise feels nice, has solid buttons, and there's a Plyo Pro version ($50) for the S23 Ultra that adds MagSafe support.
UAG Monarch Pro MagSafe Case for $80 : It's a bit much to spend on a case, even if it does have MagSafe support to use with third-party MagSafe accessories.
 The industrial design isn't too gaudy, and it functions fine with good edge protection around the screen. The S Pen is easy to access on the S23 Ultra model.
UAG Plasma Case for $45 : I don't know why you would want a case that looks like this, but if you're not offended by the design, then the only flaw I found is that the buttons require a little effort to press.
UAG Civilian Case for $50 : This is an attractive and simple case with a pleasant color scheme. I like the added grip around the bumper, though the buttons are a little stiff. I found it hard to push the S Pen back inside its housing, though this might only be an issue for nail-biters. It's also available for the S23+ and S23 Ultra.
Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Gear You’ll Be Able Buy Cars on Amazon Next Year Boone Ashworth Gear The Best USB Hubs and Docks for Connecting All Your Gadgets Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Deals on Electric Bikes and Accessories Adrienne So Photograph: Amazon Avoid These Cases Stay Away Many of these cases aren't horrible, there are simply better options out there.
Spigen Ultra Hybrid Galaxy Edition Zero One for $19 : Besides the long name, I didn't really like the somewhat sticky texture of the materials on the back. It's a fine case that has a unique look, but it just didn't feel too nice to hold. (It's available only for the S23 Ultra.) Vena vCommute Wallet Case for $25 : This case fits well, and the buttons gave me no trouble, but for some reason it extends the length of the phone quite a bit and might make bulkier charging cables incompatible with the phone. You can stow some cards in the wallet area, and while the back of the case is magnetic, the wallet disrupts all wireless charging capabilities.
Speck Presidio Perfect Mist Case for $33 : It looks a bit dull, but the buttons are tough to press, and the S Pen is difficult to access unless you have decent nails. You can do better at this price.
Speck Presidio Perfect-Clear Case for $40 : Be careful when you put this case on or the buttons will stick out in weird ways. Speaking of, the buttons aren't my favorite—requiring a tiny bit more effort than many of the cases above. The S Pen is very accessible though, and it's an otherwise solid clear case.
Speck Presidio Grip 2 Case for $45 : This case has grippy edges, not unlike the Incipio Grip above, and it feels really wonderful to hold. Unfortunately, the buttons require a bit of effort to press.
OtterBox Commuter Series Case for $40 : I usually like OtterBox's two-piece Commuter cases, which even cover up the USB-C charging port, but the volume and power buttons on the phone are just a little too stiff, which ruin the whole experience. Just stick with the Symmetry series at the top of this guide.
OtterBox Strada Folio Wallet Case for $70 : Every year I test the Strada case, and every year I hate it. It's difficult to take out the measly two cards that you can stuff into the folio cover, the buttons are stiff, and when the folio is closed up it doesn't quite stay straight.
UAG Flex Shield Plus Screen Protector for $50 : This is one of the worst screen protectors I've tried. The alignment stickers on the alignment tool weren't aligned out of the box, which meant my placement wasn't perfect. The edges of the protector feel sharp on the edges of S23 Ultra, and I'm still trying to get rid of the air bubbles on the screen. It's driving me nuts.
These Zagg Cases : Zagg sent me a huge box of its cases, and the ones I didn't care for are the Santa Cruz , Crystal Palace , Milan , and Everest Kickstand.
 It's largely the buttons; they're just too stiff and tough to press. The Everest, however, came bent out of the box.
Photograph: Otterbox How We Test Cases Case Study I've tested every case that came my way by donning them on the phones I have—the Galaxy S23 and Galaxy S23 Ultra. I check that all the ports, speakers, and microphone holes aren't covered and that the case perfectly fits the device. I then note how accessible the buttons are and if they're suddenly mushy or remain clicky. I verify that wireless charging still works and that the edges around the screen and raised enough to offer decent protection to the screen.
As much as I'd like to, I don't do drop tests. (I have a limited number of Samsung phones I can run through.) You should ignore many of the drop protection claims from these accessory companies. They may have tested that their case protects the phone from 10-foot drops, but that doesn't really mean anything. There's still a good chance your device can fall the wrong way and the glass will still crack—unless you opt for an ultra-rugged case with full coverage.
Reviews Editor X Topics Shopping Samsung Android phones smartphones cases Accessories and Peripherals Scott Gilbertson Scott Gilbertson Reece Rogers Carlton Reid Boone Ashworth Virginia Heffernan Boone Ashworth Boone Ashworth WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code +30% Off with this Samsung promo code Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Best Buy coupon: Score $300 off select laptops VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
