Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Lily Hay Newman Security Google Tightens Its Voice Assistant Rules Amid Privacy Backlash Photograph: VCG/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Application Human-computer interaction Personal assistant Company Alphabet Google End User Consumer Sector Consumer services Source Data Speech Technology Natural language processing Machine learning After months of revelations that smart speakers get a very human intelligence boost from contractors who transcribe and review customer audio snippets, the mea culpas are flowing in. At the end of August, Apple issued a rare apology about how it had handled human review of audio for Siri.
 Amazon has made it easier for users to understand how their data might be used and control whether or not it is eligible for review at all. And now Google is joining the fray with a set of privacy announcements about Google Assistant.
Google paused human audio review worldwide in July after reports that a contractor was leaking audio snippets in Dutch. Early Monday, the company said in a blog post that human review will now resume with increased options for user data control. The company emphasizes that sending audio for review has never been the default mode on its devices. But you'll now be prompted to review your settings choice if your devices are currently opted in to the "Voice & Audio Activity" program that potentially sends your recordings out for vetting.
"We believe you should be able to easily understand how your data is used and why, so you can make choices that are right for you," reads the post, which WIRED reviewed in advance of its publication. "Recently we’ve heard concerns about our process in which language experts can listen to and transcribe audio data from the Google Assistant to help improve speech technology for different languages. It's clear that we fell short of our high standards in making it easy for you to understand how your data is used, and we apologize." In addition to adding more prompts and information about the Voice & Audio Activity settings, Google says that it has taken steps to improve filters meant to catch and immediately delete recordings made in error—those that are created when a smart speaker mistakenly thinks it has detected its so-called wake word. Those errant recordings have the potential to capture even more sensitive audio than those made when a user is intentionally speaking to a smart assistant. Google also says that it will soon launch a feature that lets users choose how sensitive their Google Assistant devices are to "hearing" their wake word. For example, you might set a device to be more sensitive in a room that often has a lot of background noise, and less sensitive in your bedroom. This will ideally help cut down on false positives.
Perhaps most importantly, Google says that by the end of the year it will update the Google Assistant policies to "vastly reduce" the amount of audio data the company stores. For accounts that have opted into Voice & Audio Activity, Google will now delete the "majority" of audio data older than a few months. This means that even if you've chosen to share audio snippets with Google, the company still won't keep them forever.
"One of the principles we strive toward is minimizing the amount of data we store, and we’re applying this to the Google Assistant as well," the Google post reads.
Business What Sam Altman’s Firing Means for the Future of OpenAI Steven Levy Business Sam Altman’s Sudden Exit Sends Shockwaves Through OpenAI and Beyond Will Knight Gear Humanity’s Most Obnoxious Vehicle Gets an Electric (and Nearly Silent) Makeover Boone Ashworth Security The Startup That Transformed the Hack-for-Hire Industry Andy Greenberg For those who understand the current status and capabilities of machine learning, "smart" assistants' reliance on human quality checks may not have come as much of a surprise. But for the many people who thought they were just talking to a machine, it was jarring to learn that real people might have listened in, and for how long those recordings and transcripts are stored.
About three weeks after Google paused audio snippet review, Apple did as well on August 2. With the release of iOS 13, the company is resuming the practice, but it is now employing all reviewers directly rather than contracting with third parties. And in the new mobile operating system, Siri's audio recording retention is now off by default. Amazon, which has perhaps received the most scrutiny for both its Alexa audio review process and its snippet retention policies, offers the option for users to opt-out of sharing audio clips for transcription. The company launched a dedicated " Alexa Privacy Hub " in May and added the voice command, "Alexa, delete everything I said today," soon after.
Microsoft said at the end of August that it no longer uses human review for audio snippets from Skype's translate feature or Cortana on Xbox.
 Similarly, Facebook said that it would stop human review on audio from Messenger—although it was only revealed to have used human transcription for its Portal hardware last week. All the major smart assistant developers maintain that audio snippets are fully anonymized before they go out to reviewers and most specifically say that less than one percent of total interactions with smart assistants actually get reviewed by a person.
These changes all represent real progress on improving privacy protections within smart assistants. But while more companies have at least acknowledged their mistakes, the improvements have come piecemeal across the industry, creating the potential that some exposures have been overlooked. At least now, consumers are getting more information about what really makes smart assistants so smart—and can use that information to decide how comfortable they really are inviting a sometimes-live mic into their homes.
An exclusive look inside Apple’s A13 bionic chip WIRED's 13 must-read books for fall New clues show how Russia’s grid hackers aimed for physical destruction The unbuilt streets of California's ghost metropolis One scientist's quest to bring DNA sequencing to every sick kid 👁 How do machines learn ? Plus, read the latest news on artificial intelligence 🎧 Things not sounding right? Check out our favorite wireless headphones , soundbars , and Bluetooth speakers Senior Writer X Topics Google artificial intelligence Google Home Andy Greenberg Lily Hay Newman David Gilbert Dell Cameron Andy Greenberg Reece Rogers Matt Burgess Lily Hay Newman Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
