Indaba Organisers Affiliated Communities Sponsorship Prospectus PROGRAMME Speakers Workshops Practicals Research in Africa Showcase POSTERS SHORT PAPERS AFRICAN DATASETS AI PRODUCT DEMOS Accelerating Growth Through AI/ML Ideathon Google Outreach & Mentorship Programme Guidance for staying in Accra Travel Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Recognising our Reviewers Code of Ethics and Conduct IndabaX Awards Kambule Doctoral Award Alele-Williams Masters Award Maathai Impact Award Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Reports Past Editions 2017 2018 2019 2022 Indaba Organisers Affiliated Communities Sponsorship Prospectus PROGRAMME Speakers Workshops Practicals Research in Africa Showcase POSTERS SHORT PAPERS AFRICAN DATASETS AI PRODUCT DEMOS Accelerating Growth Through AI/ML Ideathon Google Outreach & Mentorship Programme Guidance for staying in Accra Travel Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Recognising our Reviewers Code of Ethics and Conduct IndabaX Awards Kambule Doctoral Award Alele-Williams Masters Award Maathai Impact Award Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Reports Past Editions 2017 2018 2019 2022 Short Papers We invite submissions of a Short paper for the Deep Learning Indaba 2023 that will take place from 3 rd September to 9 th September, 2023 in Accra, Ghana. Submissions are limited to only selected DLI2023 attendees who wish to have their research considered for Short Papers [Non Archival] by the Deep Learning Indaba. Authors of Short Papers will also be expected to present their research as posters during the Research in Africa Showcase Days.
Submission of Short Papers is to be done using the DLI2023 registration form that will be shared with participants by the applications and selections committee. For details regarding submission of Posters, please refer to the Poster Guidelines section.
We welcome research papers, position papers, survey papers, or papers that inform about neglected/abandoned areas of study where AI could be impactful. Papers may introduce new theory, methodology, applications or product demonstrations. Papers are published in a non-archival format and may have been published in other venues before or be published in other venues in the future.
Submissions may include, but are not limited to, the following topics: Artificial Intelligence, Computational Neuroscience, Deep Learning, Knowledge Reasoning, Machine Learning, Multi-agent Systems, Statistical Reasoning, Computational Theory, Computer Vision, Natural Language Processing, Data Mining and, Robotics. We also welcome papers about applications of AI to Health, Education, Agriculture, Fairness, Ethics and, Transparency in AI, AI & Arts, AI & Politics, etc.
Each submission will fall into one of these 4 tracks: Machine learning Algorithms Systems and Applications Position papers Product demonstrations Work may be previously published, completed, or ongoing. The work should include at least one African researcher either as main author or co-author.
Submission To contribute to the DLI2023 Publications Track, please submit a Short Paper of your work. Short Paper must be formatted using the DLI Author Kit.
Deadlines for Short Papers: 8 July 2023 – Full Submission Extended Deadline – 31st July 2023 4 August 2023 – Reviews Released 21 August 2023 – Pre-Indaba Camera Ready 25 September 2023 – Final Post Indaba Camera Ready [After feedback from poster sessions and Indaba week] Short Papers must be at most 6 pages: 4 pages for the body of the paper and 2 pages for references. The optional ethics statement, contribution statement, and acknowledgements can be placed in either the body of the paper or the reference pages.
Think of your Short Paper as an advertisement for the full paper rather than an exhaustive summary of its results.
Paper submissions will be made here https://openreview.net/gr Sponsorship Prospectus Kambule and Maathai Awards Copyright © Deep Learning Indaba 2017 - 2023. All Rights Reserved.
