Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages VentureBeat special issues VentureBeat publishes special issues that explore a central topic from a variety of angles. Here you can find all the special issues we have published to date, in reverse chronological order.
A Roadmap for Sustainable Data Centers In this special issue, we cast a spotlight on a critical concern in the realm of information technology: the evolution of sustainable data centers. IT and data leaders are now making efforts to curb energy consumption and reduce their environmental footprint in line with organizational sustainability goals. It’s also smart: it can save costs and thus improve the bottom line as well.
The future of the data center: Handling greater and greater demands Companies, regardless of size, are turning to High-performance. computing (HPC) as they are facing an unprecedented influx of data, compelling them to seek innovative solutions to handle and leverage it effectively. In this special issue, we delve into the surging adoption of HPC and explore the emergent forces propelling high-performance capabilities.
Building the foundation for customer data quality Customer data is also a double-edged sword. It can be a source of competitive advantage, but also a source of risk and liability. That’s why building a solid foundation for acquiring and using customer data is crucial for any enterprise that wants to succeed in the digital age. In this Special Issue, we take a look at the best practices, challenges and opportunities for doing so.
Data centers in 2023: How to do more with less Economic concerns have hit harder than expected so far this year — layoffs, rumors of a slowdown, and now the recent banking crisis. In this special issue, we look at how some leading companies are navigating this cost-conscious era. Turns out, many of them are still investing in their data center infrastructure — the name of the game is more often “efficiency,” rather than outright investment cuts.
The quest for Nirvana: Applying AI at scale In this special issue, we look at real-life AI use cases, and efforts by companies to scale those cases. Featuring stories from end-user companies in banking, insurance, healthcare and other industries, we explore how they took the time to get their initial AI projects under control, and then were able to launch their AI transformation more ambitiously by implementing technology, processes, governance and strategy across the organization.
The CIO agenda: The 2023 roadmap for IT leaders This special issue starts the new year with a road map to help CIOs impress the board and stakeholders by getting the most value from data analytics, cloud platforms and even the metaverse. It also looks at how AI and automation can help achieve sustainability, overcome biases, address supply chain challenges, enforce security through the tech stack and more.
Zero trust: The new security paradigm We look at zero-trust architectures from all angles, including why companies are getting it wrong. We also dig into Kubernetes deployments, endpoint security and multicloud and supply chain management.
How data privacy is transforming marketing Data privacy isn’t the domain of just IT departments, CISOs or the compliance officers. Volumes of customer data are collected and analyzed by marketing teams every day. New technology — often driven by artificial intelligence and automation — offer new ways to target potential customers, personalize messaging, set pricing, recommend products and predict behavior.
Intelligent sustainability Tech leaders must work toward energy efficiency to meet regulatory compliance, lower costs, attract and retain customers, and simply do the right thing. There’s no easy path to intelligent sustainability, but in this special report, VentureBeat looks at tools and practices you can use to make it achievable Intelligent security We dive into how and why enterprises must use artificial intelligence and machine learning to thwart increasingly sophisticated attacks.
The metaverse: How close are we? We look at what we know about the metaverse and the companies driving it, its security risks, what the gaming industry is showing us, how the metaverse could impact the environment, how to ensure it’s open and interoperable.
AI and the future of health care As health care providers and vendors work to use AI and data to improve patient care, health outcomes, medical research, and more, they face what are now standard AI challenges. Data is difficult and messy. Machine learning models struggle with bias and accuracy. And ethical challenges abound. But there’s a heightened need to solve these problems when they’re couched within the daily life-and-death context of health care.
Automation and jobs in the new normal We examine this tension and explore the good, bad, and unknown of how automation could affect jobs in the immediate and near future. Even as automation creates exciting new opportunities, it’s important to bear in mind that those opportunities will not be distributed equally. Some jobs are more vulnerable to automation than others, and uneven access to reskilling and other crucial factors will mean that some workers will be left behind.
AI and surveillance in the age of coronavirus With unprecedented and historic impact, the pandemic has changed everything. In this issue, we focus on one of the most immediate needs: finding the balance between safety and freedom. We ponder this tension through the lens of the technologies that are involved in contact tracing and quarantine tracking and enforcement.
AI and security The threats are sometimes more sophisticated than ever — but often not. As attack and defense systems evolve, the need for human expertise becomes more imperative — not less. And some of the seemingly most onerous threats, like deepfakes and the increasing presence of AI-powered cameras, have practical and political solutions.
Power in AI Power can be won, or taken away. Power can be given, or taken back. And power in AI, it turns out, amplifies all of the power structures (and disempowerment structures) that already exist in business, government, and society.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
