Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release VensureHR Sets Industry Standards with Live 24/7 Support Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Round-the-clock support to assist customers and their employees with all their HR needs.
CHANDLER, Ariz.–(BUSINESS WIRE)–November 16, 2023– VensureHR a leading provider of HR, and Payroll services and a Vensure Employer Solutions company, announced the rollout of its 24/7 live support to provide round-the-clock assistance to its customers.
The VensureHR support team consisting of experienced and knowledgeable professionals is available to help customers and employees with a wide range of tasks, including: Portal Maintenance: Profile management, password resets, W-2 questions, first-time registration, paystub support, I-9 approvals, and more.
Onboarding Support: Assistance with forms and submission issues.
Payroll Management: Paycheck and deduction inquiries, questions about pay slips and pay rate changes, payroll reporting, employee payroll accuracy support, and more.
Reporting: Standard reporting setup and guidance.
“We remain true to our mission of continuously elevating our customer experience through our diverse range of services and technology offerings,” said Alex Campos, CEO of Vensure Employer Solutions.
 “ VensureHR has built a longstanding reputation for its people-focused approach, a key element in instilling confidence in our customers. The introduction of 24/7 support is another example of the company’s ongoing efforts to provide exceptional service.” “Today’s world operates very differently than what it used to be. As businesses grow, we understand the need for prompt assistance and ensure our customers can run operations smoothly around the clock. Not only do we make sure they get the help they need but we extend the same support to their employees,” said Esta Pittard, chief operating officer of Vensure Employer Solutions.
“The 24/7 Live Support, guarantees our customers that we’re there whenever they need assistance, ensuring a seamless experience.” The addition of round-the-clock support is one of the first of its kind and is a testament to VensureHR’s continued commitment to the success of its customers. 24/7 support is available by phone and ticketing system to empower customers and their employees to manage all HR functions and needs with ease. This will be an added advantage for administrators who can now manage tactical tasks at any time of day, and for employees who can address their benefit or payroll-related queries after work hours and receive prompt responses.
About VensureHR VensureHR is the nation’s fastest-growing, privately held HR and payroll services provider serving small and medium businesses across the United States. As a business unit of Vensure Employer Solutions, the company offers industry-leading services in payroll, human resources, benefits, risk management, and workers’ compensation. VensureHR is committed to supporting small and medium businesses to achieve their business goals by reducing complexities around HR and employee management.
About Vensure Employer Solutions Vensure Employer Solutions is the largest privately held organization in the HR technology and service sector, providing a comprehensive portfolio of solutions, including HR/HCM technology, managed services, and global business process outsourcing (BPO). The company and its service providers collectively serve over 95,000 businesses and process over $135B in annual payroll. As a “One Employer Solution” headquartered in Chandler, Arizona, Vensure helps thousands of businesses streamline and grow their operations with custom strategies that benefit employers and their employees. Find out more by visiting www.vensure.com.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231116512967/en/ Media Contact: Katy Caughman-Peacock katy@mediafrenzyglobal.com 225-333-8206 Vensure Employer Solutions Contact Information: To learn more about Vensure Employer Solutions, please contact: communications@vensure.com Office: 800.409.8958 VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
