Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Tangram Vision’s AI-powered 3D sensor could transform computer vision in robotics Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn Tangram Vision's HiFi 3D Sensor (Credit: Tangram Vision) Are you ready to bring more awareness to your brand? Consider becoming a sponsor for The AI Impact Tour. Learn more about the opportunities here.
Tangram Vision , a startup building software and hardware for robotic perception, unveiled a new 3D depth sensor today called HiFi that packs powerful computer vision capabilities into an off-the-shelf product priced at $549.
The sensor aims to “make it dead simple to add AI-enhanced 3D data to robots,” Adam Rodnitzky, cofounder and COO of Tangram Vision, told VentureBeat.
HiFi combines high-resolution 3D sensing with AI processing power and computer vision algorithms built directly into the device.
This allows it to simplify challenging tasks like calibration, navigation and running neural networks that are critical for robotics applications but often require teams of specialized engineers to implement.
VB Event The AI Impact Tour Connect with the enterprise AI community at VentureBeat’s AI Impact Tour coming to a city near you! “Traditionally, robotics has relied quite a lot on sensors,” said Rodnitzky. “But there’s actually a lot of not-so-fun stuff that comes with adding sensors to robotic platforms, like sensor calibration and maintenance. With HiFi, we’ve built all that complex software right into the device itself.” Accelerating robotics development By handling these complex tasks onboard, HiFi allows even small teams to tap into sophisticated computer vision capabilities and speed up development of robotics products.
Tangram Vision is launching HiFi on the crowdfunding website Kickstarter for up to 50% off the $549 list price, aiming to get the sensor into the hands of a wide community of hackers, developers and robotics companies. The company previously used Kickstarter to launch an early 3D sensor prototype and cited the platform’s access to developers as a key reason for returning.
Disrupting the robotics vision market An out-of-the-box solution like HiFi has the potential to significantly move the needle on adoption of computer vision capabilities and speed development cycles in robotics.
Many robotics companies rely heavily on some form of computer vision, but actually implementing and maintaining these systems can become an expensive undertaking. According to a recent McKinsey report , the primary challenges to adoption include the capital cost of robots and a company’s general lack of experience with automation.
If Tangram Vision can deliver with HiFi, it could mean huge time and cost savings for any organization looking to integrate computer vision and AI into their robotic systems.
With a streamlined product designed squarely for the needs of robotic applications, the young startup seems poised to make waves in the red hot AI robotics space if it can deliver on its promises. But having launched only in 2020, Tangram Vision still has a lot to prove.
Run by robotics veterans The company is led by experienced veterans with roots in computer vision and robotics, including time at early pioneer Occipital.
 Tangram Vision will need to leverage that experience as it faces off against much larger and more established sensor incumbents in the market.
But its focus directly on the emerging niche of robotic vision represents a calculated bet that this space is ripe for disruption by applying the right software smarts.
“We think we’ve built something pretty special in HiFi,” said Rodnitzky. “We can’t wait to get it in the hands of as many roboticist and developers as possible to really see it shine.” VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
The AI Impact Tour Join us for an evening full of networking and insights at VentureBeat's AI Impact Tour, coming to San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles! VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
