X Tech Money Home Wellness Home Internet Energy Deals Sleep Price Finder more Feature Stories How Close Is That Photo to the Truth? What to Know in the Age of AI AI can let you lie with photos. But you don't want a photo untouched by digital processing.
By Stephen Shankland The Secret Life of the 500+ Cables That Run the Internet Laced across the cold depths of the world's oceans is a network of multimillion-dollar cables, which have become the vital connections of our online lives.
By Stephen Shankland What If Your EV Could Power Your Home During a Blackout? Bidirectional charging is shaping up to be a game changer in how we manage our energy use. But first, it needs to show up in more EVs.
By Dan Avery Latest How Close Is That Photo to the Truth? What to Know in the Age of AI AI can let you lie with photos. But you don't want a photo untouched by digital processing.
By Stephen Shankland What If Your EV Could Power Your Home During a Blackout? Bidirectional charging is shaping up to be a game changer in how we manage our energy use. But first, it needs to show up in more EVs.
By Dan Avery Alternative Broadband Networks: Affordable Internet for the People, One Rooftop at a Time Volunteer-based organizations like NYC Mesh aim to close the digital divide and build real-life connections.
By Laura Michelle Davis Inside Intel's Chip Factory, I Saw the Future. It's Plain Old Glass Intel is moving its processors to a new foundation to try to keep up with exploding demand for new computing horsepower.
By Stephen Shankland I Visited Samsung's Home Turf to See if Foldable Phones Are Really the Future Samsung and other makers of Android phones see foldable designs as the key to where the smartphone is headed. But in Seoul, foldables are already everywhere.
By Lisa Eadicicco The Secret Life of the 500+ Cables That Run the Internet Laced across the cold depths of the world's oceans is a network of multimillion-dollar cables, which have become the vital connections of our online lives.
By Stephen Shankland AI's Teachable Moment: How ChatGPT Is Transforming the Classroom Teachers and students are already harnessing the power of AI, with an eye toward the future.
By Mark Serrels How Generative AI Helps Bring Big Design Ideas to Life Commentary: Generative AI can help democratize 3D design, but it won't replace skilled artistry anytime soon.
By James Bricknell The New Age of Hiring: AI Is Changing the Game for Job Seekers Automation, algorithms and machine learning are taking over recruitment and hiring. How do we compete with the rise of robots? By Laura Michelle Davis Work All Over the World Without Ruining It: Ethics for Digital Nomads Remote workers who take root in local communities are accused of being gentrifiers and colonialists, but there are ways to minimize your impact.
By Katie Collins More From CNET Deals Reviews Best Products Gift Guide Shopping Extension Videos Software Downloads About About CNET Newsletters Sitemap Careers Policies Cookie Settings Help Center Licensing Privacy Policy Terms of Use Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information instagram youtube tiktok facebook twitter flipboard
