Search @mouseenter="selectedIndex = index + '-' + key"> Search Result Tech Science Life Social Good Entertainment SHOP THE BEST Travel Product Reviews DEALS Newsletters VIDEOS > > Get ready: SpaceX Starship will try to fly again soon Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Flipboard Elon Musk will try again with Starship.
Credit: SpaceX Elon Musk lost his claim as having the most powerful space -worthy rocket when NASA blasted its own mega rocket to the moon last November.
But the SpaceX founder could win back the title with his company's next big project: Starship.
Though the company was unsuccessful during its first try on April 20 — the skyscraping rocket and spacecraft blasted off only to tumble out of control moments later and explode — SpaceX is confident its Starship will reach space soon, breaking records and making history.
UPDATE: Nov. 16, 2023, 4:03 p.m. EST SpaceX, having received its launch license, plans to launch Starship for a second time on Saturday, Nov. 18. The 20-minute test window will open at 8 a.m. ET.
During its next orbital test flight, the colossal booster needs to separate about three minutes after liftoff and drop in the Gulf of Mexico, according to federal filings.
 It should then fly in space around Earth at an altitude of over 150 miles before splashing down off the Hawaiian coast.
 The whole journey should last about 1.5 hours, if it goes as planned.
This is a crucial demonstration of hardware that NASA is depending on to get humans back on the moon in the next few years. And, if successful, it'll mean Musk is one small step closer to realizing his personal dream of building a city on Mars.
The billionaire business magnate has oversold timelines in the past. Here's what we know so far about when SpaceX will try this daunting feat again.
SEE ALSO: What is the SpaceX Starship? Starship is a super-heavy-lift rocket and spacecraft, built to carry immense cargo and numerous astronauts into deep space.
The 400-foot-tall stainless steel tower looms over NASA's rocket, the Space Launch System.
 It would take about five billboards stacked on top of the latter to measure up to Musk's space vehicle. SpaceX estimates its rocket also has about twice as much thrust.
The rocket is made of stainless steel, a material Musk is particularly fond of due to its relatively low price. Unlike NASA's mega moon rocket, which flies on super-chilled liquid hydrogen and oxygen , this beast is fueled with 10 million pounds of liquid methane and oxygen. The new fuel can be stored at more manageable temperatures than liquid hydrogen, meaning it doesn't need as much insulation and is less prone to leaks , a problem that often stymies NASA launches.
SpaceX's Starship is made of stainless steel and runs on liquid methane.
Credit: SpaceX Starship is intended to eventually evolve into a fully reusable launch and landing system, designed for trips to the moon, Mars, and other destinations. Its reusability is "the holy grail of space," Musk said at a company event in South Texas in February 2022, because it will make spaceflight more affordable to the average person.
"It's a very hard thing to do," he said. "It's only barely possible with the physics of Earth." NASA tapped SpaceX to develop a human landing system version of Starship.
Credit: SpaceX How will NASA use Starship? NASA plans to use Starships to land astronauts on the moon during Artemis III and IV , two upcoming missions which could come as early as 2025 and 2028, respectively.
The space agency has tapped SpaceX to develop a human landing system version of Starship with a $4 billion contract. As part of the deal, the company will need to demonstrate an uncrewed test flight to the moon beforehand.
During Artemis III, Starship is supposed to transfer astronauts from NASA's Orion spacecraft to the lunar south pole and back. But in the fourth mission, Starship would dock at a moon-orbiting space station, the yet-to-be-built Gateway , and ferry astronauts back and forth to the moon.
NASA administrator Bill Nelson told reporters in December 2022 that SpaceX was on schedule with the contract and intends to do an uncrewed moon landing toward the end of this year. That mission would be followed by another landing with astronauts in late 2024.
But NASA's confidence in Starship seems to have waned since the summer. During an Artemis news conference in August, the space agency's Jim Free, associate administrator of exploration systems, told reporters NASA may end up changing the Artemis III mission objectives if slips in the schedule keep occurring.
"My concern is the same because they haven't launched," Free said.
When is Starship's space launch? SpaceX plans to launch Starship on Saturday, Nov.18. The 20-minute test window will open at 8 a.m. ET.
The company has already tried to fly Starship once but didn't make it to space.
The rocket launched on April 20, exploding 24 miles above the Gulf of Mexico about four minutes later. The rocket didn't separate from its colossal booster and flipped as it fell in the air back toward Earth. SpaceX had said the self-destruct system was commanded for both the booster and ship after several of the engines didn’t fire. Some debris plummeted into the ocean after the rocket exploded on its descent.
In a more extensive statement released Sept. 8 , SpaceX said the aft end of the booster caught fire from leaking fuel, which severed connection to the primary flight computer.
"This led to a loss of communications to the majority of booster engines and, ultimately, control of the vehicle," according to the statement. "SpaceX has since implemented leak mitigations and improved testing on both engine and booster hardware." SpaceX's Starship didn't make it to orbit during its first attempt to fly in space on April 20, 2023. It appeared to explode on its descent about four minutes after liftoff.
Credit: SpaceX Additionally, the company said it increased the rocket's fire suppression system, reinforced the launchpad, and installed a flame deflector to address damage caused by the launch.
SpaceX also provided further insight into the explosion. Though the vehicle was ordered to self destruct, there was "an unexpected delay" in activation, meaning aerodynamic pressure ultimately caused Starship to break apart, not the explosives — the former being a possible cause reported by Mashable on April 22. SpaceX officials say they've since made improvements to the self-destruct system.
The six-month delay between the first launch attempt and the upcoming second one was due to the company's need for the Federal Aviation Administration to issue a new launch license. The agency had opened a mishap investigation following the failed April test. It asked SpaceX to satisfy 63 corrective actions before doing so. After consulting with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service on the potential environmental impact, the FAA granted the license Wednesday, Nov. 15.
The second flight test will "debut a hot-stage separation system and a new electronic Thrust Vector Control (TVC) system for Super Heavy Raptor engines, in addition to reinforcements to the pad foundation and a water-cooled steel flame deflector, among many other enhancements," according to SpaceX.
Where will Starship launch? Perhaps surprisingly, Starship won't lift off from Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Florida, where most space fans are accustomed to watching historically significant launches.
Instead, it will take off from Boca Chica, Texas, at SpaceX's own spaceport, known as Starbase. Eventually, the company will launch the rocket from a site under construction in the outer perimeter of the famous Florida pad that shot Apollo 11 to the moon.
"Their plan is that they're going to do a few test flights there" in South Texas, Nelson said. "Once they have the confidence, they will bring the missions to the Cape." Want more science and tech news delivered straight to your inbox? Sign up for Mashable's Light Speed newsletter today.
How can I watch the Starship launch? If you're not on the list to get onto SpaceX's private Starbase but you're in the South Texas area, you could try viewing future flight tests from a public beach on South Padre Island, such as Isla Blanca Park.
How a NASA moon mission survived a death spiral in space NASA is back in the moon business. Here's what that means.
NASA's monstrous moon rocket is an overpriced, political beast SpaceX's mighty Falcon Heavy rocket blasts off on a secret mission How a NASA nuclear rocket engine could unleash the solar system For viewers at home, SpaceX will start a live broadcast of the launch countdown about 35 minutes before liftoff, which could be anytime between 8 and 8:20 a.m. ET Saturday. The livestream feed will be available on SpaceX's website , and live updates will be posted on X , the social platform owned by Musk.
You can watch the previous launch, from ignition to explosion, here, starting at 44:54: How likely is Starship to succeed? Well, SpaceX already struck out on the first launch , and that wasn't entirely unexpected.
"We cleared the (launch) tower, which honestly, was our only hope," said Kate Tice, a quality systems engineering manager for the company, during the live launch broadcast.
SpaceX has launched partial prototypes of Starship to practice landing, and several exploded or crashed in the process.
One succeeded in returning unscathed, however, in May 2021, after flying about six miles up in the sky.
Musk, who doesn't parse words when it comes to the realities of spaceflight, once said Starship's test in space wasn't likely to succeed on the first try.
"There's a lot of risk associated with this first launch, so I would not say that it is likely to be successful," he said during a video conference with a National Academies panel in 2021. "But I think we will make a lot of progress." Administrator Nelson congratulated SpaceX on the bold effort April 20, stating that great achievements through history have demanded "some level of calculated risk." What is SpaceX's plan for Mars? The SpaceX founder's ultimate vision is to use a fleet of Starships to send 1 million humans to Mars by 2050.
To be clear, Musk doesn't just want to establish a place for people to visit but a self-sustaining city. He imagines that, with a bit of warming, humans could restore a thick atmosphere and oceans on Mars, making it a more hospitable environment, even able to grow crops.
"There's a fundamental juncture in the history of really any civilization on a single planet, which is, do you get to the second planet, or do you not?" Musk told the National Academies in 2021. "I propose we do, and I think we should as soon as possible." SpaceX test fired a Starship prototype spacecraft on the ground in December.
Credit: SpaceX The spacecraft would be spacious enough for 100 passengers, along with their luggage, plus the materials to build homes, businesses, rocket fuel stations, and iron foundries.
The journey getting there would be long, Musk said, but the Starship would have entertainment , such as zero-gravity games, movies, lectures, and a restaurant.
"It can't feel cramped or boring," he said at the International Astronautical Congress in 2016, in Guadalajara, Mexico. "It'll be really fun to go. You'll have a great time." Note: A version of this article was originally published Feb. 4, 2023. It has been updated to reflect progress in Starship's launch campaign.
Topics SpaceX NASA Elisha Sauers is the space and future tech reporter for Mashable, interested in asteroids, astronauts, and astro nuts. In over 15 years of reporting, she's covered a variety of topics, including health, business, and government, with a penchant for FOIA and other public records requests. She previously worked for The Virginian-Pilot in Norfolk, Virginia, and The Capital in Annapolis, Maryland, now known as The Capital-Gazette.
 Her work has earned numerous state awards, including the Virginia Press Association's top honor, Best in Show , and national recognition for narrative storytelling. In her first year covering space for Mashable, Sauers grabbed a National Headliner Award for beat reporting. Send space tips and story ideas to [email protected] or text 443-684-2489. Follow her on Twitter at @elishasauers.
Loading...
Subscribe TECH SCIENCE LIFE SOCIAL GOOD ENTERTAINMENT BEST PRODUCTS DEALS About Mashable Contact Us We're Hiring Newsletters Sitemap About Ziff Davis Privacy Policy Terms of Use Advertise Accessibility Do Not Sell My Personal Information AdChoices
