Toggle Navigation News Events TNW Conference 2024 June 20 & 21, 2024 TNW Vision: 2024 All events Spaces Programs Newsletters Partner with us Jobs Contact News news news news Latest Deep tech Sustainability Ecosystems Data and security Fintech and ecommerce Future of work More Startups and technology Investors and funding Government and policy Corporates and innovation Gadgets & apps Early bird Business passes are 90% SOLD OUT 🎟️ Buy now before they are gone → Sustainability This new EV supercharger on wheels recharges in just 6 minutes It's like a powerbank — but for your car For UK battery startup NyoBolt, six seems to be the magic number. First, in June it showcased an EV that could be fully charged in just six minutes (a claimed record). And today it unveiled a new kind of supercharger that can also be recharged in — you guessed it — six minutes.
Dubbed Bolt-ee, it essentially looks like a four-wheeled metal box with an interactive touchscreen for a face. Unlike fixed charging stations, this fast-charging, direct current, 300kW device is fully mobile.
“Bolt-ee can reach a parked vehicle in any bay, delivering up to 100 miles of range in under 10 minutes, with a battery life of over 10,000 charging cycles,” the company told TNW.
Bolt-ee was designed to solve one of the biggest barriers preventing the widespread adoption of electric cars — a lack of charging infrastructure.
Globally, 14% of all new cars in 2022 sold were electric, up from 9% in 2021. In Europe, that figure is higher, at 22%.
However, the booming demand for EVs risks outpacing the supply of the technology needed to charge them. In 2021, the EU had an estimated 375,000 public charging stations, but experts predict it will need to build at least 3 million new ones by 2030.
Obstacles such as planning permission, lengthy construction works, and connection to the grid have all delayed progress.
The Bolt-ee looks to sidestep these hurdles. It acts like a massive power bank — but for your car. Aside from being used in homes, car parks, and gas stations, the startup says the mobile charger could also be placed aboard recovery vehicles to help drivers stranded on the side of the road because they’re out of juice.
“NyoBolt’s ready-to-deploy technology, which will go into production in early 2024, will help accelerate the adoption of EVs — particularly for drivers who may not be able to charge at home,” said the company’s chief scientist and co-founder Professor Clare Grey.
Founded in 2020, NyoBolt has already secured almost $100mn in funding, according to Dealroom data. It operates an anode-manufacturing facility in Cambridge, UK, and recently opened a new battery factory in Boston, US.
Back in June, the startup unveiled an electric sports car concept based on the Lotus Elise that could be fully recharged in less than six minutes. The car was fitted with a lightweight battery pack developed by NyoBolt that provides a claimed range of about 250km on a single charge.
NyoBolt’s VP of engineering Steve Hutchins said his team have charged and discharged their battery at this incredibly fast rate over 2500 times with a total degradation in the battery’s ability to hold electricity of less than 15%.
How is that possible you may be wondering? Basically, it comes down to tinkering with lithium-ion batteries to accept more electrical charge in a smaller amount of time.
“To put a lot of power in, you need to get a lot of current through it. To get a lot of current through, a lot of charge needs to flow in and out of the materials,” explained Nyobolt co-founder and CEO Sai Shivareddy.
Essentially, NyoBolt has invented a new type of material to accept that level of power — but is remaining hush-hush on the details.
In an industry where range anxiety and slow charging times still remain a significant hurdle, a battery with a six-minute charging time could be a game-changer. Whether these battery packs could be scaled up to millions of units however remains to be seen.
Story by Siôn Geschwindt Siôn is a reporter at TNW. From startups to tech giants, he covers the length and breadth of the European tech ecosystem. With a background (show all) Siôn is a reporter at TNW. From startups to tech giants, he covers the length and breadth of the European tech ecosystem. With a background in environmental science, Siôn has a bias for solutions delivering environmental and social impact at scale.
Get the TNW newsletter Get the most important tech news in your inbox each week.
Also tagged with Electric vehicle Startup company Story by Siôn Geschwindt Popular articles 1 I swapped my car for an electric cargo bike 2 How can social impact startups influence global change? 3 EV startup Volta Trucks files for bankruptcy amid battery supply woes 4 Croatia wants to turn this superhot underground lake into a 16MW geothermal power plant 5 London Marathon turns to carbon removals in race to net zero Related Articles deep tech Multiverse Computing deploys quantum technology to predict floods sustainability 140-year-old ocean heat tech could supply islands with limitless energy Join TNW All Access Watch videos of our inspiring talks for free → deep tech How Europe is racing to resolve its AI sovereignty woes deep tech Exercise bike inspired by Ukraine war provides backup power during emergencies The heart of tech More TNW Media Events Programs Spaces Newsletters Jobs in tech About TNW Partner with us Jobs Terms & Conditions Cookie Statement Privacy Statement Editorial Policy Masthead Copyright © 2006—2023, The Next Web B.V. Made with <3 in Amsterdam.
