The Verge homepage The Verge homepage The Verge The Verge logo.
/ Tech / Reviews / Science / Entertainment / More Menu Expand Tech The latest tech news about the world's best (and sometimes worst) hardware, apps, and much more. From top companies like Google and Apple to tiny startups vying for your attention, Verge Tech has the latest in what matters in technology daily.
Featured stories 7 Verge Score This is the keyboard that will convert you to the low-profile life The Lofree Flow is a low-profile keyboard that types and sounds like a full-height one.
| Comments Half-Life gets a big update for its 25th anniversary Valve added a bunch of new content, official Steam Deck support, and released a documentary about the game.
| Comments Transpo Transpo Cadillac’s new Optiq compact electric SUV will be its cheapest EV | Comments The Verge Big update to our scoop from earlier: a key 5PM PT deadline for the OpenAI board to strike a deal to resign and Sam Altman to return has passed, and mass resignations at OpenAI may come soon, unless this thing gets done.
OpenAI board in discussions with Sam Altman to return as CEO and The Verge Along with the news from Alex Heath and Nilay Patel that OpenAI’s board is in discussions with just-fired CEO Sam Altman about his return, now Bloomberg reports that Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella “has been in touch with Altman and pledged to support him in whatever steps he takes next.” The Wall Street Journal writes that Microsoft (the nonprofit’s primary financial backer) and Thrive Capital (its second-largest shareholder) are “ helping orchestrate the efforts” to restore Altman.
And according to this report by Forbes , the plan some investors are considering is to make the board consider the situation “untenable through a combination of mass revolt by senior researchers, withheld cloud computing credits from Microsoft, and a potential lawsuit from investors.” OpenAI board in discussions with Sam Altman to return as CEO and Advertisement Advertisement Advertiser Content Tech Tech Turmoil at OpenAI: after firing Sam Altman, what’s next for the home of ChatGPT? | Comments Breaking Breaking OpenAI board in discussions with Sam Altman to return as CEO and | Comments External Link The Information reported today that, fresh off being forced out of OpenAI , Sam Altman is spreading the word among investors that he has a new project in the works, possibly with the company’s former president, Greg Brockman.
Not long ago, rumors said Altman and Jony Ive would partner on an “iPhone of Artificial Intelligence” project, but later he said whatever ideas he has are “very nascent.” [The Information] Tech Tech Meta disbanded its Responsible AI team | Comments The 25th anniversary update of Half-Life hit Steam yesterday with some significant upgrades (and a limited-time free download!).
Unofficial player count tracker SteamDB showed more than 31,000 concurrent players at one point this morning. That peak is about twice as high as the highest one in the graph below. Guess I’m not the only one eager to take up Gordon Freeman’s crowbar again.
External Link Users have been reporting the outage on Google’s forums since around November 15th. A Google community manager replied , saying some 2nd gen Nest Protects are losing connection, and it’s working on a fix.
Some members have posted today that they’ve gotten the devices back online but that there are still issues.
 The Nest status page doesn’t reflect an outage as of this writing.
[www.googlenestcommunity.com] Deals Deals Filed under: The Verge’s guide to Black Friday 2023 The best early Black Friday tech deals you can shop right now | Comments External Link That’s according to a memo Axios saw that chief operating officer Brad Lightcap sent out. Lightcap ruled out some of the possible reasons why Altman was let go : “We can say definitively that the board’s decision was not made in response to malfeasance or anything related to our financial, business, safety, or security/privacy practices. This was a breakdown in communication between Sam and the board.” After OpenAI announced Altman’s firing, company president Greg Brockman quit , as did three senior researchers.
[Axios] Tech Tech Nothing Chats has already been pulled from Google Play over privacy issues | Comments Google Pixel Google Pixel Do Pixel 8 AI-edited photos have to be labeled as synthetic content on YouTube? YouTube is still figuring it out.
| Comments External Link Vice Motherboard reported yesterday that Cruise’s email summary of the accident said the car “hard-braked but was unable to stop” before hitting a pedestrian. But it didn’t mention that the car then pulled over, dragging the person with it.
California’s DMV revoked the company’s self-driving license.
 Cruise then halted robotaxi operation , later expanded the pause to include supervised and manually-driven Cruise trips for safety review.
[vice] Labor Labor SAG-AFTRA’s new contract hinges on studios acting responsibly with AI | Comments External Link The Information has the story.
 The outlet says Research director Jakub Pachocki, AI risk evaluation head Aleksander Madry, and longtime researcher Szymon Sidor resigned following Sam Altman’s surprise firing yesterday.
The article notes that Pachocki and Sidor had worked with Greg Brockman (who also left the company yesterday ) on OpenAI’s Dota 2-playing AI bot , while Madry joined the company in May 2023, later forming a team to mitigate AI risks.
[The Information] Space Space SpaceX’s second Starship flight test ends in an explosion minutes after launch and | Comments Youtube From the SpaceX livestream , the team there said about 15 minutes into the 8AM ET launch that Starship’s signal had disappeared, and it appears the craft’s flight termination system ended its journey soon after the planned engine shutdown.
The ship made it much farther along than the previous attempt earlier this year.
Twitter SpaceX’s rocket launched just after 8AM CT. The rocket is currently heading towards space. The booster exploded seconds after the stage separation, but Starship itself continued.
Former OpenAI president and chair Greg Brockman’s post on X tells his version of the events that pushed Sam Altman out of OpenAI (Altman reshared the post, and put up a message that today “has been sorta like reading your own eulogy while you’re still alive”).
According to Brockman, OpenAI Chief Scientist and board member Ilya Sutskever texted Altman on Thursday night asking to talk at noon on Friday (November 17th). At noon, on a Google Meet call with Sutskever, as well as non-employee board members Adam D’Angelo, Tasha McCauley, and Helen Toner, “Ilya told Sam he was being fired and that the news was going out very soon.” Within minutes, Sutskever invited Brockman to a Google Meet call where he was informed of his removal from the board “...and that Sam had been fired. Around the same time, OpenAI published a blog post.
” Command Line Command Line What happened to Sam Altman? | Comments Gaming Gaming Sony announces The Last of Us Part II remaster for PS5 | Comments Tech Tech OpenAI co-founder Greg Brockman is leaving, too | Comments Twitter - X Twitter - X Apple pulls its ads from X after Musk’s antisemitic posts | Comments External Link Meta VP of engineering Don Block has been leading the operating system development for its augmented reality glasses project, codenamed Nazare , planned for release in 2024. Now Reuters reports the former Microsoft engineer is stepping down, citing a Meta spokesperson saying it was for personal reasons and that the upcoming product roadmap will not be affected.
[Reuters] Microsoft says it’s using GPT-4 to garner the “most pertinent insights” from webpages and write summaries beneath Bing search results. You won’t see these summaries beneath every search result, but you can check which ones are AI-generated by clicking the little arrow next to the result’s URL. If the description is written by AI, it’ll say “AI-Generated Caption.” Twitter The former CEO was suddenly fired by OpenAI’s board on Friday, and in a post on X, he gave no details on what happened but said he’ll “have more to say about what’s next later.” Tech Tech It’s clearly time: all the news about the transparent tech renaissance | Comments Hot Pod Hot Pod Ben Shapiro and the conservative podcasters after his throne | Comments Tech Tech Sam Altman fired as CEO of OpenAI and | Comments External Link Denis Villeneuve’s Dune: Part Two was one of the handful of upcoming Warner Bros. releases whose premiere dates were delayed in response to the the now-concluded labor strikes.
But now that the industry’s ramping back up, Warner Bros. is getting a jump on things by moving the film’s premiere from March 15th to March 1st.
[Deadline] External Link The Summoner Names players use in League of Legends and Teamfight Tactics are being dropped in favor of Riot IDs on November 20th. Riot has a post detailing what’s going on and some changes for Riot IDs as a whole — including that you’ll be able to change your ID name every 90 days for free, which should address some criticisms from the original plan.
[Riot Games] Axios reports that Mustard is now a “partner” at the company, AGBO, but it’s unclear exactly what he’ll be doing in the role. Mustard announced he was retiring from Epic Games in September.
After bringing background removal to Paint , now Microsoft is rolling out the capability to Windows Photos. The feature is only available to Insiders for now, but it looks equally as handy as the one in Paint. You can remove a photo’s background with just a click and then even replace it with a solid color.
Reviews This is the keyboard that will convert you to the low-profile life Dan Seifert Nov 17 Fitbit Charge 6 review: practically a Pixel band Victoria Song Nov 16 Gaming brands are learning the right lessons from enthusiast mechanical keyboards Jon Porter Nov 14 The best smart holiday string lights Jennifer Pattison Tuohy Nov 14 Elon Musk Elon Musk The entire story of Twitter / X under Elon Musk | Comments Screens are good, actually Humane’s screenless mobile computer is nice and all, but actually, screens are pretty great.
| Comments Is it the end of the green bubble ? Who knows! Probably not. Did Nothing make this happen ? LOL, no. We dug into all things RCS and the future of messaging, before talking about Bing, the Windows app, wearable graphs, and whatever the Playstation Portal is. At the end of the day, we’re all just bubbles, you know what I mean? External Link In a memo sent to employees, Daniel Rausch, the vice president of the Alexa and Fire TV team, says Amazon is eliminating “several hundred roles” as the company looks to build up efforts in AI: As we continue to invent, we’re shifting some of our efforts to better align with our business priorities, and what we know matters most to customers — which includes maximizing our resources and efforts focused on generative AI. These shifts are leading us to discontinue some initiatives, which is resulting in several hundred roles being eliminated.
[GeekWire] Pagination More Stories OpenAI board in discussions with Sam Altman to return as CEO Sam Altman fired as CEO of OpenAI Windows is now an app for iPhones, iPads, Macs, and PCs Screens are good, actually What happened to Sam Altman? Installer / A weekly newsletter about the best and Verge-iest stuff you should know about.
Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell Or Share My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status How We Rate and Review Products Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement The Verge is a vox media network Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2023 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved
