The Verge homepage The Verge homepage The Verge The Verge logo.
/ Tech / Reviews / Science / Entertainment / More Menu Expand Jon Porter News Reporter Jon Porter is a news reporter, video presenter, and Capricorn. Part of The Verge's UK-based team, his primary focuses are European consumer tech releases, EU tech policy, online platforms, and video games. Oh, and mechanical keyboards. Lots of mechanical keyboards.
Porter started his career covering audio and TV equipment for TechRadar and has also written for Gizmodo UK, Kotaku UK, T3, Trusted Reviews, and Real Homes. He has been interviewed on national and international TV and radio, including on BBC World News, the BBC World Service, BBC Radio 4, ABC, CBC, and more. He currently lives in South London.
TWITTER Twitter The EU Court of Justice confirmed that Apple has joined Meta and ByteDance in appealing its designation under the tough new rules. The European Commission labeled three of Apple’s products as “core platform services” in September.
It’s not been officially confirmed which of these Apple is contesting, but last week, Bloomberg reported that its filings would concern the App Store and iMessage.
External Link After a Naughty Dog staffer seemed to let slip news of the remaster, Insider Gaming reports on new rumors that it’s on the way. The PS4 game is only three years old and has already received a 60fps PS5 patch , but who can blame Naughty Dog for wanting to have a new release on shelves in time for the TV show’s second season ? [Insider Gaming] iPhone iPhone Bellroy’s iPhone 15 Pro case has a proper Action Button now | Comments External Link Almost four years after the search giant stopped letting people buy digital magazines through Google News , the company is removing its magazine-reading feature entirely. After December 18th, you’ll no longer be able to access magazines purchased via the Google News apps or news.google.com, meaning you’ll have to export them if you ever want to read them again. Consider this your PSA.
[support.google.com] Twitter Samsung has disclosed a data breach affecting some customers of its UK e-store between July 2019 and June 2020 , according to emails sent to customers shared on X , and verified by TechCrunch.
 Although financial data or passwords weren’t impacted, contact information like names, phone numbers, email addresses, and postal addresses were. The UK’s data watchdog, the Information Commissioner’s Office, is “making enquiries.” Tech Tech Google is embedding inaudible watermarks right into its AI generated music | Comments YouTube YouTube YouTube previews AI tool that clones famous singers — with their permission | Comments Google Google Google’s new Photos features try to declutter your library | Comments Twitter A little over a week after announcing a bunch of new features at its debut developer conference , OpenAI is pausing signups for ChatGPT Plus.
 The subscription offers access to features like OpenAI’s new custom GPTs , which let anyone create their own versions of ChatGPT.
Gadgets Gadgets Gaming brands are learning the right lessons from enthusiast mechanical keyboards | Comments Pagination Page 1 of 348 Next Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell Or Share My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status How We Rate and Review Products Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement The Verge is a vox media network Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2023 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved
