Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons How Every Organ in Your Body Ages From Head to Toe About Released on 11/13/2023 Our organs were not built to go into our 70s or 80s.
By the time we're in our 40s to 50s, we run into problems.
Going from head to toe, I'd like to talk about how organs and body parts age, and what we can do about it.
Over the years, our cells, our organs, suffer from gradual wear and tear.
We age, but we're not defenseless.
Let's start with our brain.
As we age, our brain atrophies.
It's not problematic unless things pop up that become problematic.
Speech disorders, you've all heard of Alzheimer's.
Many of the causes of these are not particularly clear.
Our brain starts to lose about 5% of its volume per decade, probably somewhere in the 30s.
It decreases because of loss of number of cells, degeneration of the massive tracks and fibers.
Certain things can lead to brain atrophy.
One of them is vascular problems.
As we age, make sure we are on top of and checking our vascular systems.
Our ears.
You probably think you have two of them.
In actuality, we have six ears, three on one side, three on the other, outer, middle, and the inner ear.
We age in all of them.
In our outer ear, our cartilages and our tissues start to droop.
It didn't devolve for hanging Christmas tree ornaments.
By the time you're well into your years, you'll be able to wipe your chin with it.
The middle ear has tiny little bones.
Whenever you have bones, they come together at joints, and you know what joints can get, can you say arthritis? Presbycusis, or age-related hearing loss, can be due to arthritis between your little ear bones.
We get to our inner ear.
We have specialized hair cells, and they send signals to our vestibular cochlear nerve.
That's how we hear, that's how we sense balance.
As we age, hearing loss can be due to death of the hair cells, what we call sensorineural hearing loss.
We start to lose high frequency sounds probably around 30 plus.
We do retain most of all low frequency sounds.
[ship horn blasts] What'd you say? I can't hear you.
Eyes.
As we age, we start to get aspects of what's called presbyopia, which is aging of aspects of vision.
The eye is largely a fluid sack.
When fluid vehicles are blocked, this is called glaucoma.
The fluids can become stiffer, what we call a vitreous humor, can start to harden, shift, pull away, and you start to see floaters.
Oh, I'm seeing one now. There's another one.
They really bother me. Yeah, I'm seeing...
Look. There's, I got floaters.
They're usually harmless little things.
They don't cause any problems, but if you see them, you should check them out.
Maybe it's a tear in the retina.
The eye is a direct window onto the brain.
Nose.
These are little bones that come off the nose, they're called turbinates, lined with specialized sensory epithelium.
As we age, we're losing many of those cells in our olfactory nerve.
We lose the smallest cells in the covering of the mucosa.
We do produce less mucus. It's there to catch odorants.
Less mucus, less cells, altered smells.
As our smell decreases, think of what happens when you have a nose cold and both your nostrils are blocked.
A potato and an apple will taste the same.
What happens if you can't appreciate the flavor of food? We try to pull more stuff onto it. More salt.
Oh god, you don't want to put more salt on things.
that's throwing off all your vascular systems.
If you don't eat, you start losing weight.
That's a dangerous thing for many of the elderly.
You stop wanting to go out to dinners, you don't socialize as much.
Removing that can lead to loneliness and can lead to depression.
By the way, many medications can change your smell.
If you are noticing that the pizza doesn't taste like the pizza, don't be passive.
Skin.
Skin is our biggest organ.
We have proteins in the skin that are called collagen and elastin, giving structure to aspects in our skin.
Elastin gives us the ability to move.
What happens when we age? These proteins start to decrease.
Skin all over the body starts to sag, underneath your arms, breast issues, your scrotum starts to sag.
What is that? What's happening? Skin starts to sag on features of our face.
We get a downturn. We get the sad face.
This is giving signals to our other primates that say, Whoa, distance, unhappy, angry, sad, bad.
They are negative clues.
If I knew stuff when I was 25, I wouldn't have sat there and baked in the sun for hours.
Now we know moisturize use blockers.
Hair.
Starting in the late 30s, we lose our follicles and hair starts to become thinner.
This bone, the side of my head is called a temporal bone.
Temporal means time.
When you look on the side of your head, that's where you can first see hair color starts to change.
The gray comes because we lose melanin.
That's a major signal to some 20 year old that I'm old.
You can knock me over and you can take my piece of dinner to eat.
Male pattern baldness.
As our androgen starts to go down, we're losing the top, we're gaining it elsewhere.
On our ears and our beard and our nose hairs, some of us start looking like Chia Pets.
It's called the Androgen Paradox.
It's a multi-billion dollar business to figure out how to save the follicle.
It's not the easiest thing to do.
This is really a natural part of life.
You don't have to have the same hair you had when you were 18.
But be careful about lots of potentially dangerous chemicals.
Teeth.
So it's in our oral cavity, our tongue, and also lots of glands.
These glands are producing things that kill bad bacteria.
As we age, submandibular, sublingual glands, parotid glands start to decrease their secretions.
When bacteria is allowed to spread, it starts to affect the gums.
They start to recede. We lose the enamel of teeth.
What happens when teeth are removed? The bone disappears.
If you have problems with your upper dentition, you can get a sinus infection.
Don't disregard your teeth.
Next, the larynx.
The joints of the larynx can age.
The muscles become thinner.
The vocal folds start to shrink, and the mucus coverings start to desiccate.
We can have arthritis in some of them.
Vocal folds when they're closed together, they create an ability to stabilize our diaphragm.
When you're constipated, what you do is close your vocal folds.
They enable you to use the muscles of your abdominal wall to help nature do its duty.
If these age and the muscles weaken, we get problems lifting heavy objects, and we start to have problems with formation and voice.
This is known as presbyphonia.
You can hear somebody and you can gauge whether they're elderly just by the sounds coming from their voice.
Heart.
As we get into our 50s and our 60s, the heart muscles, what we call our myocardium, start to lose oxygen.
It's usually because of problems with the arteries.
We get a hardening of the arteries. They become narrowed.
As they narrow, we have less oxygen going to the heart.
We have a feature in our body that's called collateral blood flow, where a structure or an organ gets blood from various sources.
This is to make sure that the structure is getting sufficiently nourished.
Our heart does not have a lot of collateral flow.
If we have the death of tissue of the heart, the overlap of blood supply to the heart is usually not sufficient to help that heart muscle.
Why not? How come evolution glitched? Our species, homo sapiens came about quarter of million years ago.
Life expectancy for our earliest ancestors, even of our species, 40 plus years would've been maxing out.
Our heart seems to run into problems in the 50s and 60s.
As anybody who's built a house can tell you, you don't put in extra plumbing if you don't need it.
Uterus.
a female has to carry with her uterus, ovaries, connecting uterine tubes.
When females age past childbearing years, hormones are going to change.
Estrogen is going to shift.
The cells are continuing to grow in abnormal ways.
The ovaries become dangerous.
It can't assess ovarian cancers that easily.
Prostate.
The prostate is extremely important early on in giving help and fluid to sperm.
As you get older now, it blossoms, and as it grows, the urethra that goes through it becomes blocked.
This starts to happen well into the 30s, into the 40s.
Those of us that are older, we know what it is to get up three, four times a night to pee.
That's because this prostate is not allowing urine to have a healthy flow.
This is normal aging.
Prostate exams, I can tell you, are not the most fun to do.
Doc is trying to feel hardness, which is an indication of cancer.
Joints.
These are beautiful structures.
Here's a patella. Here's a femur.
Here's a tibia. Here's a fibula.
Along these areas are magnificent structures called articular cartilage.
When we lose it, we can't replace it.
Joint deterioration can begin in your 30 and 40.
If you have abused your joints, stuff will start earlier.
Running is a very, very important part of our evolution.
To get away from some lion that wanted us for Sunday brunch on the savannas of East Africa.
This didn't evolve for playing football.
It didn't evolve for pounding on concrete.
When we've lost our little discs inside that are called menisci, we develop all sorts of inflammation of joints.
That's called arthritis.
Wanna run, find a nice patch of grass.
Try swimming. Get off the concrete.
Don't send me hate letters.
Foot.
Arguably the most important, least appreciated part of the human body.
When you age, we start to have the issues with vasculature.
The foot and hands are the most distal parts of our body.
Proper circulation is essential.
When I go visit my physician, he revealed my feet to see if they were warm, to see if there was good circulation.
Blood flow is a key to so much.
When we start to get reduced blood flow, we start to get losses of sensation in the skin.
If that occurs, you can fall.
You often hear about people breaking their hip because they lose sensation often on the bottom of the foot.
By the way, for some of you that have worn high heeled shoes for years, are you crazy? Because the end product is gonna be pinched toes, decreased blood supply, damaged nerves.
Remember your feet.
These are key puppies if we are to remain healthy and alive.
Things change. We have to deal with that.
I still have problems realizing the Dodgers left Brooklyn.
They're not coming back.
I'm old. I'm expensive.
But why do the species keep us around? It's called wisdom.
And I'll trade in my knee for the hug of one of my granddaughters any day.
[playful music] How the Disco Clam Uses Light to Fight Super-Strong Predators Architect Explains How Homes Could be 3D Printed on Mars and Earth Scientist Explains How Rare Genetics Allow Some to Sleep Only 4 Hours a Night Scientist Explains Unsinkable Metal That Could Prevent Disasters at Sea Is Invisibility Possible? An Inventor and a Physicist Explain Scientist Explains Why Her Lab Taught Rats to Drive Tiny Cars Mycologist Explains How a Slime Mold Can Solve Mazes How the Two-Hour Marathon Limit Was Broken Research Suggests Cats Like Their Owners as Much as Dogs Researcher Explains Deepfake Videos Scientist Explains How to Study the Metabolism of Ultra High Flying Geese Hurricane Hunter Explains How They Track and Predict Hurricanes Scientist Explains Viral Fish Cannon Video A Biohacker Explains Why He Turned His Leg Into a Hotspot Scientist Explains What Water Pooling in Kilauea's Volcanic Crater Means Bill Nye Explains the Science Behind Solar Sailing Vision Scientist Explains Why These Praying Mantises Are Wearing 3D Glasses Why Some Cities Are Banning Facial Recognition Technology Scientist's Map Explains Climate Change Scientist Explains How Moon Mining Would Work Scientist Explains How She Captured Rare Footage of a Giant Squid Doctor Explains How Sunscreen Affects Your Body Stranger Things is Getting a New Mall! But Today Malls Are Dying. What Happened? The Limits of Human Endurance Might Be Our Guts Meet the First College Students to Launch a Rocket Into Space Scientist Explains Why Dogs Can Smell Better Than Robots A Harvard Professor Explains What the Avengers Can Teach Us About Philosophy NASA Twin Study: How Space Changes Our Bodies What the Black Hole Picture Means for Researchers Scientist Explains How to Levitate Objects With Sound Why Scientists and Artists Want The Blackest Substances on Earth Biologist Explains How Drones Catching Whale "Snot" Helps Research Researcher Explains Why Humans Can't Spot Real-Life Deepfake Masks Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About The Coronavirus VFX Artist Breaks Down This Year's Best Visual Effects Nominees How Doctors on Earth Treated a Blood Clot in Space Scientist Explains Why Some Cats Eat Human Corpses Voting Expert Explains How Voting Technology Will Impact the 2020 Election Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About Pandemics ER Doctor Explains How They're Handling Covid-19 Why This Taste Map Is Wrong Q&A: What's Next for the Coronavirus Pandemic? Why Captive Tigers Can’t Be Reintroduced to the Wild How Covid-19 Immunity Compares to Other Diseases 5 Mistakes to Avoid as We Try to Stop Covid-19 How This Emergency Ventilator Could Keep Covid-19 Patients Alive Why NASA Made a Helicopter for Mars Theoretical Physicist Breaks Down the Marvel Multiverse Former NASA Astronaut Explains Jeff Bezos's Space Flight Physics Student Breaks Down Gymnastics Physics What Do Cities Look Like Under a Microscope? Inside the Largest Bitcoin Mine in The U.S.
How Caffeine Has Fueled History How Mushroom Time-Lapses Are Filmed Why You’ll Fail the Milk Crate Challenge Why Vegan Cheese Doesn't Melt How 250 Cameras Filmed Neill Blomkamp's Demonic How Meme Detectives Stop NFT Fraud How Disney Designed a Robotic Spider-Man How Online Conspiracy Groups Compare to Cults Dune Costume Designers Break Down Dune’s Stillsuits Korean Phrases You Missed in 'Squid Game' Why Scientists Are Stress Testing Tardigrades Every Prototype that Led to a Realistic Prosthetic Arm Why the Toilet Needs an Upgrade How Animals Are Evolving Because of Climate Change How Stop-Motion Movies Are Animated at Aardman Astronomer Explains How NASA Detects Asteroids Are We Living In A Simulation? Inside the Journey of a Shipping Container (And Why the Supply Chain Is So Backed Up) The Science of Slow Aging How Nose Swabs Detect New Covid-19 Strains Samsung S22 Ultra Explained in 3 Minutes The Science Behind Elon Musk’s Neuralink Brain Chip Every Prototype to Make a Humanoid Robot Chemist Breaks Down How At-Home Covid Tests Work A Timeline of Russian Cyberattacks on Ukraine VFX Artist Breaks Down Oscar-Nominated CGI Why Smartphone Night Photos Are So Good Now We Invented the Perfect WIRED Autocomplete Glue How Everything Everywhere All at Once's Visual Effects Were Made How Dogs Coevolved with Humans How an Architect Redesigns NYC Streets Viking Expert Breaks Down The Northman Weapons J. Kenji López-Alt Breaks Down the Science of Stir-Fry How A.I. Is Changing Hollywood How Trash Goes From Garbage Cans to Landfills Veterinarian Explains How to Prevent Pet Separation Anxiety The Science Behind Genetically Modified Mosquitoes How Scientists & Filmmakers Brought Prehistoric Planet's Dinosaurs to Life All the Ways Google Gets Street View Images How Public Cameras Recognize and Track You How the Nuro Robotic Delivery Car Was Built Biologist Explains the Unexpected Origins of Feathers in Fashion Surgeons Break Down Separating Conjoined Twins Former Air Force Pilot Breaks Down UFO Footage Bug Expert Explains Why Cicadas Are So Loud The Best of CES 2021 Health Expert Explains What You Need to Know About Quarantines Scientist Explains How People Might Hibernate Like Bears Could a Chernobyl Level Nuclear Disaster Happen in the US? Neuroscientist Explains ASMR's Effects on the Brain & The Body Why Top Scientists Are Pretending an Asteroid is Headed for Earth Epidemiologist Answers Common Monkeypox Questions Bill Nye Breaks Down Webb Telescope Space Images How This Humanoid Robot Diver Was Designed Every Trick a Pro GeoGuessr Player Uses to Win How NASA Biologists Plan to Grow Plants on the Moon How FIFA Graphics & Gameplay Are Evolving (1993 - 2023) How a Vet Performs Dangerous Surgeries on Wild Animals This Heart is Not Human How Entomologists Use Insects to Solve Crimes Former NASA Astronaut Breaks Down a Rocket Launch Chess Pro Explains How to Spot Cheaters Why Billionaires Are Actually Ruining the Economy How to Keep Your New Year’s Resolutions for More Than a Week The Biology Behind The Last of Us English Teacher Grades Homework By ChatGPT All the Ways a Cold Plunge Affects the Body Spy Historian Debunks Chinese Spy Balloon Theories A.I. Tries 20 Jobs | WIRED Mathematician Breaks Down the Best Ways to Win the Lottery Why Music Festivals Sound Better Than Ever Pro Interpreters vs. AI Challenge: Who Translates Faster and Better? Why The Average Human Couldn't Drive An F1 Car Atomic Expert Explains "Oppenheimer" Bomb Scenes Every 'Useless' Body Part Explained From Head to Toe How Pilots and Scientists Are Thinking About the Future of Air Travel How To Max Out At Every Fantasy Football Position (Ft. Matthew Berry) All The Ways Mt. Everest Can Kill You How Fat Bears Bulk Up To Hibernate (And Why We Love To See It) Why Vintage Tech Is So Valuable To Collectors 8 Photos That Tell The History of Humans In Space How Every Organ in Your Body Ages From Head to Toe Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
