Cohere Website For Business Docs Research Cohere Team Harness the Power of Sentiment Analysis with Cohere's AI Platform For Business Share: Transform Your Business by Leveraging Natural Language Processing to Understand Customer Sentiments TL;DR: Cohere’s AI-driven sentiment analysis platform allows businesses to gain valuable insights from customer feedback, improve their products, and make informed decisions. Using natural language processing (NLP), Cohere processes large volumes of data in real-time, enabling product, marketing, and capital market businesses to unlock previously untapped data sources and drive growth.
Sentiment Analysis: A Game-Changer for Businesses Understanding how people feel about products, companies, and brands is critical to success. But it’s hard to distill useful insights from the many ways that people express themselves. Language AI, a subset of Natural Language Processing (NLP), can help analyze them all. Cohere's enterprise-grade NLP platform empowers businesses to analyze public sentiment across the internet in real-time, giving stakeholders the ability to respond more quickly and effectively.
Understand your customers better with sentiment analysis Understanding how people feel about products, companies, and brands is critical to success. But it’s hard to distill useful insights from the many ways that people express themselves. Language AI, a subset of Natural language processing (NLP), can help analyze them all.
Large language models, like those that power Cohere, can be used to build sentiment analysis tools to quickly give you insights into consumer attitudes, so you can devise new product strategies, respond quickly to brand risks, and drive growth.
Get started with Cohere Contact our sales team for more information A black hole of reviews Today, businesses gain insight from structured data from surveys, NPS, or customer ratings, but that’s only part of the picture. To better understand user sentiment, they need to tap into the wealth of publicly available, free-form commentary from customers, influencers, analysts, news media, and others. This becomes even more important during a product launch or high-profile incident.
But analyzing thousands of qualitative, anecdotal comments isn’t always feasible for marketing or communications teams. It’s labor intensive and time consuming, leaving less time for other tasks. However, by excluding this data, brands often miss meaningful customer feedback and insights.
How Cohere can help Cohere: Giving all your customers a voice Cohere’s enterprise-grade NLP platform can help any business analyze public sentiment across the internet in real time. Whether people share thoughts on social media, product reviews, blogs, articles, or other sources, Cohere can read and understand their meaning and sentiment, and then classify and organize the data. As a result, business stakeholders can respond more quickly and effectively.
Get started with Cohere Contact our sales team for more information Developers Cohere gives every developer easy access to NLP We’ve made an API that works with every stack. No matter your level of developer experience, the Cohere Platform makes it easy to integrate machine learning into your applications and systems with our Python, Node, and Go SDKs. Our versatile NLP platform offers endpoints for generation, classification, or embedding text data at massive scale. Developers can then use Cohere's endpoints to handle specific tasks, such as text analysis, text classification, and topic labeling.
Installation guide Start now Use Cohere’s Classify for sentiment analysis at scale Starting from the same Transformer architecture as Google’s Search and Translate, Cohere’s Classify endpoint can quickly read, understand, and identify the sentiment behind millions of pieces of unstructured text, classifying it as positive, negative, or neutral. Behind the scenes, Cohere’s large language models are continuously learning emerging language patterns and trends that convey sentiment. Developers can further finetune Cohere’s large language models with their own dataset per their business or industry.
Try it Now Read the Docs Here’s how it works Set the road rules Define the different sentiment categories that you’re looking to label (think positive, negative, and neutral). Secondly, identify your data sources and train Classify with examples for each category.
Read our Classify Guide Start the engine Classify then sorts inbound text snippets from your data sources into sentiment categories — all in real time.
Learn how Get driving With quantified sentiment data at hand, you can then use it to derive valuable insights that can better inform decision-making.
Leverage more data for deeper analysis When it comes to data, more is better. Gathering data across the broad landscape of public feedback, opinions, attitudes, and desires helps you better understand your market. With Cohere’s Classify, you can build robust, AI-powered sentiment analysis tools that empower those teams who need to make data-driven decisions.
Get started with Cohere Contact our sales team for more information NLP enables faster, higher-quality analysis Drive insights from gargantuan amounts of data Cohere can process large volumes of text without the need for spreadsheets or manual sorting. By automating sentiment analysis, you can unlock previously untapped data sources.
Make decisions with real-time data Identify sentiment trends as they happen. Cohere can automatically process user-generated content as it becomes available and flag if there’s any sudden change in customer sentiment.
How NLP-powered sentiment analysis can benefit you Product-led companies Using Cohere’s Classify, your product teams can analyze customer comments in marketplaces, social media, product review sites, and others to uncover how customers feel about the usability or functionality of your products. They can further train Classify to identify the feature requests or improvements that elicited the highest emotional score from your customers, and use them to prioritize your product roadmap.
Marketing & communications teams Sentiment analysis powered by Cohere can help your brand marketers determine whether their brand strategies are resonating with customers or falling short. Influencer marketers can identify product evangelists across owned product sites, marketplaces, and more. And communications teams can glean insights from public attitudes that can help them protect the reputation of your brand and company.
Capital market businesses Quant funds, hedge funds, fintech platforms, and other financial service providers can use Cohere’s Classify to analyze a range of unstructured financial data sources, such as transcripts from earnings calls and Q&A or analyst reports. By understanding the public sentiment around particular companies or markets, firms can make better informed investment decisions.
Get started with Sentiment Analysis Cohere's AI-powered sentiment analysis platform enables businesses to drive insights from massive amounts of data, make decisions with real-time data, and leverage the benefits of NLP for various use cases. From product-led companies to marketing and communications teams, and capital market businesses, Cohere's Classify empowers businesses to make data-driven decisions that result in growth and success.
Ready to take advantage of Cohere's powerful sentiment analysis platform? Get started or contact sales to learn more about how Cohere can help your business stay ahead of the competition.
Try the Cohere Playground Lights, Camera, Action: Building a Multilingual Movie Recommender! Exploring the Deep World of NLP AI is Eating the World Keep reading Cohere — Nov 16, 2023 Cohere’s Enterprise AI Models Coming Soon to Microsoft Azure AI as a Managed Service Newsroom Seraphina Goldfarb-Tarrant , Maximilian Mozes — Nov 14, 2023 The Enterprise Guide to AI Safety For Business Cohere Team — Nov 03, 2023 Emerging Trends in Generative AI Research: A Selection of Recent Papers Research Cohere.com Get Started About Classify Generate Responsibility Documentation Careers
