Cohere Website For Business Docs Research Sandra Kublik Cohere Partners with lablab.ai to Host Three Online Hackathons Developers Past Events Share: Hackathons are where the magic of making cool stuff happens. Many startups are born at a hackathon, and it’s also how many friendships and lasting memories are made. Getting together and staying up all night to build something that earns you bragging rights is actually kinda awesome! The Cohere community is home to experienced hackers, and I'm super stoked to share that we've partnered with lablab.ai , a hackathon community that aims to support developers in building their skills within the artificial intelligence ecosystem.
lablab.ai is an organization that hosts online and onsite hackathons leveraging state-on-the-art AI frameworks. Not only do they host awesome events, but they're also constantly innovating, so that their hackathons can have a broader impact.
We are excited to begin collaborating with lablab.ai to further explore the capabilities of the Cohere API. Through this partnership, we will be sponsoring three online hackathons.
The first one will be hosted soon: Cohere AI Hackathon (episode one) When: August 19 – 21, 2022 Where: lablab.ai platform and Deep Learning Labs Discord Server Learn more about the hackathon and enroll today! And stay tuned — dates for the other two hackathons will be announced soon.
A note to hackathon organizers If you’re organizing hackathons and are interested in partnering with Cohere, let’s talk! Let us know by filling in this form: If, by any chance, you are not yet a part of the Cohere Discord server community, join the conversation ! Keep reading Cohere — Nov 16, 2023 Cohere’s Enterprise AI Models Coming Soon to Microsoft Azure AI as a Managed Service Newsroom Seraphina Goldfarb-Tarrant , Maximilian Mozes — Nov 14, 2023 The Enterprise Guide to AI Safety For Business Cohere Team — Nov 03, 2023 Emerging Trends in Generative AI Research: A Selection of Recent Papers Research Cohere.com Get Started About Classify Generate Responsibility Documentation Careers
