Close Search Skip to main content Site Navigation Research Overview Index GPT-4 DALL·E 3 API Overview Data privacy Pricing Docs ChatGPT Overview Enterprise Try ChatGPT Safety Company About Blog Careers Residency Charter Security Customer stories Search Navigation quick links Log in Try ChatGPT Menu Mobile Navigation Close Site Navigation Research Overview Index GPT-4 DALL·E 3 API Overview Data privacy Pricing Docs ChatGPT Overview Enterprise Try ChatGPT Safety Company About Blog Careers Residency Charter Security Customer stories Quick Links Log in Try ChatGPT Search Research GPT-4 is OpenAI’s most advanced system, producing safer and more useful responses Quick links Try on ChatGPT Plus View GPT-4 research Play video GPT-4 can solve difficult problems with greater accuracy, thanks to its broader general knowledge and problem solving abilities.
Tabs Creativity Visual input Longer context GPT-4 is more creative and collaborative than ever before. It can generate, edit, and iterate with users on creative and technical writing tasks, such as composing songs, writing screenplays, or learning a user’s writing style.
Input Output A beautiful Cinderella, dwelling eagerly, finally gains happiness; inspiring jealous kin, love magically nurtures opulent prince; quietly rescues, slipper triumphs, uniting very wondrously, xenial youth zealously.
GPT-4 can accept images as inputs and generate captions, classifications, and analyses.
Input Output There are many options for what you can make with these ingredients! Some possibilities include: - Pancakes or waffles - Crepes - French toast - Omelette or frittata - Quiche - Custard or pudding - Cake or cupcakes - Muffins or bread- Cookies or biscuits These are just a few examples, but the possibilities are endless! GPT-4 is capable of handling over 25,000 words of text, allowing for use cases like long form content creation, extended conversations, and document search and analysis.
Input Output Rihanna's Super Bowl LVII halftime show performance was special for a number of reasons. For one, it marked her first live performance in over five years, and it was her first time headlining the Super Bowl halftime show. Additionally, she made history by becoming the first person to perform at the Super Bowl while pregnant. The show itself was critically acclaimed, with many praising her high-energy performance and impressive vocals. It also garnered a massive viewership, becoming the second most-watched halftime show in history.
GPT-4 surpasses ChatGPT in its advanced reasoning capabilities.
Input Output Here is a list of their availability: - Andrew: 11 am to 3 pm - Joanne: noon to 2 pm, and 3:30 pm to 5 pm - Hannah: noon to 12:30 pm, and 4 pm to 6 pm Based on their availability, there is a 30-minute window where all three of them are available, which is from 4 pm to 4:30 pm. So, the meeting can be scheduled at 4 pm.
Input Output Andrew: 11 am - 3 pm Joanne: 12 pm - 2 pm, 3:30 pm - 5 pm Hannah: 12 pm - 12:30 pm, 4 pm - 6 pm Common availability for a 30-minute meeting: 12 pm - 12:30 pm GPT-4 outperforms ChatGPT by scoring in higher approximate percentiles among test-takers.
Uniform Bar Exam 10th ChatGPT 90th GPT-4 Biology Olympiad 31st ChatGPT 99th GPT-4 (with vision) Following the research path from GPT, GPT-2, and GPT-3, our deep learning approach leverages more data and more computation to create increasingly sophisticated and capable language models.
We spent 6 months making GPT-4 safer and more aligned. GPT-4 is 82% less likely to respond to requests for disallowed content and 40% more likely to produce factual responses than GPT-3.5 on our internal evaluations.
Safety & alignment Training with human feedback We incorporated more human feedback, including feedback submitted by ChatGPT users, to improve GPT-4’s behavior. We also worked with over 50 experts for early feedback in domains including AI safety and security.
Continuous improvement from real-world use We’ve applied lessons from real-world use of our previous models into GPT-4’s safety research and monitoring system. Like ChatGPT, we’ll be updating and improving GPT-4 at a regular cadence as more people use it.
GPT-4-assisted safety research GPT-4’s advanced reasoning and instruction-following capabilities expedited our safety work. We used GPT-4 to help create training data for model fine-tuning and iterate on classifiers across training, evaluations, and monitoring.
Built with GPT-4 We’ve collaborated with organizations building innovative products with GPT-4.
Duolingo GPT-4 deepens the conversation on Duolingo.
Be My Eyes Be My Eyes uses GPT-4 to transform visual accessibility.
Stripe Stripe leverages GPT-4 to streamline user experience and combat fraud.
Morgan Stanley Morgan Stanley wealth management deploys GPT-4 to organize its vast knowledge base.
Khan Academy Khan Academy explores the potential for GPT-4 in a limited pilot program.
Government of Iceland How Iceland is using GPT-4 to preserve its language.
More on GPT-4 Research View GPT-4 research Infrastructure Limitations Availability We’re excited to see how people use GPT-4 as we work towards developing technologies that empower everyone.
View contributions Try on ChatGPT Plus View GPT-4 research Research Overview Index GPT-4 DALL·E 3 API Overview Data privacy Pricing Docs ChatGPT Overview Enterprise Try ChatGPT Company About Blog Careers Charter Security Customer stories Safety OpenAI © 2015 – 2023 Terms & policies Privacy policy Brand guidelines Social Twitter YouTube GitHub SoundCloud LinkedIn Back to top
