DeepMind Search Search Close DeepMind About Overview Responsibility & Safety Education Careers Press Technologies Impact Discover Overview Blog The Podcast Visualising AI Search Search Close Discover Visualising AI What does AI look like? We’re working with artists and animators to break existing stereotypes — and create a more inclusive image of AI.
Share Copy link × Expanding our vision of what AI looks like Streams of code. Glowing blue brains. White robots, and men in suits.
If you search online for AI, those are the kind of misleading representations you’ll find — in news stories, advertising, and personal blogs.
These stereotypes can negatively impact public perceptions of AI technologies by perpetuating long-held biases. They also often exclude global perspectives, and this lack of diversity can further amplify social inequalities.
Through our Visualising AI program, we commission artists from around the world to create more diverse and accessible representations of AI. These images are inspired by conversations with our scientists, engineers, and ethicists.
Diversifying the way we visualise emerging technologies is the first step to expanding the wider public’s vision of what AI can look like today – and tomorrow.
Download on Unsplash Download on Pexels Image models by Linus Zoll Large image models, or large visual models, can recognise and categorise images by learning from datasets of photos and images. These models can also be used to create generative models that can create images from text, for example.
Creative collaboration by XK Studio Creative collaboration through tools like generative AI is opening up new opportunities for human-AI collaboration. Many tools offer new points of view, speed up processes and lead to new territories across mediums from text and audio to graphic design.
Changing what AI looks like to the world Since launching Visualising AI, we have commissioned 13 artists to create more than 100 artworks, gaining over 125 million views, and 1 million downloads. Our imagery has been used by media outlets, research and civil society organizations.
All artworks are free to download and use.
Explore new ways of visualising AI: Download on Unsplash Download on Pexels Download press pack The artists’ interpretation of AI The artists we work with have complete creative freedom to explore unconventional, even challenging interpretations of AI.
Our artists Ariel Lu Champ Panupong Techawongthawon Domhnall Malone Khyati Trehan Linus Zoll Martina Stiftinger Nidia Dias Novoto Studio Rose Pilkington Tim West Vincent Schwenk Wes Cockx XK Studio Large language models by Wes Cockx Language models can recognise and understand text by learning from massive datasets. Large language models develop more advanced capabilities with more data and generate text.
Digital assistants by Martina Stiftinger Digital assistants, or assistive technologies, describe tools that can enhance how people work. For example, some can be generative AI tools to help brainstorm ideas or organise information to improve productivity.
Visualising emerging technologies The artworks below illustrate key themes in AI connected to new research, technologies or real-world impact.
Each piece offers a new route into understanding a complex subject – from artificial general intelligence (AGI) and robotics to sustainability and generative AI.
AI and Society by Novoto Studio AI and society are transforming together. Research is exploring the impact of AI on individuals and society and how they can harness the benefits through AI tools and mitigate risks through equitable development.
AGI by Domhnall Malone Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) describes AI that would be more generally capable in human-like ways. Many AI systems are good at specific tasks, but more general AI could be a transformative tool.
Biodiversity by Nidia Dias Biodiversity describes the breadth of life on Earth. Using AI, researchers can better understand, track and ultimately, find ways to protect plants and animals to ecosystems.
Chip Design by Champ Panupong Techawongthawon Chip design is at the core of our phones, computers and digital lives. Producing new computer chips can take years of work, but AI-based approaches can speed up the design of more powerful and efficient circuits.
Data Labelling by Ariel Lu Data labelling makes data usable to train AI, but the human labour behind it is often undervalued. Ethics research sheds light on the human involvement in AI and the importance of ethical data labour.
Digital Biology by Khyati Trehan Digital biology, or computational biology, is the use of data and AI to study life. This ranges from simulating biological systems to harnessing AI to uncover patterns in the natural world.
Neuroscience by Rose Pilkington Neuroscience and AI have created a virtuous cycle in research. Early work on neural networks were inspired by psychology and neuroscience, and similarly approaches in AI can help teach us about ways in which humans may think.
Robotics by Wes Cockx Robotics and more broadly embodied AI, describe AI that can take a physical form in the real or simulated world. By combining AI systems with an understanding of physical dynamics and different types of agents, these technologies can be used more easily in the real world.
Video Compression by Vincent Schwenk Video compression allows billions of people to watch videos around the world. Using AI to compress videos more efficiently, makes streaming faster and saves data and energy on a global scale.
Envisioning the future of AI AI takes many different forms. We need a more diverse and accessible picture of how AI can impact society.
We’re excited to explore these possibilities through Visualising AI. Together with our artistic partners, we’re hoping to engage more people in shaping what AI looks like in the world.
AI will be transformative for society and opens up a huge range of possible futures. Google DeepMind is proud to have partnered with artists from around the world to explore these futures.
Dex Hunter-Torricke Head of Communications and Marketing, Google DeepMind Footer links Follow us Email (e.g., name@example.com) I accept Google's Terms and Conditions and acknowledge that my information will be used in accordance with Google's Privacy Policy.
About Google Google products Privacy Terms Cookies management controls
