Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts A clever shield against photo fakery AI makes it easy to tamper with images online, but an MIT-built system subtly alters them to foil the manipulation.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page In this example, someone seeks to modify an image found online, writing a text prompt to change the casual clothing to suits and then using a diffusion model to generate a realistic matching image. By “immunizing” the original with alterations invisible to the human eye, the PhotoGuard system makes the result of this manipulation look like an unnatural blur of gray.
Courtesy of the Researchers Remember that selfie you posted last week? There’s currently nothing stopping someone from taking it and editing it with AI—and it might be impossible to prove that the resulting image is fake.
The good news is that a new tool created by researchers at MIT could prevent this.
The tool, called PhotoGuard , works like a protective shield by altering photos in tiny ways that are invisible to the human eye but prevent them from being manipulated. If someone tries to use an editing app based on a generative AI model such as Stable Diffusion to manipulate an image that has been “immunized” by PhotoGuard, the result will look unrealistic or warped.
Right now, “anyone can take our image, modify it however they want, put us in very bad-looking situations, and blackmail us,” says Hadi Salman, a PhD student at MIT who contributed to the research. PhotoGuard is “an attempt to solve the problem of our images being manipulated maliciously by these models,” says Salman. The tool could, for example, help prevent women’s selfies from being made into nonconsensual deepfake pornography.
The MIT team used two different techniques to stop images from being edited using Stable Diffusion. In the first, PhotoGuard adds imperceptible signals to the image so that the AI model interprets it as something else, such as a block of pure gray. In the second, it disrupts the way the AI models generate images, essentially by encoding them with secret signals that alter how they’re processed by the model, so any edited image looks like that gray block. For now, the technique works reliably only on Stable Diffusion, an open-source image generation model.
In theory, people could apply this protective shield to their images before they upload them online, says Aleksander Madry, SM ’09, PhD ’11, a professor of electrical engineering and computer science who contributed to the research. But a more effective approach, he adds, would be for tech companies to add it to images that people upload into their platforms automatically—though it’s an arms race, because new AI models that might be able to override any new protections are always coming out.
hide by Melissa Heikkilä Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window This story was part of our November/December 2023 issue.
Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos New approaches to the tech talent shortage MIT Technology Review Insights Keep Reading Most Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI The tool, called Nightshade, messes up training data in ways that could cause serious damage to image-generating AI models.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Artificial wombs are nearing human trials. But the goal is to save the littlest preemies, not replace the uterus.
By Cassandra Willyard archive page How to fix the internet If we want online discourse to improve, we need to move beyond the big platforms.
By Katie Notopoulos archive page New approaches to the tech talent shortage Early-career programs enable tech companies to invest in the future workforce via upskilling and education.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
