old id = 930
Implementing an online help desk system based on conversational agent | Proceedings of the International Conference on Management of Emergent Digital EcoSystems
2009
https://doi.org/10.1145%2F1643823.1643908

Dartmouth College Advanced Search Browse About Sign in Register Advanced Search Journals Magazines Proceedings Books SIGs Conferences People More Search Search 10.1145/1643823.1643908 acmotherconferences Article/Chapter View Abstract Publication Pages medes Conference Proceedings conference-collections Conference Proceedings Upcoming Events Authors Affiliations Award Winners More Home Conferences MEDES Proceedings MEDES '09 Implementing an online help desk system based on conversational agent research-article Share on Implementing an online help desk system based on conversational agent Authors: Alisa Kongthon National Electronics and Computer Technology Center (NECTEC), Klong Luang, Pathumthani, Thailand National Electronics and Computer Technology Center (NECTEC), Klong Luang, Pathumthani, Thailand View Profile , Chatchawal Sangkeettrakarn National Electronics and Computer Technology Center (NECTEC), Klong Luang, Pathumthani, Thailand National Electronics and Computer Technology Center (NECTEC), Klong Luang, Pathumthani, Thailand View Profile , Sarawoot Kongyoung National Electronics and Computer Technology Center (NECTEC), Klong Luang, Pathumthani, Thailand National Electronics and Computer Technology Center (NECTEC), Klong Luang, Pathumthani, Thailand View Profile , Choochart Haruechaiyasak National Electronics and Computer Technology Center (NECTEC), Klong Luang, Pathumthani, Thailand National Electronics and Computer Technology Center (NECTEC), Klong Luang, Pathumthani, Thailand View Profile MEDES '09: Proceedings of the International Conference on Management of Emergent Digital EcoSystems October 2009 Article No.: 69 Pages 450–451 https://doi.org/10.1145/1643823.1643908 Published: 27 October 2009 13 citation 395 Downloads 13 395 38 8 Get Citation Alerts New Citation Alert added! This alert has been successfully added and will be sent to: You will be notified whenever a record that you have chosen has been cited.
To manage your alert preferences, click on the button below.
Manage my Alerts New Citation Alert! Please log in to your account Save to Binder Save to Binder Create a New Binder Name Cancel Create Export Citation Publisher Site eReader PDF MEDES '09: Proceedings of the International Conference on Management of Emergent Digital EcoSystems Implementing an online help desk system based on conversational agent Previous Chapter Next Chapter ABSTRACT Recently the demand for cost-effective solutions to the customer service problem has increased significantly. By delivering solutions automatically to the customers, an enterprise can essentially reduce their operating and training cost. In this paper, we present the design and implementation of an online help desk system based on conversational agent. Our system exploits the enabling technologies of artificial intelligence and natural language processing to offer an organization the ability to provide customer service much more economically and interactively than with traditional methods. The proposed system demonstrates a new form of e-service for an organization to increase their customer satisfaction and retention leading to competitive advantage over other organizations.
References J. Lester, K. Branting, and B. Mott, "Conversational Agents", The Practical Handbook of Internet Computing, Chapman&amp;Hall, 2004.
Google Scholar R. Schumaker, Y. Liu, M. Ginsburg, and H. Chen, "Evaluating the Efficacy of a Terrorism Question Answer System: The TARA Project," Communications of the ACM, vol. 50, 2007, pp. 74--80.
Google Scholar Digital Library O. D. Pietro, M. D. Rose, and G. Frontera, "Automatic Update of AIML Knowledge Base in E-Learning Environment," Computers and Advanced Technology in Education, 2005.
Google Scholar O. S. Goh and C. C. Fung, "AINI-Embodied Conversation Agent Applicable for Interactive Games," in the 7th WSEAS International Conference on Applied Computer and Applied Computational Science (ACACOS'08), Hangzhou China, 2008 Google Scholar Cited By Index Terms Implementing an online help desk system based on conversational agent Computing methodologies Artificial intelligence Distributed artificial intelligence Natural language processing Recommendations Exploring Effects of Conversational Fillers on User Perception of Conversational Agents CHI EA '19: Extended Abstracts of the 2019 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems Through technological advancements in various areas of our lives, Conversational Agents progressed in their human-likeness. In the field of HCI, however, the use of conversational fillers (e.g., "um," "uh," etc.) by Conversational Agents have not been ...
Read More Help desk: High-impact Technology - What You Need to Know Definitions, Adoptions, Impact, Benefits, Maturity, Vendors Read More Changes in verbal and nonverbal conversational behavior in long-term interaction ICMI '12: Proceedings of the 14th ACM international conference on Multimodal interaction We present an empirical investigation of conversational behavior in dyadic interaction spanning multiple conversations, in the context of a developing interpersonal relationship between a health counselor and her clients. Using a longitudinal video ...
Read More Comments Login options Check if you have access through your login credentials or your institution to get full access on this article.
Full Access Information Contributors Published in MEDES '09: Proceedings of the International Conference on Management of Emergent Digital EcoSystems October 2009 525 pages ISBN: 9781605588292 DOI: 10.1145/1643823 General Chair: Nicolas Spyratos Universite Paris-Sud, France , Program Chairs: Epaminondas Kapetanios University of Westminster, UK , Agma Traina University of Sao Paulo, Brazil , Publications Chairs: Richard Chbeir Bourgogne University, France Youakim Badr, INSA de Lyon, France , Youakim Badr INSA de Lyon, France Copyright © 2009 ACM Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from [email protected] Sponsors In-Cooperation Publisher Association for Computing Machinery New York, NY, United States Publication History Published: 27 October 2009 Permissions Request permissions about this article.
Request Permissions Check for updates Author Tags conversational agent language understanding help desk system natural language processing Qualifiers research-article Conference Acceptance Rates Overall Acceptance Rate 267 of 682 submissions, 39% Funding Sources Other Metrics View Article Metrics Bibliometrics Citations 13 Article Metrics 13 Total Citations View Citations 395 Total Downloads Downloads (Last 12 months) 38 Downloads (Last 6 weeks) 8 Other Metrics View Author Metrics Cited By View all PDF Format View or Download as a PDF file.
eReader View online with eReader.
Digital Edition View this article in digital edition.
Figures Other Share this Publication link https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/1643823.1643908 Share on Social Media Share on 0 References Close Figure Viewer Browse All Return Change zoom level Caption Export Citations Please download or close your previous search result export first before starting a new bulk export.
Preview is not available.
By clicking download, a status dialog will open to start the export process. The process may take a few minutes but once it finishes a file will be downloadable from your browser. You may continue to browse the DL while the export process is in progress.
Download Download citation Copy citation Journals Magazines Books Proceedings SIGs Conferences Collections People About ACM Digital Library ACM Digital Library Board Subscription Information Author Guidelines Using ACM Digital Library All Holdings within the ACM Digital Library ACM Computing Classification System Digital Library Accessibility Join ACM Join SIGs Subscribe to Publications Institutions and Libraries Contact Facebook Twitter Linkedin Feedback Bug Report Terms of Usage Privacy Policy Code of Ethics Your Search Results Download Request We are preparing your search results for download ...
We will inform you here when the file is ready.
Your Search Results Download Request Your file of search results citations is now ready.
Your Search Results Download Request Your search export query has expired. Please try again.
