old id = 71
Indaba - Deep Learning Indaba 2023
2017
http://www.deeplearningindaba.com

Indaba Organisers Affiliated Communities Sponsorship Prospectus PROGRAMME Speakers Workshops Practicals Research in Africa Showcase POSTERS SHORT PAPERS AFRICAN DATASETS AI PRODUCT DEMOS Accelerating Growth Through AI/ML Ideathon Google Outreach & Mentorship Programme Guidance for staying in Accra Travel Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Recognising our Reviewers Code of Ethics and Conduct IndabaX Awards Kambule Doctoral Award Alele-Williams Masters Award Maathai Impact Award Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Reports Past Editions 2017 2018 2019 2022 Indaba Organisers Affiliated Communities Sponsorship Prospectus PROGRAMME Speakers Workshops Practicals Research in Africa Showcase POSTERS SHORT PAPERS AFRICAN DATASETS AI PRODUCT DEMOS Accelerating Growth Through AI/ML Ideathon Google Outreach & Mentorship Programme Guidance for staying in Accra Travel Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Recognising our Reviewers Code of Ethics and Conduct IndabaX Awards Kambule Doctoral Award Alele-Williams Masters Award Maathai Impact Award Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Reports Past Editions 2017 2018 2019 2022 Deep Learning Indaba 2023 in Ghana January 2023: The Deep Learning Indaba 2023 will be held in Accra, Ghana from the 3rd to the 9th September, with the theme of Yɛbɛtumi (“We Can”).
Sign up the Indaba Mailing List January 2023: We want to send you regular updates on our progress, programmes, and opportunities. Please sign-up to our newsletter.
Venue confirmed: The University of Ghana We look forward to meeting the community in Accra from 3 – 9 September 2023. The Deep Learning Indaba will be held at the University of Ghana.
The Deep Learning Indaba is the annual meeting of the African machine learning and AI community with the mission to Strengthen African AI.
In 2023, the Indaba and Africa’s artificial intelligence community will meet for a week-long event of learning, research, exchange, ideation, and debate around the state of the art in machine learning and artificial intelligence in Accra Ghana from the 3rd to the 9th September.
Yɛbɛtumi (“We Can”) The Deep Learning Indaba is a grassroots movement which exists with the mission to strengthen African Machine Learning. We work towards the goal of Africans being not only observers and receivers of the ongoing advances in AI, but active shapers and owners of these technological advances The word “indaba” is a Zulu word that means “gathering” or “meeting” and is a way for people to come together to engage in a week-long event of learning, research, exchange, ideation, and debate around the state of the art in machine learning and artificial intelligence. The Deep Learning Indaba is inspired by this spirit of community and collaboration and presents a unique opportunity to do just that.
In 2023, the Deep Learning Indaba will be held at the University of Ghana in Accra, Ghana from September 3rd to 9th, 2023. The theme of the event is Yɛbɛtumi, which means “we can” in the Akan (Twi) language.
The event will feature keynote talks from thought leaders in the fields of ML/AI and Ethics, opportunities to learn skills in practical (programming) sessions, mentorship opportunities, a two-day African Research Symposium, deep dive workshops on topics including NLP, AI in Healthcare, Reinforcement Learning, Machine Learning at the Edge, and AI Governance and Policy, and much more! If you are interested in attending the Deep Learning Indaba 2023, please note that applications are now closed. However, you can still sign-up to our newsletter , visit our website regularly and follow us on Twitter for regular updates on our progress, programmes, and opportunities.
DEEP LEARNING INDABA 2023 PARTNERS DEEP LEARNING INDABA 2023 SPONSORS NILE Congo Zambezi Limpopo Volta Sponsorship Prospectus Kambule and Maathai Awards Copyright © Deep Learning Indaba 2017 - 2023. All Rights Reserved.
