About Us - Fusion Processing
2012
https://www.fusionproc.com/about-us

Autonomous Vehicle Systems CAVstar® Automated Drive System Vehicles Autonomous Vans Full sized autonomous bus – E200 Autonomous Cars Last-mile pods Robotic Vehicles Tow Tractors Projects CAVForth Autonomous Bus Depot GATEway Project Venturer Helm Driver Assistance CycleEye® – Driver assistance systems for trucks and buses CycleEye – Mirror Replacement System Forward Collision Avoidance News About Us Careers Menu Type and press enter to search FUSION PROCESSING Fusion Processing was founded in 2012 to design and build world leading systems for the automations of vehicles and technology to improve vehicle safety.
World leaders in automated driving systems, situational awareness and control systems technology, Fusion Processing’s products have clocked up over 1.8 million kilometres of service.
Innovations include CAVstar® a control and sensor system, CycleEye® CMS, a mirror replacement system for buses and trucks, designed and developed in house at their Bristol, UK headquarters. With numerous vehicles taking part in technology trials and commercial operations today, Fusion are driving road safety and enabling smart city traffic management systems that are set to transform the automotive industry.
Our team has a wealth of experience in the advanced engineering and automotive industries. Fusion includes experts in: Situational awareness Vehicle control, decision making and path planning Advanced radar Machine vision Artificial intelligence High performance computing Automotive systems, including connected and autonomous vehicles Vehicle operations High precision aerospace systems Advanced surveillance and tracking systems Leading-edge processor technology Safety systems We use our deep theoretical knowledge, coupled with practical know-how and experience, we have been able to create highly advanced products that are both effective and robust. And our carefully-chosen network of supply chain partners ensures our high quality products can be delivered in volume to your required standards, whilst our experience working with large OEMS ensures we can integrate seamlessly with your processes Certificate Number 18212 ISO 9001 Automation AUTONOMOUS VEHICLE SYSTEMS Fusion Processing continues to develop state-of-the-art technology to autonomise vehicles and improve the safety of vulnerable road users.
Assistance DRIVER ASSISTANCE ADAS: We apply our autonomous tech and knowhow to regular driven vehicles.
Smart Sensors TRAFFIC TRAK Smart cities rely on smooth running highways for the transportation of goods and populations.
Intelligent Sensing And Control Systems For Autonomous Vehicles The world's leading provider of AV Level 4 technology for autonomous buses News Blog News and stories from Fusion along with industry articles and features Ambitious and complex CAVForth autonomous bus service launches in Scotland controlled by Fusion Processing’s Automated Drive System 11 May 2023 11 May 2023 Blog CAVForth is one of the most ambitious and complex autonomous bus trials worldwide. The project...
Continue reading UK’s first full sized fleet of autonomous vehicles to be launched in May 4 April 2023 4 April 2023 Blog Buses will be in operation across the Forth Road Bridge from 15 May 2023 First...
Fusion Processing Ltd awarded share of £6.6m government funding to develop the world’s first SAE Level 4 autonomous hydrogen HGV 1 February 2023 1 February 2023 Blog Two prototype autonomous HGV tractor units are being developed as part of a consortium involving...
Continue reading Posts navigation 1 … Fusion Processing Limited FUTURE SPACE UWE North Gate Filton Rd Stoke Gifford Bristol BS34 8RB United Kingdom Contact Us Tel: +44 (0) 117 911 9258 contact@fusionproc.com Linkedin Twitter About Fusion Processing Fusion Processing was founded in 2012 to design and build world leading systems for the automation of vehicles and technology to improve vehicle safety.
2023 © Fusion Processing Privacy Policy Scroll to top
