old id = 2012
No limit: AI poker bot is first to beat professionals at multiplayer game
2019
https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-019-02156-9

Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles and JavaScript.
Advertisement View all journals Search Log in Explore content About the journal Publish with us Subscribe Sign up for alerts RSS feed nature news article Download PDF NEWS 11 July 2019 No limit: AI poker bot is first to beat professionals at multiplayer game Douglas Heaven 0 Douglas Heaven Douglas Heaven is a science writer based in London.
View author publications You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar Twitter Facebook Email You have full access to this article via your institution.
Download PDF Download PDF Multiplayer poker has fallen to the machines.
Credit: Alexandre Rotenberg/Alamy Machines have raised the stakes once again. A superhuman poker-playing bot called Pluribus has beaten top human professionals at six-player no-limit Texas hold’em poker, the most popular variant of the game. It is the first time that an artificial-intelligence (AI) program has beaten elite human players at a game with more than two players 1.
“While going from two to six players might seem incremental, it’s actually a big deal,” says Julian Togelius at New York University, who studies games and AI. “The multiplayer aspect is something that is not present at all in other games that are currently studied.” The team behind Pluribus had already built an AI, called Libratus, that had beaten professionals at two-player poker.
 It built Pluribus by updating Libratus and created a bot that needs much less computing power to play matches. In a 12-day session with more than 10,000 hands, it beat 15 top human players. “A lot of AI researchers didn’t think it was possible to do this using [our] techniques,” says Noam Brown at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, and Facebook AI Research in New York, who developed Pluribus with his Carnegie colleague Tuomas Sandholm.
Reboot for the AI revolution Other AIs that have mastered human games — such as Libratus and DeepMind’s Go-playing bots — have shown that they are unbeatable in two-player zero-sum matches. In these scenarios, there is always one winner and one loser, and game theory offers a well-defined best strategy.
But game theory is less helpful for scenarios involving multiple parties with competing interests and no clear win–lose conditions — which reflect most real-life challenges. By solving multiplayer poker, Pluribus lays the foundation for future AIs to tackle complex problems of this sort, says Brown. He thinks that their success is a step towards applications such as automated negotiations, better fraud detection and self-driving cars.
Extra complex To tackle six-player poker, Brown and Sandholm radically overhauled Libratus’s search algorithm. Most game-playing AIs search forwards through decision trees for the best move to make in a given situation. Libratus searched to the end of a game before choosing an action.
But the complexity introduced by extra players makes this tactic impractical. Poker requires reasoning with hidden information — players must work out a strategy by considering what cards their opponents might have and what opponents might guess about their hand based on previous betting. But more players makes choosing an action at any given moment more difficult, because it involves assessing a larger number of possibilities.
The key breakthrough was developing a method that allowed Pluribus to make good choices after looking ahead only a few moves rather than to the end of the game.
AI pioneer: ‘The dangers of abuse are very real’ Pluribus teaches itself from scratch using a form of reinforcement learning similar to that used by DeepMind’s Go AI, AlphaZero. It starts off playing poker randomly and improves as it works out which actions win more money. After each hand, it looks back at how it played and checks whether it would have made more money with different actions, such as raising rather than sticking to a bet. If the alternatives lead to better outcomes, it will be more likely to choose theme in future.
By playing trillions of hands of poker against itself, Pluribus created a basic strategy that it draws on in matches. At each decision point, it compares the state of the game with its blueprint and searches a few moves ahead to see how the action played out. It then decides whether it can improve on it. And because it taught itself to play without human input, the AI settled on a few strategies that human players tend not to use.
AI playpen Pluribus’s success is largely down to its efficiency. When playing, it runs on just two central processing units (CPUs). By contrast, DeepMind’s original Go bot used nearly 2,000 CPUs, and Libratus 100 CPUs, when they first beat top professionals. When playing against itself, Pluribus plays a hand in around 20 seconds — roughly twice as fast as professional humans.
Games have proved a great way to measure progress in AI because bots can be scored against top humans — and objectively be hailed as superhuman if they triumph. But Brown thinks that AIs are outgrowing their playpen. “This was the last remaining challenge in poker,” he says.
But Togelius thinks there is mileage yet for AI researchers and games. “There’s a lot of unexplored territory,” he says. Few AIs have mastered more than one game, which requires general ability rather than a niche skill. And there’s more than simply playing games, says Togelius. “There’s also designing them. A great AI challenge if there ever was one.” Nature 571 , 307-308 (2019) doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-019-02156-9 References Brown, N. & Sandholm, T.
Science https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aay2400 (2019).
Article Google Scholar Download references Reprints and Permissions Related Articles Reboot for the AI revolution How rival bots battled their way to poker supremacy AI pioneer: ‘The dangers of abuse are very real’ Subjects Mathematics and computing Latest on: Garbage in, garbage out: mitigating risks and maximizing benefits of AI in research Comment 31 OCT 23 Why the UK-led global AI summit is missing the point Editorial 31 OCT 23 How big quantum computers could keep their qubits under control Research Highlight 26 OCT 23 Jobs [DGIST] The second half of 2023 Tenure-Track Faculty Public Invitation South Korea (KR) DGIST Principle Investigator and Joint Recruitment Position-Postdoc The Center for Evolutionary & Organismal Biology invites applications from evolutionary scientists for All ranks.
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China Center for Evolutionary & Organismal Biology, Zhejiang University Tenure-track Faculty Positions in Particle Physics and Cosmology Faculty Positions in Particle Physics and Cosmology Hong Kong (HK) Department of Physics, The Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (HKUST) Assistant/Associate Professor Center for Virology and Vaccine Research (CVVR) at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center (BIDMC) is seeking Assistant or Associate Professor.
Boston, Massachusetts (US) Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center (BIDMC) Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel to the Global Environment Facility Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel to the Global Environment Facility: Panel Member for Land Degradation Washington D.C. (US) Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP) of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) You have full access to this article via your institution.
Download PDF Download PDF Related Articles Reboot for the AI revolution How rival bots battled their way to poker supremacy AI pioneer: ‘The dangers of abuse are very real’ Subjects Mathematics and computing Sign up to Nature Briefing An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Close Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Close Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Explore content Research articles News Opinion Research Analysis Careers Books & Culture Podcasts Videos Current issue Browse issues Collections Subjects Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Subscribe Sign up for alerts RSS feed About the journal Journal Staff About the Editors Journal Information Our publishing models Editorial Values Statement Journal Metrics Awards Contact Editorial policies History of Nature Send a news tip Publish with us For Authors For Referees Language editing services Submit manuscript Search Quick links Explore articles by subject Find a job Guide to authors Editorial policies Nature ( Nature ) ISSN 1476-4687 (online) ISSN 0028-0836 (print) nature.com sitemap About Nature Portfolio About us Press releases Press office Contact us Discover content Journals A-Z Articles by subject Nano Protocol Exchange Nature Index Publishing policies Nature portfolio policies Open access Author & Researcher services Reprints & permissions Research data Language editing Scientific editing Nature Masterclasses Live Expert Trainer-led workshops Research Solutions Libraries & institutions Librarian service & tools Librarian portal Open research Recommend to library Advertising & partnerships Advertising Partnerships & Services Media kits Branded content Career development Nature Careers Nature Conferences Nature events Regional websites Nature Africa Nature China Nature India Nature Italy Nature Japan Nature Korea Nature Middle East Privacy Policy Use of cookies Your privacy choices/Manage cookies Legal notice Accessibility statement Terms & Conditions Your US state privacy rights © 2023 Springer Nature Limited
