old id = 2277
First-Ever Artificial Neuron Could Let Us Repair Brain Injuries with Silicon
2019
https://singularityhub.com/2019/12/06/first-ever-artificial-neuron-could-let-us-repair-brain-injuries-with-silicon

Topics AI Biotech Computing Space Energy Future Tech Robotics Science Experts Featured Experts Perspectives Books Events Videos Latest Series Interviews About Singularity About Programs Membership Experts Community Careers Subscribe Welcome! Search.
News and Insights from Singularity Group Search Subscribe to our newsletter Singularity Group Singularity Community Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube.
st0{fill:#FFFFFF;} .st1{fill:url(#SVGID_1_);} Singularity Hub News and Insights from Singularity Group Topics Experts Events Videos Search singularity group singularity community Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube.
st0{fill:#FFFFFF;} .st1{fill:url(#SVGID_1_);} Singularity Hub News and Insights from Singularity Group Topics Experts Events Videos Search First-Ever Artificial Neuron Could Let Us Repair Brain Injuries with Silicon By The merging of man and machine is a staple of sci-fi and at the heart of the philosophy of transhumanism.
B ut interfacing our brains with computers has proven incredibly hard, despite the fact that both essentially run on electrical impulses.
Imagine, for example, if a brain injury could be repaired with a computer chip. That may not be too far off; this week , researchers reported on a “solid-state neuron” that accurately model s the behavior of biological nerve cells.
I n a p aper in Nature Communications , t he team say s th e devices could be plugged into biological neur al circuits to repair damage or disease.
“Until now neurons have been like black boxes, but we have managed to open the black box and peer inside,” project leader Alain Nogaret, from the University of Bath in the UK, said in a press release.
 “Our work is paradigm-changing because it provides a robust method to reproduce the electrical properties of real neurons in minute detail.” A major reason it’s been so hard to accurately replicate the behavior of neurons in silicon is because the way they respond to stimuli is non-linear. In other words, a signal twice as strong won’t necessarily elicit a response that’s twice as strong.
The researchers solved the problem by collecting data from two types of rat neuron.
T he first was from the hippocampus region of the brain, which is involved in learning and memory, and the second from the respiratory cente r , which controls breathing.
They used this data to estimate the parameters that control how ions flow through the neurons and then used th ose parameters to create a model that explains how neurons respond to stimuli from other nerves. They then used th at model to build analogue silicon chips that accurately modeled the behavior of real neurons.
To test their chips, they subjected them to 60 different stimulation protocols and compared their responses to those seen i n rat hippocampal and brain stem neurons.
 The chips achieved a 94 percent accuracy.
Critically, the bionic neurons use just 140 nanoWatts of power— a billionth the amount of a regular microprocessor, which makes them much more practical for long-term applications inside the body. Each chip is roughly 0.1 millimeters in diameter , but many of them would need to be combined to create a practical implant, which would be a few millimeters wide.
The researchers have already spun out a company called Ceryx to start developing a smart pacemaker that uses the bionic neurons to respond to signals rather than simply providing a steady beat like a regular pacemaker. But they say their approach is generic and could be used to replicate any of the body’s many different types of neurons.
That could make it possible to repair defective circuits that caus e conditions like heart failure and sleep apnea, but could also potentially replace damaged nerves caused by spinal injuries or help connect robotic limbs to people’s nervous systems, the researchers told The Guardian.
One potential limitation is that the bionic neurons do not replicate the complex connectivity of real ones. Their model doesn’t cover the many branching dendrites that connect neurons to each other, and adding those dynamics might require further components.
The researchers also say they are a long way from replicating larger, more complex brain circuits, and light years off from being able to reproduce an entire brain.
University of Manchester’s Stephen Furber, who has designed a million-processor computer called SpiNNaker designed to model large-scale brain networks, told T he Guardian that using this approach to create networks of even a few hundred million neurons would be unfeasible—and the brain contains roughly 86 billion of them.
“ Because the approach is detailed and laboriously painstaking, it can really only be applied in practice to smallish neural units, such as the respiratory neurons described above, but there are quite a few critical small neural control circuits that are vital to keeping us alive,” he add ed.
Image Credit: An artificial neuron in its protective casing. Photo courtesy of University of Bath Tags Neuroscience RELATED Organisms Without Brains Can Learn, Too—So What Does It Mean to Be a Thinking Creature? October 5, 2023 Party Drug MDMA Inches Closer to Breakthrough Approval for PTSD September 19, 2023 Newly Discovered Spirals of Brain Activity May Help Explain Cognition September 15, 2023 latest Like Humans, This Breakthrough AI Makes Concepts Out of the Words It Learns October 31, 2023 Why Google and Bing’s Embrace of Generative AI Could Upend the SEO Industry October 29, 2023 This Week’s Awesome Tech Stories From Around the Web (Through October 28) October 28, 2023 featured Carl Sagan Detected Life on Earth 30 Years Ago—Here’s Why His Experiment Still Matters Today October 26, 2023 Singularity Hub News and Insights from Singularity Group Singularity labs A 360 Singularity Hub About Creative Commons Pitch Us Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Singularity Group About Executive Program Custom Programs Podcasts Insights Blog Stay connected Facebook Instagram RSS Twitter Youtube Get the latest news from Singularity Hub! Sign Up Copyright © Singularity Group. All rights reserved.
