old id = 2480
Who will lead in the age of artificial intelligence? | Brookings
2019
https://www.brookings.edu/blog/techtank/2019/02/26/who-will-lead-in-the-age-of-artificial-intelligence

Experts Events Research Programs Research & Commentary Newsletters For Media About Us Donate Home War in Israel and Gaza U.S. Economy U.S. Economy U.S. Economy Banking & Finance Economic Indicators Federal Fiscal Policy Federal Reserve Labor & Unemployment Regulatory Policy Retirement Social Safety Net State & Local Finance U.S. Trade Policy Explore topic Hutchins Center Fiscal Impact Measure Hutchins Center Fiscal Impact Measure Making the most of the energy transition: How the Great Lakes can identify priority industries and overcome workforce challenges Making the most of the energy transition: How the Great Lakes can identify priority industries and overcome workforce challenges The impact of Federal Reserve policy on the Fed’s financial conditions index The impact of Federal Reserve policy on the Fed’s financial conditions index U.S. Government & Politics U.S. Government & Politics U.S. Government & Politics Campaigns & Elections Congress Courts & Law Government Reform Political Parties Political Polarization Presidency Public Opinion U.S. Democracy Explore topic Democratic erosion: The role of executive aggrandizement Democratic erosion: The role of executive aggrandizement Who is new Speaker of the House Mike Johnson? Who is new Speaker of the House Mike Johnson? The race for speaker is over — Will the acrimony continue? The race for speaker is over — Will the acrimony continue? Technology & Information Technology & Information Technology & Information Artificial Intelligence Cryptocurrency Cybersecurity Internet & Telecommunications Media & Journalism Privacy Social Media Space Exploration Technology Policy & Regulation Explore topic Don’t be fooled: Net neutrality is about more than just blocking and throttling Don’t be fooled: Net neutrality is about more than just blocking and throttling The online information ecosystem during the Israel-Gaza crisis The online information ecosystem during the Israel-Gaza crisis Interpreting the ambiguities of Section 230 Interpreting the ambiguities of Section 230 Race in Public Policy Race in Public Policy Society & Culture Children & Families Crime, Justice & Safety Demographics & Population Economic Security & Mobility Human Rights & Civil Liberties Immigrants & Immigration Race in Public Policy Religion & Society Social Equity & Inclusion Explore topic Closing the Latino wealth gap: Exploring regional differences and lived experiences Closing the Latino wealth gap: Exploring regional differences and lived experiences Closing the Latino wealth gap: Examining regional differences in Latino communities Closing the Latino wealth gap: Examining regional differences in Latino communities Atlanta’s ‘Cop City’ and the relationship between place, policing, and climate Atlanta’s ‘Cop City’ and the relationship between place, policing, and climate Topics Business & Workforce Cities & Communities Climate & Energy Defense & Security Education Global Economy & Development Health Care International Affairs Society & Culture Technology & Information U.S. Economy U.S. Government & Politics Regions Africa Asia & the Pacific Eurasia Europe Latin America & the Caribbean Middle East & North Africa North America Search Home War in Israel and Gaza U.S. Economy U.S. Government & Politics Technology & Information Race in Public Policy Experts Events Research Programs Research & Commentary Newsletters For Media About Us Search Home Who will lead in the age of artificial intelligence? Sections Share Share Search Sections Share Share Subscribe to the Center for Technology Innovation Newsletter Sign Up Commentary Who will lead in the age of artificial intelligence? Daniel Araya DA Daniel Araya Research and Policy Fellow - Hult International Business School February 26, 2019 5 min read Print Sections Print TechTank TechTank More On Artificial Intelligence Governance Studies China Center for Technology Innovation Accelerating trends in artificial intelligence (AI) point to significant geopolitical disruption in the years ahead. Much as the Industrial Revolution enabled the rise of the United States and other advanced economies, so AI and machine learning are poised to reshape the global order.
Forecasts suggest that AI will add a massive $15.7 trillion to the global economy by 2030.
Prospects for sustaining global competitiveness are now directly tied to the industrialization of AI. The industrial application of AI to a wide array of industries will mean a constant state of innovation. AI is predicted to reshape manufacturing , energy management , urban transportation , agricultural production , labor markets , and financial management.
 Governments that can successfully cultivate a culture of disruptive innovation will be strategically positioned to lead in the twenty-first century. By contrast, governments that resist AI will find themselves facing a daunting future.
Battle of the Titans At the research level, the United States remains highly invested in AI and other disruptive technologies. The National Science Foundation currently invests over $100 million each year in AI research.
DARPA recently announced a $2 billion investment in an initiative called AI Next whose goal is advancing contextual and adaptive reasoning. Meanwhile, the U.S. military has created a new Joint Artificial Intelligence Center (JAIC) to oversee service and defense agency efforts. More recently, the Trump administration has introduced a new executive order for developing a national strategy around AI but has offered little in terms of effective coordination.
By contrast, China’s government has made AI a top priority. Where the U.S. has established a strong lead in AI discovery, it is increasingly likely that China may dominate the industrial application of AI. Not only does China have advanced commercial capabilities in AI and machine learning, but more importantly, it has a coherent national strategy. Alongside China’s expertise in factory machinery, electronics, infrastructure, and renewable energy, the country’s government is increasingly focusing on AI leadership, coordinating efforts across both the public and private sectors.
According to former Google China head Kai-Fu Lee , China’s innovation system is nurturing a kind of global economic duopoly that will inevitably force countries around the world to choose sides. As Lee points out, the strength of China’s economy is a productive synergy between government policies and market forces.
 Unlike the U.S., China’s government has become highly invested in leveraging AI to drive its enormous economy. China’s state-led strategy builds on the country’s national champions Baidu, Alibaba, and Tencent in a long-term effort to restructure the global technology market.
The Chinese Century? China’s government asserts that AI is critical to its future growth. Where China has commoditized computers, electronics, smartphones, infrastructure, telecommunication technologies, and supercomputers, Beijing has now set its sights on ubiquitous AI.
 This includes autonomous vehicles (AVs), advanced medical equipment, robotics, and financial technologies.
Until very recently, most of the AI-driven innovation deployed by Chinese industries has been incremental rather than disruptive—but this is changing. China’s technology sector is reaching a critical mass of expertise, talent, and capital that is realigning global power. In fact, the Chinese government plans to lead the world in AI by 2030, announcing more than $110bn worth of technology merger and acquisition deals since 2015.
China expects to widen its lead in the industrialization of AI by leveraging massively abundant data and rapid prototyping. The country’s growing internet economy generates vastly more data than any other country, particularly through its fintech industry. The Chinese telecom market is the largest in the world and is expanding into emerging markets in Asia, the Middle East, and Africa.
 China alone has more than 800 million internet users—98% of whom are mobile users. With instantaneous mobile payments, for example, China’s telecom infrastructure is providing a tsunami of data for training AI algorithms.
Dominating Industrial AI One very real question today is which country’s economic system will be more successful in the era of industrial AI? China’s highly efficient planning model has become a force to be reckoned with. Even as the big five U.S. technology giants—Amazon, Facebook, Microsoft, Apple, and Google—redefine Western capitalism, China is inventing a kind of “ technonationalism ”. As the US-China Economics Review Commission explains , the Chinese government has a defined and very comprehensive industrial strategy for deliberately replacing foreign technology and products, both at home and abroad. Building on its domestic firms, China is leveraging massive subsidies for R&D as well as government procurement, foreign investment restrictions, and the recruitment of foreign talent, to lead the field in the industrialization of AI.
Related Books China’s Tech Challenge and Opportunity China’s Tech Challenge and Opportunity Bill Whyman September 10, 2014 Artificial intelligence and the future of geopolitics Artificial intelligence and the future of geopolitics John Villasenor November 14, 2018 Beijing’s ‘re-innovation’ strategy is key element of U.S.-China competition Beijing’s ‘re-innovation’ strategy is key element of U.S.-China competition Emily S. Weinstein January 6, 2022 While the U.S. retains a significant commercial and research dominance in AI, resources are fragmented and national leadership is weak. Though Congress has recently passed legislation introducing a national security commission on AI , the U.S. still lacks a coherent vision for coordinating AI. Perhaps an even more challenging problem is the deep divide between the public and private sectors. In the wake of the Edward Snowden revelations , technology professionals now repudiate government , wary of colluding with an opaque military-industrial complex.
The bottom line is that China and the U.S. are pursuing very different paths in the race to lead AI. China is reimagining the world as a single complex network of supply chains and trade arteries. Its ambitions in the field of AI are coordinated and strategic. Meanwhile, President Trump’s national populism and protectionist trade policies have effectively undermined the very liberal order that once justified U.S. leadership. This will need to change. Just as a post-war generation built a liberal global order, so today the U.S. is in need of a new and compelling vision for an AI-driven global society.
Related Content China’s Tech Challenge and Opportunity China’s Tech Challenge and Opportunity Bill Whyman September 10, 2014 Artificial intelligence and the future of geopolitics Artificial intelligence and the future of geopolitics John Villasenor November 14, 2018 Beijing’s ‘re-innovation’ strategy is key element of U.S.-China competition Beijing’s ‘re-innovation’ strategy is key element of U.S.-China competition Emily S. Weinstein January 6, 2022 Authors DA Daniel Araya Research and Policy Fellow - Hult International Business School Business & Workforce function goToLink(event, url) { var type = event.type; if (type === 'click' || (type === 'keydown' && event.keyCode === 13)) { window.location.href = url; event.preventDefault(); event.stopPropagation(); } } Technology & Information Sub-Topics Artificial Intelligence Governance Studies China Center for Technology Innovation Don’t be fooled: Net neutrality is about more than just blocking and throttling Don’t be fooled: Net neutrality is about more than just blocking and throttling Tom Wheeler October 30, 2023 The online information ecosystem during the Israel-Gaza crisis The online information ecosystem during the Israel-Gaza crisis Valerie Wirtschafter October 26, 2023 Interpreting the ambiguities of Section 230 Interpreting the ambiguities of Section 230 Alan Z. Rozenshtein October 26, 2023 Get the latest from Brookings Sign Up twitter facebook linkedin youtube instagram The Brookings Institution is a nonprofit organization based in Washington, D.C. Our mission is to conduct in-depth, nonpartisan research to improve policy and governance at local, national, and global levels.
Research Programs Governance Studies Economic Studies Foreign Policy Global Economy and Development Brookings Metro About Us Leadership Careers Brookings Institution Press WashU at Brookings Contact Brookings Research & Commentary Experts Events Books Podcasts Newsletters Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Copyright 2023 The Brookings Institution {{{ data._highlightResult.post_title.value }}} {{{ data._snippetResult['content'].value }}} {{{ data._highlightResult.name.value }}} {{{ data._highlightResult.display_name.value }}} "{{ data.query }}"
