old id = 621
Azure for Students – Free Account Credit | Microsoft Azure
2019
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/students

window.mscv = 'CASMicrosoftCV324f4b9f.0' window.msservercv = 'CASMicrosoftCV124c4c2a.0.0' window.traceid = undefined; Explore Home Explore Explore Azure Get to know Azure Discover secure, future-ready cloud solutions—on-premises, hybrid, multicloud, or at the edge Global infrastructure Learn about sustainable, trusted cloud infrastructure with more regions than any other provider Cloud economics Build your business case for the cloud with key financial and technical guidance from Azure Customer enablement Plan a clear path forward for your cloud journey with proven tools, guidance, and resources Customer stories See examples of innovation from successful companies of all sizes and from all industries Products Results will display instantly View all products (200+) Home Products View all products (200+) Popular AI + machine learning Analytics Compute Containers Databases DevOps Developer tools Hybrid + multicloud Identity Integration Internet of Things Management and governance Media Migration Mixed reality Mobile Networking Security Storage Web Virtual desktop infrastructure Products Popular Popular Explore some of the most popular Azure products Virtual Machines Provision Windows and Linux VMs in seconds Azure Virtual Desktop Enable a secure, remote desktop experience from anywhere Azure SQL Migrate, modernize, and innovate on the modern SQL family of cloud databases Azure Cosmos DB Build or modernize scalable, high-performance apps Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) Deploy and scale containers on managed Kubernetes Azure AI services Add cognitive capabilities to apps with APIs and AI services App Service Quickly create powerful cloud apps for web and mobile Azure PlayFab Everything you need to build and operate a live game on one platform Azure Functions Execute event-driven serverless code functions with an end-to-end development experience Azure Quantum Jump in and explore a diverse selection of today's quantum hardware, software, and solutions Azure Arc Secure, develop, and operate infrastructure, apps, and Azure services anywhere Azure Operator Insights Remove data silos and deliver business insights from massive datasets Products AI + machine learning AI + machine learning Create the next generation of applications using artificial intelligence capabilities for any developer and any scenario Azure Machine Learning Build, train, and deploy models from the cloud to the edge Azure Cognitive Search Enterprise scale search for app development Azure OpenAI Service Apply advanced coding and language models to a variety of use cases Azure AI Speech Unified speech services for speech-to-text, text-to-speech and speech translation Azure AI Language Add natural language capabilities with a single API call Azure AI Translator Easily conduct machine translation with a simple REST API call Azure AI Vision Unlock insights from image and video content with AI Azure AI Document Intelligence Accelerate information extraction from documents Azure AI Content Safety Use AI to monitor text and image content for safety Products Analytics Analytics Gather, store, process, analyze, and visualize data of any variety, volume, or velocity Azure Synapse Analytics Limitless analytics with unmatched time to insight Azure Databricks Design AI with Apache Spark™-based analytics Microsoft Purview Govern, protect, and manage your data estate Azure Data Factory Hybrid data integration at enterprise scale, made easy HDInsight Provision cloud Hadoop, Spark, R Server, HBase, and Storm clusters Azure Stream Analytics Real-time analytics on fast-moving streaming data Azure Machine Learning Build, train, and deploy models from the cloud to the edge Azure Analysis Services Enterprise-grade analytics engine as a service Azure Data Lake Storage Scalable, secure data lake for high-performance analytics Azure Data Explorer Fast and highly scalable data exploration service Products Compute Compute Access cloud compute capacity and scale on demand—and only pay for the resources you use Virtual Machines Provision Windows and Linux VMs in seconds Virtual Machine Scale Sets Manage and scale up to thousands of Linux and Windows VMs Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) Deploy and scale containers on managed Kubernetes Azure Spring Apps Build and deploy Spring Boot applications with a fully managed service from Microsoft and VMware App Service Quickly create powerful cloud apps for web and mobile Azure Functions Execute event-driven serverless code functions with an end-to-end development experience Azure Dedicated Host A dedicated physical server to host your Azure VMs for Windows and Linux Batch Cloud-scale job scheduling and compute management SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines Migrate SQL Server workloads to the cloud at lower total cost of ownership (TCO) Azure Spot Virtual Machines Provision unused compute capacity at deep discounts to run interruptible workloads Azure Container Apps Build and deploy modern apps and microservices using serverless containers Products Containers Containers Develop and manage your containerized applications faster with integrated tools Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) Deploy and scale containers on managed Kubernetes Azure Red Hat OpenShift Deploy and scale containers on managed Red Hat OpenShift Azure Container Apps Build and deploy modern apps and microservices using serverless containers Azure Functions Execute event-driven serverless code functions with an end-to-end development experience Web App for Containers Run containerized web apps on Windows and Linux Azure Container Instances Launch containers with hypervisor isolation Azure Service Fabric Deploy and operate always-on, scalable, distributed apps Azure Container Registry Build, store, secure, and replicate container images and artifacts Azure Kubernetes Fleet Manager Seamlessly manage Kubernetes clusters at scale Azure Kubernetes Service Edge Essentials Azure Kubernetes Service Edge Essentials is an on-premises Kubernetes implementation of Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) that automates running containerized applications at scale.
Products Databases Databases Support rapid growth and innovate faster with secure, enterprise-grade, and fully managed database services Azure SQL Migrate, modernize, and innovate on the modern SQL family of cloud databases Azure Cosmos DB Build or modernize scalable, high-performance apps Azure SQL Database Build apps that scale with managed and intelligent SQL database in the cloud Azure Database for PostgreSQL Fully managed, intelligent, and scalable PostgreSQL Azure SQL Managed Instance Modernize SQL Server applications with a managed, always-up-to-date SQL instance in the cloud Azure Database for MySQL Fully managed, scalable MySQL Database SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines Migrate SQL Server workloads to the cloud at lower total cost of ownership (TCO) Azure Cache for Redis Accelerate apps with high-throughput, low-latency data caching Azure Database Migration Service Accelerate your data migration to Azure Azure Managed Instance for Apache Cassandra Modernize Cassandra data clusters with a managed instance in the cloud Azure Database for MariaDB Deploy applications to the cloud with enterprise-ready, fully managed community MariaDB Products DevOps DevOps Deliver innovation faster with simple, reliable tools for continuous delivery Azure DevOps Services for teams to share code, track work, and ship software Azure Pipelines Continuously build, test, and deploy to any platform and cloud Azure Boards Plan, track, and discuss work across your teams Azure Repos Get unlimited, cloud-hosted private Git repos for your project Azure Artifacts Create, host, and share packages with your team Azure Test Plans Test and ship confidently with an exploratory test toolkit Azure DevTest Labs Quickly create environments using reusable templates and artifacts DevOps tool integrations Use your favorite DevOps tools with Azure Azure Monitor Full observability into your applications, infrastructure, and network Azure Load Testing Optimize app performance with high-scale load testing Azure Deployment Environments Quickly spin up app infrastructure environments with project-based templates Azure Managed Grafana Deploy Grafana dashboards as a fully managed Azure service Products Developer tools Developer tools Build, manage, and continuously deliver cloud applications—using any platform or language Visual Studio Powerful and flexible environment to develop apps in the cloud Visual Studio Code A powerful, lightweight code editor for cloud development GitHub World’s leading developer platform, seamlessly integrated with Azure Visual Studio Subscriptions Comprehensive set of resources to create, deploy, and manage apps Power Apps A powerful, low-code platform for building apps quickly SDKs Get the SDKs and command-line tools you need App Center Build, test, release, and monitor your mobile and desktop apps Azure Monitor Full observability into your applications, infrastructure, and network Azure Load Testing Optimize app performance with high-scale load testing Azure Deployment Environments Quickly spin up app infrastructure environments with project-based templates Products Hybrid + multicloud Hybrid + multicloud Get Azure innovation everywhere—bring the agility and innovation of cloud computing to your on-premises workloads Azure Arc Secure, develop, and operate infrastructure, apps, and Azure services anywhere Microsoft Sentinel Cloud-native SIEM and intelligent security analytics Azure Stack Build and run innovative hybrid apps across cloud boundaries Azure ExpressRoute Experience a fast, reliable, and private connection to Azure Microsoft Entra ID (formerly Azure AD) Synchronize on-premises directories and enable single sign-on Azure SQL Migrate, modernize, and innovate on the modern SQL family of cloud databases Azure DevOps Services for teams to share code, track work, and ship software Azure Database for PostgreSQL Fully managed, intelligent, and scalable PostgreSQL Azure IoT Edge Extend cloud intelligence and analytics to edge devices Products Identity Identity Manage user identities and access to protect against advanced threats across devices, data, apps, and infrastructure Azure Active Directory External Identities Consumer identity and access management in the cloud Azure Active Directory Domain Services Manage your domain controllers in the cloud Products Integration Integration Seamlessly integrate on-premises and cloud-based applications, data, and processes across your enterprise Logic Apps Automate the access and use of data across clouds Service Bus Connect across private and public cloud environments API Management Publish APIs to developers, partners, and employees securely and at scale Event Grid Reliable message delivery at massive scale Azure Data Manager for Energy Reduce time, risk, and cost of energy exploration and production Microsoft Azure Data Manager for Agriculture Azure Data Manager for Agriculture extends the Microsoft Intelligent Data Platform with industry-specific data connectors and capabilities to bring together farm data from disparate sources, enabling organizations to leverage high quality datasets and accelerate the development of digital agriculture solutions Products Internet of Things Internet of Things Connect assets or environments, discover insights, and drive informed actions to transform your business Azure IoT Hub Connect, monitor, and manage billions of IoT assets Azure Digital Twins Use IoT spatial intelligence to create models of physical environments Azure IoT Edge Extend cloud intelligence and analytics to edge devices Azure IoT Central Go from proof of concept to proof of value Azure Sphere Create, connect, and maintain secured intelligent IoT devices from the edge to the cloud Windows for IoT Build intelligent edge solutions with world-class developer tools, long-term support, and enterprise-grade security.
Azure RTOS Making embedded IoT development and connectivity easy Azure Machine Learning Use an enterprise-grade service for the end-to-end machine learning lifecycle Azure Maps Add location data and mapping visuals to business applications and solutions Products Management and governance Management and governance Simplify, automate, and optimize the management and compliance of your cloud resources Microsoft Azure portal Build, manage, and monitor all Azure products in a single, unified console Microsoft Purview Govern, protect, and manage your data estate Azure mobile app Stay connected to your Azure resources—anytime, anywhere Cloud Shell Streamline Azure administration with a browser-based shell Azure Advisor Your personalized Azure best practices recommendation engine Azure Backup Simplify data protection with built-in backup management at scale Microsoft Cost Management Monitor, allocate, and optimize cloud costs with transparency, accuracy, and efficiency Azure Policy Implement corporate governance and standards at scale Azure Site Recovery Keep your business running with built-in disaster recovery service Azure Chaos Studio Improve application resilience by introducing faults and simulating outages Azure Monitor Full observability into your applications, infrastructure, and network Azure Managed Grafana Deploy Grafana dashboards as a fully managed Azure service Products Media Media Deliver high-quality video content anywhere, any time, and on any device Media Services Encode, store, and stream video and audio at scale Encoding Studio grade encoding at cloud scale Azure Media Player A single player for all your playback needs Live and On-Demand Streaming Deliver content to virtually all devices with ability to scale Content Protection Securely deliver content using AES, PlayReady, Widevine, and Fairplay Content Delivery Network Fast, reliable content delivery network with global reach Products Migration Migration Simplify and accelerate your migration to the cloud with guidance, tools, and resources Azure Migrate Simplify migration and modernization with a unified platform Azure Site Recovery Keep your business running with built-in disaster recovery service Azure Database Migration Service Accelerate your data migration to Azure Azure Data Box Appliances and solutions for data transfer to Azure and edge compute Microsoft Cost Management Monitor, allocate, and optimize cloud costs with transparency, accuracy, and efficiency Products Mixed reality Mixed reality Blend your physical and digital worlds to create immersive, collaborative experiences Spatial Anchors Create multi-user, spatially aware mixed reality experiences Remote Rendering Render high-quality, interactive 3D content with real-time streaming Azure Digital Twins Use IoT spatial intelligence to create models of physical environments Kinect DK Build for mixed reality using AI sensors Object Anchors Automatically align and anchor 3D content to objects in the physical world Products Mobile Mobile Build and deploy cross-platform and native apps for any mobile device Notification Hubs Send push notifications to any platform from any back end App Center Build, test, release, and monitor your mobile and desktop apps Xamarin Create cloud-powered mobile apps faster Azure Maps Add location data and mapping visuals to business applications and solutions API Management Publish APIs to developers, partners, and employees securely and at scale Azure Cognitive Search Enterprise scale search for app development Azure AI services Add cognitive capabilities to apps with APIs and AI services Spatial Anchors Create multi-user, spatially aware mixed reality experiences App Service Quickly create powerful cloud apps for web and mobile Azure Communication Services Build multichannel communication experiences Products Networking Networking Connect cloud and on-premises infrastructure and services to provide your customers and users the best possible experience Virtual Network Create your own private network infrastructure in the cloud Load Balancer Deliver high availability and network performance to your apps Application Gateway Build secure, scalable, highly available web front ends in Azure VPN Gateway Establish secure, cross-premises connectivity Azure DNS Host your Domain Name System (DNS) domain in Azure Content Delivery Network Fast, reliable content delivery network with global reach Azure DDoS Protection Protect your Azure resources from distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks Azure Orbital Ground Station Rapidly ingest data from space into the cloud with a satellite ground station service Azure ExpressRoute Experience a fast, reliable, and private connection to Azure Azure Network Function Manager Extend Azure management for deploying 5G and SD-WAN network functions on edge devices Azure Virtual Network Manager Centrally manage virtual networks in Azure from a single pane of glass Azure Private Link Private access to services hosted on the Azure platform, keeping your data on the Microsoft network Products Security Security Protect your enterprise from advanced threats across hybrid cloud workloads Microsoft Sentinel Cloud-native SIEM and intelligent security analytics Application Gateway Build secure, scalable, highly available web front ends in Azure Key Vault Safeguard and maintain control of keys and other secrets VPN Gateway Establish secure, cross-premises connectivity Azure DDoS Protection Protect your Azure resources from distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks Azure Bastion Fully managed service that helps secure remote access to your virtual machines Web Application Firewall A cloud-native web application firewall (WAF) service that provides powerful protection for web apps Azure Firewall Protect your Azure Virtual Network resources with cloud-native network security Azure Firewall Manager Central network security policy and route management for globally distributed, software-defined perimeters Products Storage Storage Get secure, massively scalable cloud storage for your data, apps, and workloads Azure Disk Storage High-performance, highly durable block storage Azure Data Lake Storage Scalable, secure data lake for high-performance analytics Azure Files Simple, secure and serverless enterprise-grade cloud file shares Azure NetApp Files Enterprise-grade Azure file shares, powered by NetApp Azure Backup Simplify data protection with built-in backup management at scale Azure Blob Storage Massively scalable and secure object storage Azure Data Box Appliances and solutions for data transfer to Azure and edge compute Archive Storage Industry leading price point for storing rarely accessed data Azure Elastic SAN Elastic SAN is a cloud-native storage area network (SAN) service built on Azure. Gain access to an end-to-end experience like your on-premises SAN Azure Container Storage Manage persistent volumes for stateful container applications Azure Managed Lustre Azure Managed Lustre is a fully managed, cloud based parallel file system that enables customers to run their high performance computing (HPC) workloads in the cloud Products Web Web Build, deploy, and scale powerful web applications quickly and efficiently Web Apps Quickly create and deploy mission-critical web apps at scale API Management Publish APIs to developers, partners, and employees securely and at scale Content Delivery Network Fast, reliable content delivery network with global reach Azure Cognitive Search Enterprise scale search for app development Azure SignalR Service Add real-time web functionalities easily Azure Web PubSub Easily build real-time messaging web applications using WebSockets and the publish-subscribe pattern Azure Maps Add location data and mapping visuals to business applications and solutions Static Web Apps Streamlined full-stack development from source code to global high availability Azure Communication Services Build multichannel communication experiences Azure Load Testing Optimize app performance with high-scale load testing Azure Fluid Relay Easily add real-time collaborative experiences to your apps with Fluid Framework Azure Container Apps Build and deploy modern apps and microservices using serverless containers Products Virtual desktop infrastructure Virtual desktop infrastructure Empower employees to work securely from anywhere with a cloud-based virtual desktop infrastructure Azure Virtual Desktop Enable a secure, remote desktop experience from anywhere VMware Horizon Cloud on Microsoft Azure Provision Windows desktops and apps with VMware and Azure Virtual Desktop Citrix Virtual Apps and Desktops for Azure Provision Windows desktops and apps on Azure with Citrix and Azure Virtual Desktop Azure Lab Services Set up virtual labs for classes, training, hackathons, and other related scenarios Solutions View all solutions (40+) Home Solutions View all solutions (40+) Use cases Organization type Resources Solutions Use cases Use cases Application development Build, manage, and continuously deliver cloud apps—with any platform or language AI Analyze images, comprehend speech, and make predictions using data Cloud migration and modernization Simplify and accelerate your migration and modernization with guidance, tools, and resources Data and analytics Gather, store, process, analyze, and visualize data of any variety, volume, or velocity Hybrid cloud and infrastructure Bring the agility and innovation of the cloud to your on-premises workloads Internet of Things Connect, monitor, and control devices with secure, scalable, and open edge-to-cloud solutions Security and governance Help protect data, apps, and infrastructure with trusted security services Back Application development Back Application development Development and testing Simplify and accelerate development and testing (dev/test) across any platform.
DevOps Bring together people, processes, and products to continuously deliver value to customers and coworkers.
DevSecOps Build secure apps on a trusted platform. Embed security in your developer workflow and foster collaboration between developers, security practitioners, and IT operators.
E-commerce Give customers what they want with a personalized, scalable, and secure shopping experience.
Low-code application development on Azure Turn your ideas into applications faster using the right tools for the job.
Microservice applications Create reliable apps and functionalities at scale and bring them to market faster.
Mobile Reach your customers everywhere, on any device, with a single mobile app build.
Modern application development Respond to changes faster, optimize costs, and ship confidently.
Serverless computing Build apps faster by not having to manage infrastructure.
Messaging services on Azure Connect modern applications with a comprehensive set of messaging services on Azure.
Application and data modernization Accelerate time to market, deliver innovative experiences, and improve security with Azure application and data modernization.
Business SaaS apps Use business insights and intelligence from Azure to build software as a service (SaaS) apps Azure SaaS Development Kit Move to a SaaS model faster with a kit of prebuilt code, templates, and modular resources.
Web3 Explore services to help you develop and run Web3 applications.
Back AI Back AI AI Build mission-critical solutions to analyze images, comprehend speech, and make predictions using data.
Knowledge mining Uncover latent insights from across all of your business data with AI.
Azure confidential computing Protect your data and code while the data is in use in the cloud.
Hugging Face on Azure Build machine learning models faster with Hugging Face on Azure.
Back Cloud migration and modernization Back Cloud migration and modernization Azure cloud migration and modernization center Save money and improve efficiency by migrating and modernizing your workloads to Azure with proven tools and guidance..
NET apps migration Optimize costs, operate confidently, and ship features faster by migrating your ASP.NET web apps to Azure.
Development and testing Simplify and accelerate development and testing (dev/test) across any platform.
Linux on Azure Enhanced security and hybrid capabilities for your mission-critical Linux workloads.
Mainframe and midrange migration Reduce infrastructure costs by moving your mainframe and midrange apps to Azure.
SAP on the Microsoft Cloud Extend SAP applications and innovate in the cloud trusted by SAP.
SQL Server migration Move your SQL Server databases to Azure with few or no application code changes.
Windows Server on Azure Migrate your Windows Server workloads to Azure for unparalleled innovation and security.
Azure confidential computing Protect your data and code while the data is in use in the cloud.
Application and data modernization Accelerate time to market, deliver innovative experiences, and improve security with Azure application and data modernization.
Integration services on Azure Seamlessly integrate applications, systems, and data for your enterprise.
Migration and modernization for Oracle workloads Run your Oracle database and enterprise applications on Azure.
MongoDB Atlas on Azure Migrate MongoDB workloads to the cloud and modernize data infrastructure with MongoDB Atlas on Azure.
FinOps on Azure Maximize cloud business value for your organization by leveraging Azure products and services to implement FinOps best practices that can support cloud cost optimization.
Back Data and analytics Back Data and analytics Business intelligence Drive faster, more efficient decision making by drawing deeper insights from your analytics.
Cloud-scale analytics Accelerate time to insights with an end-to-end cloud analytics solution.
Back Hybrid cloud and infrastructure Back Hybrid cloud and infrastructure Backup and disaster recovery Minimize disruption to your business with cost-effective backup and disaster recovery solutions.
High-performance computing (HPC) Get fully managed, single tenancy supercomputers with high-performance storage and no data movement.
Hybrid and multicloud solutions Bring innovation anywhere to your hybrid environment across on-premises, multicloud, and the edge.
Azure private multi-access edge compute (MEC) Deliver ultra-low-latency networking, applications and services at the enterprise edge.
Business-critical applications Run your mission-critical applications on Azure for increased operational agility and security.
Quantum computing Experience quantum impact today with the world's first full-stack, quantum computing cloud ecosystem.
Azure public multi-access edge compute (MEC) Deliver ultra-low-latency networking, applications, and services at the mobile operator edge.
Web3 Explore services to help you develop and run Web3 applications.
5G and Space Bring Azure to the edge with seamless network integration and connectivity to deploy modern connected apps.
Windows Server on Azure Migrate your Windows Server workloads to Azure for unparalleled innovation and security.
Back Internet of Things Back Internet of Things Azure IoT Connect devices, analyze data, and automate processes with secure, scalable, and open edge-to-cloud solutions.
Azure Industrial IoT Build open, interoperable IoT solutions that secure and modernize industrial systems.
Azure IoT for safer workplaces Help safeguard physical work environments with scalable IoT solutions designed for rapid deployment.
IoT for sustainability Meet environmental sustainability goals and accelerate conservation projects with IoT technologies.
Back Security and governance Back Security and governance Azure governance Ensure compliance using built-in cloud governance capabilities.
Backup and disaster recovery Minimize disruption to your business with cost-effective backup and disaster recovery solutions.
Azure confidential computing Protect your data and code while the data is in use in the cloud.
Azure network security Cloud-native network security for protecting your applications, network, and workloads.
Web3 Explore services to help you develop and run Web3 applications.
Solutions Organization type Organization type Startups Get started easily, run lean, stay agile, and grow fast with Azure for startups Nonprofits Accelerate mission impact, increase innovation, and optimize efficiency—with world-class security Solutions Resources Resources Reference architectures Find reference architectures, example scenarios, and solutions for common workloads on Azure Resources for accelerating growth Do more with less—explore resources for increasing efficiency, reducing costs, and driving innovation Azure Marketplace Search from a rich catalog of more than 17,000 certified apps and services Customer enablement Plan a clear path forward for your cloud journey with proven tools, guidance, and resources Pricing Home Pricing How to buy Azure pricing Get the best value at every stage of your cloud journey Free Azure services See which services offer free monthly amounts Pay as you go Only pay for what you use, plus get free services Flexible purchase options Find the options that work best for you Azure benefits and incentives Explore special offers, benefits, and incentives Pricing tools and resources Pricing calculator Estimate the costs for Azure products and services TCO calculator Estimate your total cost of ownership and cost savings Optimize your costs Learn how to manage and optimize your cloud spend Cloud economics Understand the value and economics of moving to Azure Partners Home Partners Find a partner Azure Marketplace Find, try, and buy trusted apps and services Find a partner Get up and running in the cloud with help from an experienced partner Become a partner Azure Partner Zone Find the latest content, news, and guidance to lead customers to the cloud Azure technology partners Build, extend, and scale your apps on a trusted cloud platform Publish your app Reach more customers—sell directly to over 4M users a month in the commercial marketplace Resources Home Resources Learning Get started with Azure Training and certifications Customer stories Analyst reports, white papers, and e-books Videos Learn more about cloud computing Technical resources Documentation Developer resources Quickstart templates Community Developer community Students Developer stories What's new Blog Events and Webinars Learn Support Contact Sales Free account Sign in Build in the cloud free with Azure for Students Use your university or school email to sign up and renew each year you're a student Start with $100 Azure credit No credit card required + Free services Get popular services free while you have your credit.
Here's just some of what you can do with Azure Start building apps Develop with your favorite languages and create custom apps in Visual Studio.
Explore AI Give your apps the ability to see, hear, speak, understand language, and do more with smart APIs and Azure AI Services.
Work with big data sets Build and train machine learning models faster with the latest open-source technologies.
Take advantage of free products These products are free up to the specified monthly amounts. Some are always free to all Azure customers, and some are free for 12 months to new customers only.
12 Months Azure Virtual Machines—Windows 750 hours each of B1s, B2pts v2 (Arm-based), and B2ats v2 (AMD-based) burstable VMs 12 Months Azure Virtual Machines—Linux 750 hours each of B1s, B2pts v2 (Arm-based), and B2ats v2 (AMD-based) burstable VMs Always Azure SQL Database 100,000 vCore seconds of SQL database serverless usage per month with 32 GB of storage 12 Months Azure Blob Storage 5 GB locally redundant storage (LRS) hot block with 20,000 read and 10,000 write operations Always Azure Cosmos DB 1,000 request units per-second provisioned throughput with 25 GB storage Always Azure App Service 10 web, mobile, or API apps with 1 GB storage 1 hour per day Always Azure Functions 1 million requests Always Azure Event Grid 100,000 operations per month Take advantage of free products These products are free up to the specified monthly amounts. Some are always free to all Azure customers, and some are free for 12 months to new customers only.
Azure service Description Type Free monthly amount Free period Advisor Get personalized recommendations and best practices for Azure.
Management and governance Unlimited Always API Management Manage APIs across all platforms with a hybrid, multicloud platform.
Integration 1 million monthly calls free with Consumption tier Always App Configuration Store and manage configurations for all your Azure apps.
Developer tools 1,000 requests per day with 10 MB storage Always App Service Quickly create powerful apps for any platform or device using your choice of tools including Node.js and PHP.
Compute 10 web, mobile, or API apps with 1 GB storage 1 hour per day Always Archive Storage Store and manage rarely accessed data with locally redundant storage (LRS) or geo-redundant storage (GRS).
Storage 10 GB LRS storage, 10 GB LRS or GRS write and retrieval, and 100 reads 12 months Automation Simplify cloud management with process automation.
Management and governance 500 minutes of job runtime Always Azure AI Anomaly Detector Detect anomalies in data to quickly identify and troubleshoot issues.
AI + machine learning 20,000 transactions S0 tier 12 months Azure AI Bot Service Develop intelligent, enterprise-grade bots that scale on demand.
AI + machine learning 10,000 premium channel messages and unlimited standard channel messages Always Azure AI Content Safety Moderate text and images to provide a safer, more positive user experience.
AI + machine learning 10,000 transactions S0 tier to moderate or review 12 months Azure AI Customer Vision Easily customize computer vision models for your unique use case.
AI + machine learning 10,000 predictions S0 tier, one training hour, two projects with 5,000 training images each 12 months Azure AI Document Intelligence Automate the extraction of text, key/value pairs, and tables from your documents.
AI + machine learning 500 pages S0 tier 12 months Azure AI Immersive Reader Embed text reading and comprehension capabilities into applications.
AI + machine learning 3 million characters Always Azure AI Language Extract information such as sentiment, key phrases, named entities, and language from your text.
AI + machine learning 5,000 text records Always Azure AI Metrics Advisor Embed AI-powered monitoring features to proactively diagnose issues.
AI + machine learning 25 time series Always Azure AI Personalizer Deliver rich, personalized experiences for every user.
AI + machine learning 50,000 transactions S0 tier 12 months Azure AI Translator Add real-time, multi-language text translation to your apps, websites, and tools.
AI + machine learning 2 million characters S0 tier 12 months Azure Arc Extend Azure management and services.
Hybrid + multicloud Free Azure control plane functionality for resources outside Azure, search and indexing for Azure Arc-enabled resources Always Azure Attestation Verify the identity and security posture of trusted platform modules and trusted execution environments.
Security Free Always Azure Cosmos DB Build modern apps at any scale using a fast NoSQL database with open APIs.
Databases 400 request units per-second provisioned throughput with 25 GB storage 12 months Azure Cosmos DB Build modern apps at any scale using a fast NoSQL database with open APIs.
Databases 1,000 request units per-second provisioned throughput with 25 GB storage Always Azure Database for MySQL Host a fully managed, scalable MySQL database in Azure.
Databases 750 hours of Flexible Server—Burstable B1MS Instance, 32 GB storage, and 32 GB backup storage 12 months Azure Database for PostgreSQL Build intelligent, scalable apps with fully managed database for PostgreSQL.
Databases 750 hours of Flexible Server—Burstable B1MS Instance, 32 GB storage, and 32 GB backup storage 12 months Azure DevOps Build apps in any language using Git repos, CI/CD, and build and release automation.
Developer tools 5 users with unlimited private Git repos Always Azure Files Migrate to simple, distributed, cross-platform file storage without changing code.
Storage 100 GB of LRS transaction optimized, hot, and cool files. 2 million read, list, and other file operations 12 months Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) Deploy and manage containers using the tools you choose.
Compute Free Always Azure Lighthouse Manage service providers with Zero Trust access controls.
Management and governance Free Always Azure Managed Applications, Service catalog Make it easier to acquire services with a catalog of approved cloud offerings.
Management and governance Free publishing Always Azure Maps Create location-aware web and mobile applications using geospatial services, APIs, and SDKs.
Internet of Things 1,000 to 5,000 transactions for specific mapping and location insights features Always Azure Migrate Discover, assess, right-size, and migrate your on-premises virtual machines to Azure.
Migration Free Always Azure Policy Achieve real-time cloud compliance at scale with consistent resource governance.
Management and governance Free access to configuration and change tracking features Always Azure Resource Mover Simplify how you move multiple resources between Azure regions.
Management and governance Free (ingress and egress charges may apply) Always Azure SignalR Service Add real-time communications into your web applications.
Web 20 concurrent connections per unit and 20,000 messages Always Bandwidth (Data Transfer) Transfer data inbound and outbound through our robust network of global data centers.
Networking 15 GB outbound 12 months Bandwidth (Data Transfer) Transfer data inbound and outbound through our robust network of global data centers.
Networking 100 GB outbound Always Batch Scale your application in the cloud with job orchestration and scheduling for HPC applications.
Compute Free Always Blob Storage Use massively scalable object storage for any type of unstructured data.
Storage 5 GB locally redundant storage (LRS) hot block with 20,000 read and 10,000 write operations 12 months Cloud Shell Manage Azure resources in a browser-based shell using popular command-line tools and programming languages.
Management and governance 5 GB free storage in Azure Files for 12 months Always Cognitive Search Include a cloud search service in your web and mobile application.
AI + machine learning 50 MB storage for 10,000 hosted documents and 3 indexes per service Always Computer Vision Extract rich information from images to categorize and process visual data.
5,000 transactions for each S1, S2, and S3 tier 12 months Container Apps Build and deploy modern apps and microservices using serverless containers.
Containers 180,000 vCPU seconds, 360,000 GiB seconds, and 2 million requests Always Container Registry Store and manage container images across all types of Azure deployments.
Containers 1 Standard tier registry with 100 GB storage and 10 webhooks 12 months Cost Management Monitor, allocate, and optimize cloud costs with transparency, accuracy, and efficiency.
Management and governance Free Always Data Catalog Get more value from your enterprise data assets.
Analytics Unlimited users Always Data Factory Compose and manage data services at scale.
Analytics 5 low-frequency activities Always Database Migration Service Simplify on-premises database migration to the cloud.
Databases Free Standard Compute Always DevTest Labs Enable fast, easy, and lean dev-test environments.
Developer tools Free Always Event Grid Get reliable event delivery at massive scale.
Integration 100,000 operations per month Always Face Detect, identify, analyze, organize, and tag faces in images.
30,000 transactions S0 tier 12 months Face Detect, identify, analyze, organize, and tag faces in images.
30,000 transactions of Free instance Always Functions Process events with a serverless code architecture.
Compute 1 million requests Always Health Bot Build and deploy AI-powered, compliant, conversational healthcare experiences at scale.
AI + machine learning 3,000 messages (up to 10 messages per second) Always Health Data Services Unify and manage health data and protected health information (PHI) in the cloud.
Integration 1 GB structured and blob storage, 50,000 API requests, .5 GB transformation operations, 100,000 events Always IoT Edge Extend cloud intelligence and analytics to IoT edge devices.
Internet of Things Free, open-source edge runtime Always IoT Hub Connect, monitor, and manage IoT assets with a scalable platform.
Internet of Things 8,000 messages per day and .5 KB message meter size of Free edition Always Key Vault Safeguard and maintain control of keys and other secrets.
Security 10,000 transactions RSA 2048-bit keys or secret operations, Standard tier 12 months Language Understanding (LUIS) Build natural language understanding into apps, bots, and IoT devices.
AI + machine learning 10,000 text request transactions S0 tier 12 months Load Balancer Instantly add scale, availability, and network performance to your applications.
Networking 750 hours, 15 GB of data processing, and up to five rules with Standard Load Balancer 12 months Logic Apps Build automated integration solutions across clouds and on-premises systems.
Integration 4,000 built-in actions with the Consumption plan Always Machine Learning Develop and run R and Python models on your platform of choice.
AI + machine learning Free Always Managed Disks Get high performance, durable block storage for Azure Virtual Machines with simplified management.
Storage 2 64 GB (P6) solid state drives SSD storage, plus 1 GB snapshot and 2 million I/O operations 12 months Media Services, Encoding feature Index, package, protect, and stream video and audio at scale.
Media 20 output minutes Standard encoder video or audio source file encoding 12 months Media Services, Live and on-demand streaming Deliver content to virtually any device at scale.
Media 5 hours each of Standard Passthrough, Live Transcription, and Standard Streaming endpoint 12 months Microsoft Entra ID (formerly Azure AD) Enable identity and access management in the cloud.
Identity 50,000 stored objects with single sign-on (SSO) to all cloud apps Always Monitor Gain full observability into your applications, infrastructure, and network.
Management and governance See Azure Monitor pricing details for free amounts per feature Always Network Watcher Monitor, diagnose, and gain insights into your network performance and health.
Networking 5 GB storage with 1,000 checks, 10 tests, and 10 connection metrics Always Notification Hubs Send push notifications to any platform from any back end.
Mobile 1 million push notifications with free namespace Always Open Datasets Accelerate machine learning with curated datasets.
AI + machine learning Free (egress charges may apply) Always Private Link Privately access services on Azure, keeping your data on the Microsoft network.
Networking Free Always Resource Manager Simplify how you manage your app resources.
Management and governance Free Always Security Center Prevent, detect, and respond to threats with increased visibility and control over the security of your Azure resources.
Security Free policy assessment and recommendations Always Service Bus Get reliable cloud messaging as a service with simple hybrid integration.
Integration 750 hours and 13 million operations Standard tier base unit 12 months Service Fabric Build and operate always-on, scalable, distributed apps.
Containers Free Always Spatial Anchors Build mixed reality apps that map, share, and persist 3D content.
Mixed reality 10,000 anchors queried Always Speaker Recognition Accurately verify and identify speakers by their unique voice characteristics.
AI + machine learning 10,000 transactions each of speaker verification, speaker identification, and voice storage Always Speech to Text Transcribe spoken audio to text.
AI + machine learning 5 audio hours each of Standard, Custom, and Conversation Transcription Multichannel Audio, 1 Custom endpoint hosting model Always Speech Translation Integrate real-time speech translation into your app.
AI + machine learning 5 audio hours Standard Always SQL Database Create a SQL database that delivers intelligence built-in.
Databases 100,000 vCore seconds of SQL database serverless usage per month with 32 GB of storage Always SQL Server 2019 Developer Edition Build, test, and demonstrate applications in a nonproduction environment.
Developer tools Free Always Static Web Apps Streamline full-stack development from source code to global high availability.
Compute 100 GB bandwidth per subscription, 2 custom domains and .5 GB storage per app Always Text to Speech Build apps that convert text to lifelike speech.
AI + machine learning 5 million characters Standard, 500,000 characters Neural, and hosting model Always Virtual Machines—Linux Create Linux virtual machines (VMs) in seconds to meet your workload and budget needs.
Compute 750 hours each of B1s, B2pts v2 (Arm-based), and B2ats v2 (AMD-based) burstable VMs 12 months Virtual Machines—Windows Create Windows VMs in seconds to meet your workload and budget needs.
Compute 750 hours each of B1s, B2pts v2 (Arm-based), and B2ats v2 (AMD-based) burstable VMs 12 months Virtual Network Provision private networks and connect to on-premises datacenters.
Networking 50 virtual networks Always Visual Studio Code Boost productivity with a powerful, lightweight code editor for cloud development.
Developer tools Free Always VPN Gateway Establish secure, cross-premises connectivity.
Networking 750 hours VpnGw1 Gateway Type 12 months Web PubSub Build real-time, two-way communication into your web and mobile apps.
Web 20,000 messages per unit per day and 20 concurrent connections per unit (1 unit max) Always Before you build in Azure, build your skills for free Azure fundamentals Get started with AI on Azure Introduction to Azure virtual machines Host a web app with Azure App Service Build an AI web app using Python and Flask Previous Next Learn basic cloud concepts, get an overview of many Azure services, and deploy services for free with hands-on exercises.
Find out the kinds of solutions that AI makes possible and learn considerations for responsible AI practices.
Learn about the decisions you make before creating a virtual machine (VM). See ways to create and manage VMs.
Learn how to build and host a website. Use the programming language of your choice with no need to manage infrastructure.
Use Python, Flask, and Azure AI Services to build a web app that incorporates AI to translate text.
Ready? Here's a review of how it works Start free with $100 credit to use in 12 months. While you have your credit, get free services too.
After you use your credit, wait until the 12 months are over and sign up again if you’re still a student. You'll get $100 credit and free services—just like before.
If you don't want to wait, move to pay as you go. You'll get 55+ services free always. Only pay if you use more than the free monthly amounts.
Frequently asked questions What happens once I use all of my $100 free credit? We'll send you an email so you can decide if you want to move to pay as you go.
 If you do, you'll keep getting free monthly amounts of popular services. If you don't, your subscription and products will be disabled.
Can I apply any of my $100 credit towards Azure Marketplace offers? No, you can't use your credit for Azure Marketplace offers. However, many Azure Marketplace partners offer free trials of their solutions.
How many Azure for Students accounts am I allowed to sign up for? There is a limit of one account per person.
How do I get my free developer tools? After you create your Azure for Students account, download the tools from the Azure Education Hub.
More offers for students and educators More offers for students and educators Available to high school or secondary students* Develop web and mobile app scenarios.
Access and download professional developer software.
Sign up without a credit card.
Try Azure for Students Starter Read FAQ Azure free account Available to educators and faculty Get popular services free for 12 months and 55+ services free always.
Start with $200 credit to use in your first 30 days.
After your credit, pay for only what you use beyond free amounts of services.
Create your Azure free account Read FAQ *Age restrictions apply. See FAQ for eligibility and offer details.
Additional Navigation Get the Azure mobile app Explore Azure What is Azure? Get started Global infrastructure Datacenter regions Trust your cloud Customer enablement Customer stories Products and pricing Products Pricing Free Azure services Flexible purchase options Cloud economics Optimize your costs Solutions and support Solutions Resources for accelerating growth Solution architectures Support Azure demo and live Q&A Partners Azure Marketplace Find a partner Technology partners Resources Training and certifications Documentation Blog Developer resources Students Events and webinars Analyst reports, white papers, and e-books Videos Cloud computing What is cloud computing? What is cloud migration? What is a hybrid cloud? What is AI? What is IaaS? What is SaaS? What is PaaS? What is DevOps? Your Privacy Choices Diversity and Inclusion Accessibility Privacy & Cookies Data Protection Notice Trademarks Terms of use Privacy Data Management Manage cookies Contact us Feedback Sitemap © Microsoft 2023
