old id = 2000
The Top 6 Technologies for Improving Aircraft Fuel Efficiency - PreScouter - Custom Intelligence from a Global Network of Experts
2018
https://www.prescouter.com/2018/01/technologies-improving-aircraft-fuel-efficiency

Our Insights & Work How We Help Clients About Us Contact us Our Insights & Work How We Help Clients Industries Served CCUS Database About Us Our Story Press & News Careers Work On Our Projects I’m a PhD candidate or early career researcher Join our Analyst Network I have substantial applied expertise in a domain Join our Expert Network I’m interested in employment with PreScouter Start a career with PreScouter Article - January 2018 The Top 6 Technologies for Improving Aircraft Fuel Efficiency background Layer 1 background Layer 1 Share this article on LinkedIn background Layer 1 background Layer 1 Share this article on Twitter background Layer 1 background Layer 1 Share this article on Facebook Fuel efficiency refers to how many miles an airplane can travel on one gallon of fuel. This often gets included in discussions about global warming as well as long-term goals of containing average warming below the 2°C limit.
 Achievement of this limit would require deep cuts in emissions from all sectors. Over the last 20 years, available seats on aircraft have increased by more than 25% and demand is forecasted to continue to grow by around 5% yearly. The global fleet is expected to grow by 20,930 aircraft to reach about 40,000 in total in 2032.
It has been estimated that fuel demands from aviation will increase by between 1.9% and 2.6% each year until 2025. The projected growth in the aviation industry in the absence of additional mitigation could see its share of global emission increase to 22% by 2050.
 While the most effective measure of reducing aviation emissions is to decrease the growth, this would certainly not be ideal for industry players. What’s interesting here is that aircraft manufacturers and airlines are taking it upon themselves to reduce emissions by reducing fuel consumption, and the current concentration of this effort is increasing fuel efficiency.
The current aviation world is looking for new technologies, designs and materials that would sustainably increase fuel efficiency. Planes produce less CO 2 by improving engines, enhancing aerodynamics and using lighter materials.
Winglets: Winglets are devices mounted at the tip of the wings. Winglets are used to improve the aerodynamic efficiency of a wing by the flow around the wingtip to create additional thrust. They can improve airplane performance as much as 10% to 15%. An appropriately planned winglet at a slight point to the approaching wind and whirling stream around it causes “lift” on the winglet, which is coordinated internally along the wing and forward. Finally, by reducing drag, they can cut emissions by 6%.
Flexible Navigation System: By replacing the present airplane navigation plan with real time updates, aircraft can avoid unfavorable weather conditions such as storms, high winds, etc. and take advantage of favorable weather conditions. Studies show that 1.4 tons of CO 2 per flight is saved by using a flexible navigation system.
Continuous Climb and Descent Operations: Continuous climb and descent operations (CCO and CDO) are working strategies. CCO and CDO enable aircraft to follow an adaptable and ideal flight path that conveys major natural and financial advantages. These include: a decrease in fuel burn, lowered global gas emission, noise and fuel costs – all with no hostile impact on well-being.
3D Printing/Carbon fibers/Shape Memory Alloys (SMA): The aviation industry has begun using 3D printing technology ( additive manufacturing ), carbon fiber materials, and shape memory alloys (SMA) because they all can reduce aircraft weight while increasing customization and overall construction efficiency. According to this report , the global aerospace 3D printing market is forecasted to grow at 55.85% CAGR during the period 2016-2020.
Shape memory alloys work through heat: at the required temperature, the alloy metal transforms into different shapes. SMA are being explored as vibration dampers for launch vehicles and commercial jet engines. Reducing the overall weight of the airplane is always a top priority to increase fuel efficiency.
Double-Bubble D8: In 2008, as part of NASA’s N+3 program , a team of engineers from Aurora Flight Science, MIT, and Pratt & Whitney started working on a design concept for commercial aircraft. They named it “double-bubble” D8, and if the new machine works as anticipated, it could substantially decrease commercial aircraft noise, emission, and fuel burns associated with commercial travel.
Unlike other passenger aircraft, D8 designs do not have an engine beneath the wings. Instead, the designers opted to place the engines on top of the plane body near the tail. This alteration dramatically reduces the drag and improves fuel efficiency. If the D8 is designed and implemented as planned all over the world, it will have huge potential to reduce aviation related fuel consumption and will potentially reduce emissions up to 66% in 20 years. It will also lead to: 37% less fuel consumption than passenger jets.
50% reduction in community noise.
87% reduction in landing and take of cycle nitrogen oxide emission.
Blended Wing Body (BWB): In just ten years, a plane that flies using a radical hybrid wing shaped body could become a reality. A scale version of the ‘Blended Wing Body’ (BWB) aircraft is currently being tested at a NASA facility.
NASA says commercial designs will be available by 2035.
Some specs of the BWB aircraft include: 27% less fuel 15% weight reduction 20% higher lift to drag ratio 27% less thrust required Conclusion: With the progression of various electric vehicles (EVs) in market, road transportation is definitely approaching zero CO 2 emission. On another hand in the aviation sector, we are still discussing on how to increase the fuel efficiency to reduce CO 2 emissions at higher levels. In the near future, extensive research is required to be able to place the aviation industry into the zero-emission basket.
Featured image courtesy of NASA/MIT/Aurora Flight Sciences.
If you have any questions or would like to know if we can help your business with its innovation challenges, please contact us here or email us at solutions@prescouter.com.
About the author Never miss an insight Get insights delivered right to your inbox More of Our Insights & Work Case Study Decarbonization in IT Operations: A Business Unit Approach to Carbon Emission Reduction Sample Briefing Innovation by analogy: Why thinking outside your industry is key Article Towards carbon neutrality: The top 10 global carbon capture projects of 2023 Report The top 10 carbon capture projects in 2023 Most Popular Article Smart shoes: Innovations revolutionizing the future of footwear Article The Spiral Pump: Pumping Water Without Electricity Article The future of food: What will we be eating in 20 years? Article What are the disadvantages of cryptocurrencies? Article 4 smart road technologies shaping the future of transportation Join 16,000+ people who get our newsletter with PreScouter's cutting edge insights, weekly.
By signing up, you agree to our privacy policy.
6 E Monroe St, Suite 703 Chicago, IL 60603 Phone: +1 (847) 416-6066 Careers Join as a Researcher Join as an Industry Expert Privacy Policy User Agreement We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.
Read More Cookie Settings Accept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview Always Enabled Cookie Duration Description _ga 2 years The _ga cookie, installed by Google Analytics, calculates visitor, session and campaign data and also keeps track of site usage for the site's analytics report. The cookie stores information anonymously and assigns a randomly generated number to recognize unique visitors.
_gcl_au 3 months Provided by Google Tag Manager to experiment advertisement efficiency of websites using their services.
cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other.
cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance".
viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.
Functional Cookie Duration Description bcookie 2 years LinkedIn sets this cookie from LinkedIn share buttons and ad tags to recognize browser ID.
lidc 1 day LinkedIn sets the lidc cookie to facilitate data center selection.
Performance Analytics Cookie Duration Description _ga 2 years The _ga cookie, installed by Google Analytics, calculates visitor, session and campaign data and also keeps track of site usage for the site's analytics report. The cookie stores information anonymously and assigns a randomly generated number to recognize unique visitors.
_gcl_au 3 months Provided by Google Tag Manager to experiment advertisement efficiency of websites using their services.
_gid 1 day Installed by Google Analytics, _gid cookie stores information on how visitors use a website, while also creating an analytics report of the website's performance. Some of the data that are collected include the number of visitors, their source, and the pages they visit anonymously Advertisement Others Loading Comments...
