old id = 729
Indaba - Deep Learning Indaba 2017
2018
https://deeplearningindaba.com/2017

Indaba Code of Conduct Programme Background Topics Posters Speakers Sponsors Logistics Venue Travel & Accommodation Organizers Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission The Indaba Abantu Resources Reports Community Code of Conduct Videos and Slides Press and News Contact Us Other Editions 2018 2019 2020 2021 Indaba Code of Conduct Programme Background Topics Posters Speakers Sponsors Logistics Venue Travel & Accommodation Organizers Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission The Indaba Abantu Resources Reports Community Code of Conduct Videos and Slides Press and News Contact Us Other Editions 2018 2019 2020 2021 University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa 10 Sep - 15 Sep 2017 We have formed a partnership with several South African researchers, to organise the 1st Deep Learning Indaba from 10 to 15 September 2017 at the University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg.
Indaba The first Deep Learning Indaba will take place in September this year: a series of master classes on deep learning and machine learning for South African researchers and technologists. Deep learning, and the more general area of machine learning, is the technology that underlies the recent advances in data science and artificial intelligence that is set to transform the way the world works. There is at present a major global focus on machine learning involving billions of dollars in investment and revenue; artificial intelligence, and by implication machine learning, is set to change the working of the world.
Africans have a low participation in this area of science, although we have the skills and energy to take full advantage of these technologies. We have formed a partnership with several South African researchers, to organise the 1st Deep Learning Indaba from 10 to 15 September 2017 at the University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg. Given the increasing focus on machine learning, our aim is to stimulate the participation of South Africans, and Africans more generally, within the research and innovation landscape surrounding deep learning and machine learning.
We hope this will become an annual event for students, research staff, industry and entrepreneurs, supporting training and engagement with research at the forefront of the field. For this first event, we aim to support 50 students fully, and are eager to increase the number of fully sponsored attendees, depending on our funding.
​ Speakers We are proud to have these machine learning scientists to teach and share their experiences at the Indaba.
Posters Posters are an interactive and visual way of explaining your work, getting feedback on ideas, and for meeting new people.
Venue The Indaba will be held at the University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, within the Wits Science Stadium, Auditorium 2.
Sponsors Programme Contact us Deep Learning Indaba Strengthening African Machine Learning info@deeplearningindaba.com Indaba 2021 IndabaX Awards Mentorship Blog About Copyright © Deep Learning Indaba 2017 - 2023. All Rights Reserved.
