old id = 776
You and AI at the Manchester Science Festival | Royal Society
2018
https://royalsociety.org/science-events-and-lectures/2018/10/you-and-ai

Venue hire Contact us Fellow Search Show navigation Fellows Events Grants, Schemes & Awards Topics and Policy Journals Collections About us What's new Search the Fellows Directory Search for past Fellows About elections Biographical Memoirs Public events Scientific meetings Summer Science You and the planet Grants Awards Training, mentoring and partnership Book prizes Flexi-Grant® Global Talent visa All topics All projects All reports & publications Brexit & UK science Browse journals Authors Reviewers Librarians Open access Journal policies Metrics About Publishing Fellows' access Visitor information Digital resources Print shop Research Search the catalogues Mission History Programmes International work Funding & finances Governance Committees Jobs UKYA Blog News 2050challenge COVID-19 COP and climate change More Search Show navigation You currently have JavaScript disabled in your web browser, please enable JavaScript to view our website as intended.
Here are the instructions of how to enable JavaScript in your browser.
You and AI at the Manchester Science Festival Throughout 2018, we've brought you the world's leading thinkers on Artificial Intelligence.
28 October 2018, 17:30 - 19:00 Royal Exchange Theatre, Manchester £10 10/28/18 05:30 PM 10/28/18 07:00 PM United Kingdom (GMT) You and AI at the Manchester Science Festival Jim Al-Khalili poses your questions on AI to our expert panel.<br /> Royal Exchange Theatre, Manchester Copy link Copied to clipboard Facebook Twitter Jump to Overview Throughout 2018, we've brought you the world's leading thinkers on Artificial Intelligence.
Now we're calling on you to pose your questions to our panel of experts, to find out what challenges and opportunities you think AI will present us with in the next decade. Will AI affect our jobs? What risks might AI pose on society? Can we train AIs to make moral and ethical decisions? The panel The panel will be hosted by Professor Jim Al-Khalili OBE FRS , physicist, author and broadcaster.
Dame Wendy Hall DBE FRS FREng , Regius Professor of Computer Science at the University of Southampton and Executive Director of the Web Science Institute Professor Neil Lawrence, Chair in Neuro and Computer Science University of Sheffield and machine learning researcher at Amazon Dr Ewa Luger, Chancellor's Fellow in Digital Arts and Humanities studying AI Ethics Supported by DeepMind.
Related Events You and AI – the history, capabilities and frontiers of AI Monday 30 April 2018 Join Demis Hassabis, world-renowned British neuroscientist, artificial intelligence (AI) researcher and the co-founder and CEO of DeepMind, to explore groundbreaking research driving the application of AI to scientific discovery. This lecture will explore the history, capabilities and scientific frontiers of AI.
You and AI You and AI – The future of work Tuesday 11 September 2018 Join Professor Joseph E. Stiglitz, Nobel Laureate in economics and professor at Columbia University, to discuss how AI might affect work and working life, and how its benefits might be shared (or not) across society.
You and AI You and AI – Machine learning, bias and implications for inequality Tuesday 17 July 2018 Join Kate Crawford, Distinguished Research Professor at New York University, a Principal Researcher at Microsoft Research New York, and the co-founder and co-director the AI Now Institute, as she discusses the biases built into machine learning, and what that means for the social implications of AI.
You and AI You and AI – The emerging theory of algorithmic fairness: the challenges to making machines play fair Monday 11 June 2018 Join Cynthia Dwork, Gordon McKay Professor of Computer Science at the Harvard Paulson School of Engineering, Radcliffe Alumnae Professor at the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study, and Affiliated Faculty at Harvard Law School, as she explores the challenges to making machines play fair.
You and AI – AI Applications Thursday 03 May 2018 Join Marcus Du Sautoy, mathematician, author, and science communicator, as he speaks to leading artificial intelligence experts for a discussion and open forum on AI's applications.
Subscribe today to keep in touch Subscribe to our newsletters to be updated with all of our latest news on innovation, events and articles Copyright © 2023 The Royal Society. All rights reserved Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Fellows Search the Fellows Directory Search for past Fellows About elections Biographical Memoirs Events Public events Scientific meetings Summer Science You and the planet Grants, Schemes & Awards Grants Awards Training, mentoring and partnership Book prizes Flexi-Grant® Global Talent visa Topics and Policy All topics All projects All reports & publications Brexit & UK science Journals Browse journals Authors Reviewers Librarians Open access Journal policies Metrics About Publishing Fellows' access Collections Visitor information Digital resources Print shop Research Search the catalogues About us Mission History Programmes International work Funding & finances Governance Committees Jobs UKYA What's new Blog News 2050challenge COVID-19 COP and climate change
