old id = 1172
GAN 2.0: NVIDIA’s Hyperrealistic Face Generator | by Synced | SyncedReview | Medium
2018
https://medium.com/syncedreview/gan-2-0-nvidias-hyperrealistic-face-generator-e3439d33ebaf

Member-only story GAN 2.0: NVIDIA’s Hyperrealistic Face Generator Synced · Follow Published in SyncedReview · 4 min read · Dec 14, 2018 -- Share Look at the two pictures below. Can you tell which is a photograph and which was generated by AI? The truth is… wait for for it… both images are AI-generated fakes, products of American GPU producer NVIDIA’s new work with generative adversarial networks (GANs). The research was published today in the paper A Style-Based Generator Architecture for Generative Adversarial Networks, which proposes a new generator architecture that has achieved state-of-the-art performance in face generation.
Since GANs were introduced in 2014 by Google Researcher Ian Goodfellow, the tech has been widely adopted in image generation and transfer. After some early wiry failures, GANs have made huge breakthroughs and can now produce highly convincing fake images of animals, landscapes, human faces, etc. Researchers know what GANs can do, however a lack of transparency in their inner workings means GAN improvement is still achieved mainly through trial-and-error. This allows only limited control over the synthesized images.
The NVIDIA paper proposes an alternative generator architecture for GAN that draws insights from style transfer techniques.
 The system can learn and separate different aspects of an image unsupervised; and enables intuitive, scale-specific control of the synthesis.
Here’s how it works: Given an input facial image, the style-based generator can learn its distribution and apply its characteristics on a novel synthesized image. While previous GANs could not control what specific features they wanted to regenerate, the new generator can control the effect of a particular style — for example high-level facial attributes such as pose, identity, shape — without changing any other features. This enables better control of specific features such as eyes and hair styles. Below is a video demo of how GAN-generated images vary from one to another given different inputs and styles.
-- -- Follow Written by Synced 36K Followers · Editor for SyncedReview AI Technology & Industry Review — syncedreview.com | Newsletter: http://bit.ly/2IYL6Y2 | Share My Research http://bit.ly/2TrUPMI | Twitter: @Synced_Global Follow More from Synced and SyncedReview Synced in SyncedReview Standford U’s MAPTree: Redefining Decision Trees — Precision, Speed, and Efficiency Unleashed Decision trees have emerged as one of the cornerstones of modern machine learning, celebrated for their effectiveness, versatility, and… · 4 min read · Oct 3 -- 1 Synced in SyncedReview DeepMind Verifies ConvNets Can Match Vision Transformers at Scale · 3 min read · 5 days ago -- Synced in SyncedReview NNAISENSE’s New Class of Generative Model: Bayesian Flow Networks Break Barriers in Handing… In recent years, large-scale neural networks have ushered in a transformative era in generative modeling. These neural networks possess an… · 4 min read · Oct 4 -- Synced in SyncedReview Google Unveils the Enigma of Memorization and Generalization in Neural Models The success of modern, overparameterized neural models has sparked significant interest in exploring the intricate relationship between… · 4 min read · Oct 17 -- Recommended from Medium The Tenyks Blogger Amid the rise of LLMs, is Computer Vision dead? ICCV23 workshop “Quo Vadis, Computer Vision?” answers this query.
5 min read · Oct 24 -- Jim Clyde Monge in Generative AI ComicAI Lets You Create Awesome Comics Using Artificial Intelligence Now anyone can turn their imaginative stories into fully realized, visually captivating comics with just a few clicks.
· 5 min read · 6 days ago -- 8 Lists AI Regulation · ChatGPT prompts · ChatGPT · Generative AI Recommended Reading · Gabriel Mongaras in Better Programming Diffusion Models — DDPMs, DDIMs, and Classifier Free Guidance A guide to the evolution of diffusion models from DDPMs to Classifier Free guidance 28 min read · Mar 13 -- 6 Marco Peixeiro in Towards Data Science TimeGPT: The First Foundation Model for Time Series Forecasting Explore the first generative pre-trained forecasting model and apply it in a project with Python · 12 min read · Oct 24 -- 14 Omniinfer Stable Diffusion Accelerated Up to 211.2%: 1. Introduction 6 min read · Jul 21 -- 1 Dominik Andrzejczuk Physics Informed Machine Learning — The Next Generation of Artificial Intelligence & Solving… Ready to embrace the Quantum Computing revolution? Check out our latest article outlining how we at QDC.ai are democratizing Optimization.
7 min read · Jun 5 -- Help Status About Careers Blog Privacy Terms Text to speech Teams
