old id = 1763
Hebbian Learning - The Decision Lab
1949
https://thedecisionlab.com/reference-guide/neuroscience/hebbian-learning

Media Center Careers Subscribe Search brain bank Toggle Menu Case Studies How We Work Consulting Main Menu Consulting Data & Analytics Innovation & Design Strategy & Corporate Finance Operations People & Organization Marketing & Consumer Insights Risk & Compliance Industries Main Menu Industries Health & Wellbeing Education Consumer Behavior Technology & AI Climate & Sustainability Development & Social Protection Financial Inclusion Public Policy Impact Strategy & Governance Resources Main Menu Resources Perspectives Podcasts Biases Thinkers Reference Guide About / Our mission Careers Contact How We Work Consulting icon__angle-down--gray-color Consulting Data & Analytics Using machine learning and AI to deliver hyper-personalization Innovation & Design Designing people-centered next generation products and services Strategy & Corporate Finance Using evidence-based approachs to solve thorny strategic problems Operations Leveraging behavioral science to achieve operational excellence People & Organization Cultivating talent and fostering wellbeing through behavioral design Marketing & Consumer Insights Understanding consumer decision making and how to design for it Risk & Compliance Leaning on science to generate positive & scalable behaviors Behavioral Product Design Building world-class digital products with behavioral science Industries icon__angle-down--gray-color Industries Health & Wellbeing Fostering holistic wellness through science and design Technology & AI Unlocking product's potential through behavioral design Public Policy Generating low cost, high impact interventions in public policy Education Unlocking every classroom's potential using behavioral science Climate & Sustainability Bringing about a sustainable future through nudging Financial Inclusion Empowering people to take control of their finances Consumer Behavior Designing positive choice environments for consumers and brands Development & Social Protection Translating good intentions into scalable progress Impact Strategy & Governance Helping investors avoid bias and grow their impact Resources icon__angle-down--gray-color Resources Resources Perspectives Thought pieces on how behavioral science creates positive impact Podcasts Conversations with some of the world's most influential voices Biases A practical guide on how our minds understand the world around us Thinkers How some of the world's most influential thinkers got there Reference Guide Foundational concepts to help you understand decision science Trending Consumer Insights From Theory to Frameworks: Putting Behavioral Science to Work Podcast Management in the WFH World with Jean-Nicolas Reyt About Us icon__angle-down--gray-color About Us Our Mission We're on a mission of empowerment through evidence based choice Careers Join us on our mission to help the world make better decisions Team Diverse perspectives, brought together by a passion for impact Media Request a chat with one of our experts Columnists Thought leadership from the front lines of behavioral science Case Studies A look at some of our most impactful work Contact Reference Guide Hebbian Learning save to my brain bank share linkedin twitter email copy link Link copied! Hebbian Learning The Basic Idea The Basic Idea Key Terms History People Consequences Controversies Case Study Related TDL resources Sources The Basic Idea Key Terms History People Donald Hebb Karl Lashley Consequences Controversies Case Study Related TDL resources Sources The Basic Idea Theory, meet practice TDL is an applied research consultancy. In our work, we leverage the insights of diverse fields—from psychology and economics to machine learning and behavioral data science—to sculpt targeted solutions to nuanced problems.
The neuroscientific concept of Hebbian learning was introduced by Donald Hebb in his 1949 publication of The Organization of Behaviour.
 Also known as Hebb’s Rule or Cell Assembly Theory, Hebbian Learning attempts to connect the psychological and neurological underpinnings of learning.
The basis of the theory is when our brains learn something new, neurons are activated and connected with other neurons, forming a neural network. These connections start off weak, but each time the stimulus is repeated, the connections grow stronger and stronger, and the action becomes more intuitive.
A good example is the act of learning to drive. When you start out, everything you do is incredibly deliberate. You remind yourself to turn on your indicator, to check your blind spot, and so on. However, after years of experience, these processes become so automatic that you perform them without even thinking.
“ Neurons that fire together, wire together.
–Donald Hebb Theory, meet practice TDL is an applied research consultancy. In our work, we leverage the insights of diverse fields—from psychology and economics to machine learning and behavioral data science—to sculpt targeted solutions to nuanced problems.
Key Terms Neuron The basic building block of the brain, composed of a cell body, synapses and dendrites. They transmit information to other neurons through electric currents.
Synapse The contact point where one neuron meets another, allowing them to pass messages to each other.
Synaptic Efficacy How easily one neuron will activate another through a synapse, a connection that is strengthened with repetition.
Neural Network A group of connected neurons.
Mirror Neurons Neurons that not only fire when a person performs a certain action, but also fire when that same person observes someone else perform a similar action.
History Canadian-born Donald Hebb originally wanted to be a writer, receiving a BA from Dalhousie University. He was a teacher until he finished his Master’s degree in psychology from McGill University. Intriguingly, Hebb sketched the basis of his idea of neural networks in his MA thesis at Dalhousie, although he described the paper as ‘nonsense’ in later years.
1 Showing an interest in the physiology of psychology, Hebb went on to do a PhD with Karl Lashley at the University of Chicago, a renowned behaviorist of the time. It was likely this period of his career that sharpened his ability to combine behaviorist theories, particularly reinforcement learning, with physiology and neuroscience. Ivan Pavlov’s influence is particularly apparent in Hebb’s research, and many parallels have been drawn between Hebbian Learning and Pavlov’s conditioning theory.
2 When he finished his work with Lashley, Hebb returned to Montreal in 1937 to work with Wilder Penfield at the Montreal Neurological Institute. Influenced by Lashley and other psychologists who had observed how cognitive functions (particularly memory) were localized in specific regions of the brain, Hebb first outlined what would be labelled Hebbian Learning in his 1949 book, The Organization of Behaviour 3.
The idea that neurons are capable of forming networks that create and store memories, crucial to learning, was groundbreaking at the time, and remains hugely influential to this day.
Hebb’s combining of psychological and neuroscientific concepts earned him the title of the “father of neuropsychology.” Hebb is credited with connecting the abstract concept of ‘the mind’, to specific physiological and biological brain functions. Neuropsychology is studied by both psychologists and neuroscientists to this day, who consistently explore the connection between brain function and behavior.
People Donald Hebb Canadian psychologist and inventor of Hebbian Learning, Donald Hebb is considered the ‘father of neuropsychology.’ His groundbreaking experiments linked conventional psychology with advances in physiology and biology.
Karl Lashley American psychologist and behaviorist, Lashley is known for his many contributions to the study of learning and memory. Lashley was one of the first psychologists to perform experiments on the brains of rats; he studied the effects of lesions by removing certain areas of the rat’s cortex. Lashley made several groundbreaking discoveries on how the brain stores and processes information, which greatly influenced his PhD student, Donald Hebb.
Consequences Hebb’s theory of neural connections has had major implications for how neuroscientists and psychologists understand memory. One example is Long-Term Potentiation (LTP), a theory that emerged in the late 1960s showing that synapses are strengthened by recent patterns of activity, therefore confirming the findings of Hebbian Learning.
4 LTP is still a heavily researched topic today, with some exciting developments in the areas of dementia, Alzheimer’s disease and addiction treatment.
When it was first introduced, Hebbian Learning was seen as one part of the puzzle that surrounded memory function and storage. Around the 1950’s, however, researchers grew certain that neural networks were responsible for storing and retrieving associations, which opened up a whole new area of neuroscientific discovery. Combined with Lashley’s findings in his memory localization experiments, it was starting to become clearer that human beings possess different types of memories, and that each one is located in a different part of the brain.
These hypotheses were confirmed by the fascinating case of Henry Molson – who was, and still is, famously referred to as HM. HM suffered from epilepsy, and in 1953, his surgeon recommended that he have the medial temporal lobes of his brain removed. The surgery was successful in curing his epilepsy, but it appeared to severely damage his explicit, long-term memory recall (ie. his memory for factual information). HM could easily deploy his short-term memory, and had no trouble acquiring new motor skills or using what psychologists call his ‘implicit’ long-term memory (ie. ability to complete procedural tasks like riding a bike). HM wasn’t able to recall, however, that he had ridden a bike the day before since this was a “fact.” As a result of HM’s experience, medial temporal lobes are considered responsible for the formation of long-term explicit memories. Hebb’s theory was used to support this approach to the study of memory, since the idea that memories are formed and stored through neural connections was supported by the case of HM.
More recent studies have looked at how neural connections can be strengthened, and therefore how learning can be enhanced. Indeed, many advancements in neuroplasticity and associative memory research can trace links back to Hebbian Learning.
Hebbian Learning is also the basis for several advances in computer science, especially artificial intelligence.
Controversies In general, Hebbian Learning has been well-accepted across neuroscience and psychology.
A few criticisms do remain, especially when Hebbian learning is used as a basis for artificial intelligence or algorithm development. The primary issue is that incorrect or inappropriate neural connections can be made, and worse, strengthened, under Hebbian Learning. In some cases, this could lead to bad habits, poor learning, and potentially destructive behavior. Another issue is that there is no upper limit for how strong a connection can become, so from a computational perspective some type of control is required to prevent ‘over-learning.’ Finally, hundreds of experiments have shown that human learning is hugely influenced by feedback, from other people as well as the stimuli we encounter in our daily lives. Hebbian Learning does not fully account for feedback mediation, although this area has received greater attention recently.
5 Case Study Hebbian Learning & Artificial Intelligence The Hopfield Network, an artificial neural network introduced by John Hopfield in 1982, is based on rules stipulated under Hebbian Learning.
6 By creating an artificial neural network, Hopfield found that information can be stored and retrieved in similar ways to the human brain. Through repetition and continuous learning, artificial intelligence can strengthen certain connections that speed its processing of certain situations, helping it ‘learn’ faster. This has proven especially useful in the case of pattern recognition, and the development of AI algorithms.
Related TDL resources Algorithms for Simpler Decision-Making (1/2): The Case for Cognitive Prosthetics Jason Burton explores how algorithms can and should be used to optimize our lives, but with a warning label attached.
Why do we retain information better when we learn it over a long time period? The spacing effect occurs when information is repeatedly learned over a spaced-out period of time, resulting in an individual’s increased ability to remember the information.
Tempting the Creation of Habits Yasmine Kalkstein explores how we can create habits that become automatic behaviors. Much of this thinking stems from ideas that are linked to Hebbian Learning and reinforcement theory.
Sources Milner, P. (2003). A brief history of the Hebbian learning rule.
Canadian Psychology, 44 , 5-9.
Langille, J. J., & Brown, R. E. (2018). The synaptic theory of memory: a historical survey and reconciliation of recent opposition.
Frontiers in systems neuroscience , 12 , 52.
Hebb, D. O. (1949). The organization of behavior; a neuropsycholocigal theory.
A Wiley Book in Clinical Psychology , 62 , 78.
Purves, D., Augustine, G., Fitzpatrick, D., Katz, L., LaMantia, A., McNamara, J., & Williams, S. (2001). Neuroscience 2nd edition. sunderland (ma) sinauer associates.
Types of Eye Movements and Their Functions.
McClelland, J. L. (2006). How far can you go with Hebbian learning, and when does it lead you astray.
Processes of change in brain and cognitive development: Attention and performance xxi , 21 , 33-69.
Sathasivam, Saratha (2008). “Logic Learning in Hopfield Networks”.
arXiv : 0804.4075 [ cs.LO ].
Read Next Reference Guide The Butterfly Effect Reference Guide Aesthetic and Minimalist Design Reference Guide Groupthink Reference Guide Recognition rather than Recall Eager to learn about how behavioral science can help your organization? Contact us Get new behavioral science insights in your inbox every month.
We’re hiring! Join our team to create meaningful impact by applying behavioral science Collaborate With Us Insights Interventions Biases Our Mission Contact Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram © 2023 The Decision Lab. All Rights Reserved Terms and conditions Privacy Policy
