Joburg’s new hi-tech surveillance cameras: A threat to minorities that could see the law targeting thousands of innocents
2018
https://www.dailymaverick.co.za/article/2018-09-28-joburgs-new-hi-tech-surveillance-cameras-a-threat-to-minorities-that-could-see-the-law-targeting-thousands-of-innocents

Toggle navigation Toggle navigation Home Investigations Scorpio Our Burning Planet Amabhungane Declassified UK News & Analysis Business Maverick Maverick Citizen Sport Newsdeck Maverick News Features Opinionistas Maverick Life TGIFood Covid-19 Podcasts Webinars Zapiro Op-Eds Newsletters Newspaper E-Edition Subscribe Delivery queries Search GO DM is much better if you are signed in...
A code has been sent to....
 Please check your email and enter your one time pin below: // window.__mirage2 = {petok:"GlVq_HtVdhIzB2KdwPNnlisr2XwREUqDSC8YMoWxq8s-1800-0"}; // Open in Gmail It looks like we don’t have an account for this.
Would you like us to create an account for you? Login with a password Forgot Password? GET SUPPORT DM SHOP SUPPORT DM South Africa Eye on Crime (Part 2) Joburg’s new hi-tech surveillance cameras: A threat to minorities that could see the law targeting thousands of innocents Photo by Dorian Hurst on Unsplash Follow Following 28 Sep 2018 Follow Following 0 The City of Johannesburg has announced a major upgrade to their existing CCTV camera system – one that they say will use smart technology, such as facial recognition, to keep law and order. But a closer look at the tech strongly indicates that it could lead to false arrests, the targeting of innocent citizens, and unfair discrimination against minority groups.
The delegates are impressed. They’ve travelled to Shanghai, China to learn how to improve South Africa’s policing. As civilian members of the parliamentary portfolio committee on police, they are responsible for oversight of the South African Police Services. It’s October 2017, and they are on a study tour to exchange knowledge with their Chinese counterparts.
As part of the tour, they find themselves in the Shanghai Municipal Public Security Bureau’s 24-hour Command Centre, taking a look at the city’s high-tech CCTV camera system. Chief of the Command Centre, Mr Chen Zen, tells them that Shanghai’s 24 million citizens are being watched by 31,000 cameras, which serve to assist its 50,000 police officers. And, he says, since the system’s been installed, there’s been compelling evidence that surveillance has become a major deterrent of crime, making it easy to prevent, detect and prosecute criminal behaviour. This, in turn, has led to a significant decrease in violent crime, as well as a drop in reckless driving.
The SA delegates are in agreement: for a long time, they tell the Chinese, they’ve been urging SAPS to invest heavily in technology to fight crime.
But China is more than a few steps ahead of SA when it comes to camera surveillance. In the city of Shenzhen, about 1,500km to the southeast of Shanghai, traffic police are using facial recognition technology to identify jaywalkers.
 Facial recognition is a biometric measurement, much like a fingerprint, or an iris scan. It is possible to use software to compare a picture, taken by a CCTV camera of a person’s face, to mug shots of millions of people in a database. That should allow you to identify an individual if their data is on the database – theoretically.
The Shenzhen traffic department has installed a system that takes a photograph of the face of anyone who crosses a zebra crossing when the little man is not green. If you are in the city for more than 30 days, you must be registered with the traffic authorities. This means that it is compulsory to provide them with your identifying information and a photograph of your face. This is stored in a database.
If the jaywalker’s face matches a face in the database, an offence is registered against that person’s name. The system keeps count of an individual’s illegal crossings. To deter the behaviour, a blurred photo of the jaywalker, their surname and partial ID number, appear on a large LED screen at the intersection where the transgression occurred. Jaywalkers can then be fined.
The Shenzhen traffic authorities have also set up a website on which jaywalkers are thus named and shamed. The company that provides the technology to the police, Intellifusion, is also working towards setting up a system whereby the jaywalker will be notified of the offence via text or a mobile app.
Back in South Africa, and almost one year later, SAPS is yet to invest heavily in advanced CCTV camera systems as suggested by the parliamentary committee.
But the same cannot be said for South Africa’s major cities. The last 20 years has seen the establishment and growth of CCTV surveillance systems in various large cities and towns, including – but not limited to – Johannesburg, Pretoria, Cape Town, Nelson Mandela Bay, and eThekwini.
One of the factors behind the proliferation of CCTV systems is a booming local private security industry. Every year, the South African journal, Hi-Tech Security Solutions , publishes a 100+ page handbook on CCTV surveillance, detailing the latest products available to government and the private sector. Retailers and manufacturers from around the world vie for lucrative contracts. (The City of Joburg, for instance, paid R50-million to have their CCTV system installed in 2008. The City said earlier this year that it costs about R1-million to maintain the system monthly, although industry sources estimate it to cost at least R2-million to R3-million a month.) Private companies push several product features, apart from facial recognition. For instance, you can purchase a camera with thermal capabilities; it can sense heat, be it from a living thing or a warm car engine. This allows you to track movement and find objects even if it is completely dark. Other examples include movement prediction and body language analysis. The ultimate aim of all this is to prevent crime by predicting what might happen: if, for instance, the camera “recognises” a certain person moving past the same point more often than normal, displaying certain behaviours or body movements, the system alerts the operator, who in turn can then notify a police response team to attend to the scene even before a crime is committed.
One entity that has bought into this hi-tech approach is the City of Johannesburg. In July 2018, the City reportedly embarked on the first phase of a massive upgrade to the current CCTV system, which consists of 450 cameras in its crime-ridden CBD and close surrounds. The new cameras to be added to the network are said to be capable of facial recognition and motion prediction. The first phase would see 50 cameras installed, taking the City’s total tally of cameras to 500. The installation is to be outsourced to a third party by the Metropolitan Trading Company, which manages the project on behalf of the Johannesburg Metropolitan Police Department.
The new cameras will be able to complete a 360-degree rotation, and “cover a distance of up to a kilometre with consistency and clear visuals”, according to Sipho Phakathi, the MTC’s field service technician in charge of the City’s “intelligence Video Analytic Platform Project”.
BusinessTech reported in July 2018 that Phakathi said the “highly advanced” cameras would be set up in “high-crime hotspots” with high concentrations of traffic and people. Phakathi said facial recognition capabilities would allow for the camera to register when someone moves through the same spot one too many times. The camera will then “recognise” the pattern and alert the control room.
But the technology could lead to the targeting of thousands of innocent people, and false arrests.
To understand how this could happen, Daily Maverick spoke to three industry experts, all of whom wished to remain anonymous. Between the three of them, they have over four decades of experience in the business, and share an intimate knowledge of urban and state visual surveillance in South Africa.
Facial recognition, explains the first expert, is far from infallible, and will have to undergo considerable further development before it can be utilised to pick a face out of a big, bustling crowd with 100% accuracy.
“ We’ve tested extensively. At no point can we pick up a person, in the street, which is a known criminal. The database (of faces) needs to be built.” But it’s not just any database. Our source explains that much more than a mug shot is required; you would need to take photographs from various angles because you won’t necessarily be facing the camera when you are walking down the street, window shopping, or working your way through a busy crowd. The angle is not the only variable that the software will have to take into account; lighting is crucial. Simply put, if it’s too dark, the camera will either fail to register you, or mistake you for someone else. The result could be a false arrest. You could also end up on a database of suspicious persons.
Asked if he thought that Joburg’s facial recognition software would be accurate, our second industry insider responded: “I highly doubt it.” He explained that the camera would have to be at street level (this is the case in China), because once a person is five to eight meters away, the recording quality is too poor for effective recognition. From a distance of 500m to 600m the resolution simply becomes too low, and there is too much turbulence. Turbulence occurs because a camera is never completely still. The farther the focal point, the more any slight movement of the camera will affect the clarity of the picture.
A third source, who works for a major security company, told Daily Maverick : “It’s not that easy. You need a really good database (of faces). But we’ve never seen that it works.” The only time when facial recognition is relatively accurate, says the first source, is within a controlled environment. In a mine, for instance, when a worker needs to access a certain area, the person would face the camera squarely, within one metre, keeping still, and the lighting conditions would be suitable.
The technology could have very negative consequences for the public.
In Great Britain, facial recognition technology has led to false arrests and the targeting of thousands of innocent people. In May 2018, British lobby group BigBrotherWatch obtained information about the use of facial recognition from 35 UK police departments by making lawful requests for information. (In SA, such requests can be made through the Promotion of Access to Information Act, which allows South Africans to request information from a state body or private entity in order to exercise or protect constitutional rights.) According to the report, on average, automated facial recognition wrongly identified innocent people in 95% of cases. In the case of the South Wales Police, accuracy stood at 9%. In total, the South Wales police stored biometric photos of 2,451 people wrongly identified as persons-of-interest or criminals. In total, 31 people who had been incorrectly targeted as criminals had to prove their real identity to police.
Apart from lacking accuracy, facial recognition software is also less likely to recognise you if your skin is darker. In other words, it’s racially biased. In July this year, the American Civil Liberties Union warned that this could exacerbate racial discrimination. The organisation reported on a test they had conducted with Amazon’s facial recognition tool, Rekognition. At least one police department in the United States had started using Rekognition at the time of the ACLU report, according to the organisation.
The ACLU test used the software to compare the photographs of the faces of the United States Congress members to the faces of 25,000 photos of people arrested for a crime. The software mistakenly identified 28 Congress members as people who were arrested. In other words, the software could not recognise the difference between the 28 Congress members’ faces, and those of arrestees. Although the misidentified members included men and women of all ages and various racial backgrounds, the software was biased.
“ Nearly 40 percent of Rekognition’s false matches in our test were of people of colour, even though they make up only 20 percent of Congress,” the report stated.
One explanation for this bias is that facial recognition technology was primarily developed by and tested on white males in the US, the UK, and Germany. Following the ACLU report, Google’s director of cloud computing, Diane Greene, told the BBC that the technology has “inherent biases” and requires more “diversity” to be accurate.
But, if facial recognition was 100% accurate, if could become a very dangerous double-edged sword, with the side cutting down privacy and freedom being considerably sharper.
In 2017, Stanford University researchers succeeded in using facial detection technology to determine the sexual orientation of people using the pictures they posted on a dating site. From over 35,000 images, the technology was able to accurately distinguish between gay and straight men 81% the time. For women, it was 74%. The researchers warned that since companies and governments are increasingly using this type of technology to “detect people’s intimate traits, our findings expose a threat to the privacy and safety of gay men and women”.
In 2016, researchers from the McMaster University in Canada and the Shanghai Jiao Tong University in China said that their facial recognition system could distinguish between the faces of convicted criminals and innocent people, based on their facial features. Their methodology came under fire from their peers, but their research marks a step towards the old and highly discriminatory practice of physiognomy – studying someone’s physical and facial traits to determine their character traits.
And this point brings the conversation back to the new technology that Johannesburg is introducing. Because at the heart of it lies the concept of predictive policing – the use of data analysis to predict whether or not someone will commit a crime, and then taking precautions to prevent that crime.
Apart from facial recognition, pattern analysis of any sort of movement is aimed at such prediction. It is possible to use the CCTV system to detect when there is suspicious movement. For instance, people suddenly flocking to a street corner could indicate that a fight is breaking out there. The system can be programmed to alert the operator whenever a large crowd gathers in what is usually a walkway. The operator could then relay the message that police officers should be deployed to that spot to prevent any calamities.
Similarly, there is gait analytics – measuring the tempo and length of a person’s stride to predict what they may do. Programming software to identify someone who is running, or who is walking through the area at an unusual pace, could signal a suspicious person, and again one could deploy police following an alert from the system.
But again, in South Africa, this type of technology won’t work, according to our industry sources. South Africa’s traffic and pedestrian flow are simply too irregular and unpredictable. People could gather on a street corner at any moment for any reason, or similarly break out into a jog. Jaywalking is practically a national pastime. As for gait analytics, says the second industry source, it still has a while to go before it can be used in a public setting.
Which brings one to the human factor. To prevent the type of bias and inaccuracy that comes with hi-tech CCTV solutions, human operators require proper training.
Daily Maverick spoke to a behavioural specialist to get some insight. Essentially, security personnel can be trained to pick up on crime indicators. These are behavioural aspects and body language that could be signs that a crime has the potential to occur, or is in progress.
“ If we have a look at biases and indicators of behaviour – they shouldn’t coincide. You’re looking for specific behaviours. For instance, somebody who is about to commit a crime will usually look around differently from the way a normal person would.” The trick is to “benchmark” (for a specific area or within a specific context) the behaviours which are routine. This can then be objectively compared to behaviours that are out of place.
Up to now, Johannesburg has relied on human operators to conduct surveillance. However, according to two industry sources, Johannesburg has recently lost its experienced and trained operators. In 2017, the City did not renew its contract with Omega Risk Solutions – the company that ran Joburg’s operations since the CCTV system’s inception in 2008. A source who asked to remain anonymous because he has direct ties with the City, said that the operators who were relieved from their duties had extensive training, and most had seven to nine years of experience.
It’s unclear what to expect from Johannesburg’s new surveillance cameras. However, the consequences of employing a CCTV system using questionable technology, combined with an operations room that has lost decades of experience in one fell swoop, could prove severe.
Daily Maverick sent the City of Johannesburg detailed questions regarding the cost of the new systems, the problems inherent to facial recognition technology, the safeguards they would have in place to ensure footage and data was not leaked from their operations room, as well as an inquiry about complaints from the public that the current system is not functioning properly.
This was the response from Wayne Minnaar, Johannesburg Metro Police Senior Superintendent: “ The CCTV contributes significantly towards the safety in the Johannesburg CBD, therefore detail of its functioning is confidential and information may not be divulged for security reasons.” DM Photo by Dorian Hurst on Unsplash Heidi Swart is a journalist who has extensively investigated surveillance and intelligence services in South Africa. This story was commissioned by the Media Policy and Democracy Project, an initiative of the University of Johannesburg’s department of journalism, film and TV and Unisa’s department of communication science.
Share to Facebook Facebook Share to Twitter Share to Email App Email App Share to WhatsApp WhatsApp Applications of computer vision CCTV City of Johannesburg Closed-circuit television Crime prevention facial recognition Facial recognition system Law enforcement Learning National security Prevention Surveillance Video surveillance Top Reads This Hour Decline in Kruger rhino-poaching rates woefully drives shift to commercial bushmeat, reveals park ranger Presidential powers in National State Enterprises Bill flagged as a threat to SOE reforms Unwrapping the financial interests of ministers: A R50,000 portrait of Gwede Mantashe and a stack of books for Barbara Creecy Sony Music Entertainment boss implicated in another music event cancellation mired in corruption allegations ConCourt hits Home Affairs minister, DG with personal costs order over immigration law case TOP READS IN SECTION Alleged 28s boss Ralph Stanfield denied bail after court hears of ‘dishonesty’ and ‘a clear motive to kill’ ConCourt hits Home Affairs minister, DG with personal costs order over immigration law case MIA — President Ramaphosa and his promise to decisively act against the ANC and state corruption Three polls show ANC election support is falling off a cliff ‘Bogus doctor’ Matthew Lani arrested, due in dock after escape bid drama at Helen Joseph Hospital SPONSORED CONTENT Food & Trees for Africa and Tiger Brands unveil winners of EduPlant finals competition Sustainability projects high on agenda as ACSA aims for carbon neutrality by 2050 South Africa's mid-term budget crossroads Gran Turismo on track to ramp up the revs on Apple TV and DStv Box Office this October Rabie Property Group to launch Oasis Life in Century City Share to Facebook Facebook Share to Twitter Share to Email App Email App Share to WhatsApp WhatsApp Investigations Scorpio Our Burning Planet amaBhungane Maverick Citizen Declassified UK Contact Us Investigations Scorpio Our Burning Planet amaBhungane Maverick Citizen Declassified UK Contact Us News & Analysis Business Maverick Maverick Citizen Maverick Sports Newsdeck Contact Us News & Analysis Business Maverick Maverick Citizen Maverick Sports Newsdeck Contact Us Features Opinionista Maverick Life TGIFood COVID-19 Podcasts Zapiro Op-Eds Features Opinionista Maverick Life TGIFood COVID-19 Podcasts Zapiro Op-Eds Newsletters First Thing Business Maverick Judith’s Prudence SME Life & Books TGIFood Zapiro Sports Advertise with us Sales Deck Newsletters First Thing Business Maverick Judith’s Prudence SME Life & Books TGIFood Zapiro Sports Advertise with us Sales Deck Community About us Membership Events & Webinars Follow us on twitter Follow us on facebook Announcements Buy Books & Swag DM’s 10 Year Story Help Centre Contact us Community About us Membership Events & Webinars Announcements Buy Books & Swag DM’s 10 Year Story Help Centre Contact us DM168 E-Edition Subscribe Delivery queries DM168 E-Edition Subscribe Delivery queries Daily Maverick © All rights reserved We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.
Cookie Settings Accept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview Always Enabled Cookie Duration Description __cfduid 1 month The cookie is used by cdn services like CloudFlare to identify individual clients behind a shared IP address and apply security settings on a per-client basis. It does not correspond to any user ID in the web application and does not store any personally identifiable information.
_GRECAPTCHA 5 months 27 days This cookie is set by Google. In addition to certain standard Google cookies, reCAPTCHA sets a necessary cookie (_GRECAPTCHA) when executed for the purpose of providing its risk analysis.
cid 1 year This is an important cookie in making credit card transaction on the website. It allows the online transaction without storing the credit card information.This service is provided by Stripe.com.
connect.sid 1 month This cookie is used for authentication and for secure log-in. It registers the log-in information.
cookielawinfo-checkbox-advertisement 1 year Set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin, this cookie is used to record the user consent for the cookies in the "Advertisement" category .
cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other.
cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance".
CookieLawInfoConsent 1 year Records the default button state of the corresponding category & the status of CCPA. It works only in coordination with the primary cookie.
elementor never This cookie is used by the website's WordPress theme. It allows the website owner to implement or change the website's content in real-time.
JSESSIONID session Used by sites written in JSP. General purpose platform session cookies that are used to maintain users' state across page requests.
PHPSESSID session This cookie is native to PHP applications. The cookie is used to store and identify a users' unique session ID for the purpose of managing user session on the website. The cookie is a session cookies and is deleted when all the browser windows are closed.
viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.
Functional Cookie Duration Description __atuvc 1 year 1 month This cookie is set by Addthis to make sure you see the updated count if you share a page and return to it before our share count cache is updated.
__atuvs 30 minutes This cookie is set by Addthis to make sure you see the updated count if you share a page and return to it before our share count cache is updated.
__cf_bm 30 minutes This cookie is set by CloudFlare. The cookie is used to support Cloudflare Bot Management.
__pvi 1 day This cookie is used for the implementation of the news content from other sites.
bcookie 2 years This cookie is set by linkedIn. The purpose of the cookie is to enable LinkedIn functionalities on the page.
lidc 1 day This cookie is set by LinkedIn and used for routing.
Performance Cookie Duration Description d 3 months This cookie tracks anonymous information on how visitors use the website.
Analytics Cookie Duration Description __gads 1 year 24 days This cookie is set by Google and stored under the name dounleclick.com. This cookie is used to track how many times users see a particular advert which helps in measuring the success of the campaign and calculate the revenue generated by the campaign. These cookies can only be read from the domain that it is set on so it will not track any data while browsing through another sites.
_ga 2 years This cookie is installed by Google Analytics. The cookie is used to calculate visitor, session, campaign data and keep track of site usage for the site's analytics report. The cookies store information anonymously and assign a randomly generated number to identify unique visitors.
_ga_Y7XD5FHQVG 2 years This cookie is installed by Google Analytics.
_gat_UA-10686674-1 1 minute This is a pattern type cookie set by Google Analytics, where the pattern element on the name contains the unique identity number of the account or website it relates to. It appears to be a variation of the _gat cookie which is used to limit the amount of data recorded by Google on high traffic volume websites.
_gid 1 day This cookie is installed by Google Analytics. The cookie is used to store information of how visitors use a website and helps in creating an analytics report of how the website is doing. The data collected including the number visitors, the source where they have come from, and the pages visted in an anonymous form.
ajs_anonymous_id never This cookie is set by Segment.io to check the number of ew and returning visitors to the website.
ajs_user_id never The cookie is set by Segment.io and is used to analyze how you use the website ANON_ID 3 months This cookie is provided by Tribalfusion. The cookie is used to give a unique number to visitors, and collects data on user behaviour like what page have been visited. This cookie also helps to understand which sale has been generated by as a result of the advertisement served by third party.
jam_heavy_ga_session 5 years This cookie is installed by Google Analytics.
UserID1 3 months The cookie sets a unique anonymous ID for a website visitor. This ID is used to continue to identify users across different sessions and track their activities on the website. The data collected is used for analysis.
uvc 1 year 1 month The cookie is set by addthis.com to determine the usage of Addthis.com service.
Advertisement Cookie Duration Description __tbc 2 years This cookie is used for measuring the efficiency of advertisement by registering data on visitors from multiple website.
_cc_aud 8 months 26 days The cookie is set by crwdcntrl.net. The purpose of the cookie is to collect statistical information in an anonymous form about the visitors of the website. The data collected include number of visits, average time spent on the website, and the what pages have been loaded. These data are then used to segment audiences based on the geographical location, demographic, and user interest provide relevant content and for advertisers for targeted advertising.
_cc_cc session The cookie is set by crwdcntrl.net. The purpose of the cookie is to collect statistical information in an anonymous form about the visitors of the website. The data collected include number of visits, average time spent on the website, and the what pages have been loaded. These data are then used to segment audiences based on the geographical location, demographic, and user interest provide relevant content and for advertisers for targeted advertising.
_cc_dc 8 months 26 days The cookie is set by crwdcntrl.net. The purpose of the cookie is to collect statistical information in an anonymous form about the visitors of the website. The data collected include number of visits, average time spent on the website, and the what pages have been loaded. These data are then used to segment audiences based on the geographical location, demographic, and user interest provide relevant content and for advertisers for targeted advertising.
_cc_id 8 months 26 days The cookie is set by crwdcntrl.net. The purpose of the cookie is to collect statistical information in an anonymous form about the visitors of the website. The data collected include number of visits, average time spent on the website, and the what pages have been loaded. These data are then used to segment audiences based on the geographical location, demographic, and user interest provide relevant content and for advertisers for targeted advertising.
_kuid_ 5 months 27 days The cookie is set by Krux Digital under the domain krxd.net. The cookie stores a unique ID to identify a returning user for the purpose of targeted advertising.
_rxuuid 1 year The main purpose of this cookie is targeting, advertesing and effective marketing. This cookie is used to set a unique ID to the visitors, which allow third party advertisers to target the visitors with relevant advertisement up to 1 year.
ANON_ID_old 3 months This cookie helps to categorise the users interest and to create profiles in terms of resales of targeted marketing. This cookie is used to collect user information such as what pages have been viewed on the website for creating profiles.
bscookie 2 years This cookie is a browser ID cookie set by Linked share Buttons and ad tags.
CMID 1 year The cookie is set by CasaleMedia. The cookie is used to collect information about the usage behavior for targeted advertising.
CMPRO 3 months This cookie is set by Casalemedia and is used for targeted advertisement purposes.
CMPS 3 months This cookie is set by Casalemedia and is used for targeted advertisement purposes.
CMST 1 day The cookie is set by CasaleMedia. The cookie is used to collect information about the usage behavior for targeted advertising.
DSID 1 hour This cookie is setup by doubleclick.net. This cookie is used by Google to make advertising more engaging to users and are stored under doubleclick.net. It contains an encrypted unique ID.
google_push 5 minutes This cookie is set by the Bidswitch. This cookie is used to collect statistical data related to the user website visit such as the number of visits, average time spent on the website and what pages have been loaded. This collected information is used to sort out the users based on demographics and geographical locations inorder to serve them with relevant online advertising.
i 1 year The purpose of the cookie is not known yet.
id 3 months The main purpose of this cookie is targeting and advertising. It is used to create a profile of the user's interest and to show relevant ads on their site. This Cookie is set by DoubleClick which is owned by Google.
IDE 1 year 24 days Used by Google DoubleClick and stores information about how the user uses the website and any other advertisement before visiting the website. This is used to present users with ads that are relevant to them according to the user profile.
IDSYNC 1 year This cookie is used for advertising purposes.
KADUSERCOOKIE 3 months The cookie is set by pubmatic.com for identifying the visitors' website or device from which they visit PubMatic's partners' website.
KTPCACOOKIE 1 day This cookie is set by pubmatic.com for the purpose of checking if third-party cookies are enabled on the user's website.
ljt_reader 1 year This is a Lijit Advertising Platform cookie. The cookie is used for recognizing the browser or device when users return to their site or one of their partner's site.
loc 1 year 1 month This cookie is set by Addthis. This is a geolocation cookie to understand where the users sharing the information are located.
mc 1 year 1 month This cookie is associated with Quantserve to track anonymously how a user interact with the website.
mt_mop 1 month Stores information about how the user uses the website such as what pages have been loaded and any other advertisement before visiting the website for the purpose of targeted advertisements.
personalization_id 2 years This cookie is set by twitter.com. It is used integrate the sharing features of this social media. It also stores information about how the user uses the website for tracking and targeting.
suid_legacy 1 year This cookie is used to collect information on user preference and interactioin with the website campaign content. This cookie is used for promoting events and products by the webiste owners on CRM-campaign-platform.
TDCPM 1 year The cookie is set by CloudFlare service to store a unique ID to identify a returning users device which then is used for targeted advertising.
TDID 1 year The cookie is set by CloudFlare service to store a unique ID to identify a returning users device which then is used for targeted advertising.
test_cookie 15 minutes This cookie is set by doubleclick.net. The purpose of the cookie is to determine if the user's browser supports cookies.
tluid 3 months This cookie is set by the provider AdRoll.This cookie is used to identify the visitor and to serve them with relevant ads by collecting user behaviour from multiple websites.
tuuid 1 year This cookie is set by .bidswitch.net. The cookies stores a unique ID for the purpose of the determining what adverts the users have seen if you have visited any of the advertisers website. The information is used for determining when and how often users will see a certain banner.
tuuid_lu 1 year This cookie is set by .bidswitch.net. The cookies stores a unique ID for the purpose of the determining what adverts the users have seen if you have visited any of the advertisers website. The information is used for determining when and how often users will see a certain banner.
uid 5 months 27 days This cookie is used to measure the number and behavior of the visitors to the website anonymously. The data includes the number of visits, average duration of the visit on the website, pages visited, etc. for the purpose of better understanding user preferences for targeted advertisments.
uuid 1 year 27 days To optimize ad relevance by collecting visitor data from multiple websites such as what pages have been loaded.
VISITOR_INFO1_LIVE 5 months 27 days This cookie is set by Youtube. Used to track the information of the embedded YouTube videos on a website.
wfivefivec 1 year 1 month The domain of this cookie is owned by Dataxu. The main business activity of this cookie is targeting and advertising. This cookie tracks the advertisement report which helps us to improve the marketing activity.
xbc 2 years This cookie is used for optmizing the advertisement on the website more relevant by analysing the user behaviour and interaction with the website.
YSC session This cookies is set by Youtube and is used to track the views of embedded videos.
Others Cookie Duration Description __browsiSessionID 30 minutes No description available.
__browsiUID 1 year No description available.
__cflb 23 hours This cookie is used by Cloudflare for load balancing.
__gpi 1 year 24 days No description ajs_group_id never This cookie is set by Segment.io. The purpose of the cookie is currently not identified.
blkbs 6 days 23 hours No description charitable_session 1 day No description available.
cookietest session No description debug never No description available.
gCStest 7 years 1 month 26 days 16 hours No description muc_ads 2 years No description revengine_browser_id session No description revengine-browser-token session RevEngine Data Tool.
rl_user_id never No description available.
tf_respondent_cc 6 months No description UserMatchHistory 1 month Linkedin - Used to track visitors on multiple websites, in order to present relevant advertisement based on the visitor's preferences.
vic_loc_error 10 minutes No description vicinity_id 1 year 10 months 24 days 11 hours Vicinity Advertising.
Please peer review 3 community comments before your comment can be posted " + _localizedStrings.redirect_overlay_title + " " + _localizedStrings.redirect_overlay_text + " This article is free to read.
Sign up for free or sign in to continue reading.
Unlike our competitors, we don’t force you to pay to read the news but we do need your email address to make your experience better.
Nearly there! Create a password to finish signing up with us: You want to receive First Thing, our flagship newsletter. Opt out at any time.
Please enter your password or get a sign in link if you’ve forgotten A code has been sent to....
 Please check your email and enter your one-time pin below: Didn't get the code? Resend email Use your password instead? Enter password Open in Gmail Open Sesame! Thanks for signing up.
A Week's Worth of Coffee to Keep Daily Maverick Alive Think of us in terms of your daily cappuccino from your favourite coffee shop. It costs around R35.
That’s R1,050 per month on frothy milk.
Don’t get us wrong, we’re almost exclusively fuelled by coffee, but we can't survive on hope and our own determination. Our country is going to be considerably worse off if we don’t have a strong, sustainable news media. If you’re rejigging your budgets, and it comes to choosing between frothy milk and Daily Maverick, we hope you might reconsider that cappuccino.
We need your help. And we’re not ashamed to ask for it.
Already an Insider? Click here to login A South African Hero: You There’s a 99.8% chance that this isn’t for you.
Only 0.2% of our readers have responded to this call for action.
Those 0.2% of our readers are our hidden heroes, who are fuelling our work and impacting the lives of every South African in doing so. They’re the people who contribute to keep Daily Maverick free for all , including you.
The equation is quite simple: the more members we have, the more reporting and investigations we can do, and the greater the impact on the country.
Be part of that 0.2%.
Be a Maverick. Be a Maverick Insider.
Support Daily Maverick→ Make sense of the climate crisis Hear weekly from the biggest climate reporting division in Africa, reporting stories that concern you, your future and your environment.
Direct to your inbox, free of charge.
Become an Insider There are many great benefits to being a Maverick Insider. Removing advertising from your browsing experience is one of them - we don't just block ads, we redesign our pages to look smarter and load faster.
Click here to see other benefits and to sign-up to our reader community supporting quality, independent journalism.
