You and AI – The future of work | Royal Society
2018
https://royalsociety.org/science-events-and-lectures/2018/09/you-and-ai

Venue hire Contact us Fellow Search Show navigation Fellows Events Grants, Schemes & Awards Topics and Policy Journals Collections About us What's new Search the Fellows Directory Search for past Fellows About elections Biographical Memoirs Public events Scientific meetings Summer Science You and the planet Grants Awards Training, mentoring and partnership Book prizes Flexi-Grant® Global Talent visa All topics All projects All reports & publications Brexit & UK science Browse journals Authors Reviewers Librarians Open access Journal policies Metrics About Publishing Fellows' access Visitor information Digital resources Print shop Research Search the catalogues Mission History Programmes International work Funding & finances Governance Committees Jobs UKYA Blog News 2050challenge COVID-19 COP and climate change More Search Show navigation You currently have JavaScript disabled in your web browser, please enable JavaScript to view our website as intended.
Here are the instructions of how to enable JavaScript in your browser.
You and AI You and AI – The future of work Join Professor Joseph E. Stiglitz, Nobel Laureate in economics and professor at Columbia University, to discuss how AI might affect work and working life, and how its benefits might be shared (or not) across society.
11 September 2018, 18:30 - 19:30 Free 09/11/18 06:30 PM 09/11/18 07:30 PM United Kingdom (GMT) You and AI – The future of work <p>Join Professor Joseph Stiglitz to discuss how AI might affect work and working life, and how its benefits might be shared across society.</p> The Royal Society, London, SW1Y 5AG Copy link Copied to clipboard Facebook Twitter Jump to Event Highlights Watch the Video Join Professor Joseph E. Stiglitz, Nobel laureate in economics and professor at Columbia University, to discuss how AI might affect work and working life, and how its benefits might be shared across society.
Overview Join Professor Joseph E. Stiglitz, Nobel Laureate in economics and professor at Columbia University, to discuss how AI might affect work and working life, and how its benefits might be shared (or not) across society.
AI already supports many of the products and services we interact with on a daily basis, and technological advances are creating systems that can perform increasingly sophisticated tasks. Alongside these advances, come questions about the impact of AI on work and working life, and its implications for society. Will AI systems replace people in the workplace? How might these technologies affect how, where, and why we work? And how might this influence social inequalities? In the fifth discussion of the You and AI series, Professor Joseph E. Stiglitz will explore the implications of AI for your work and inequality, considering how we can share the benefits of these technologies across society. Professor Diane Coyle CBE, celebrated economist and professor of Public Policy at the University of Cambridge, will share her thoughts before joining Professor Stiglitz for what promises to be a lively question and answer discussion.
This is an unparalleled opportunity for you to contribute to the conversation about this technology and the way it is becoming ingrained in every part of our lives.
Please note: this is event is offered on a first-come, first-served basis. We recommend arriving early as we anticipate it to be very popular and can not guarantee admission.
The You and AI series will culminate in two finale events in late 2018 in Manchester and London where Professor Jim Al-Khalili OBE FRS and Professor Brian Cox OBE FRS respectively will lead a public debate about these topics and issues. The events will be held on the 28 October 2018 (Manchester) and 11 December 2018 (London) and tickets will go on sale shortly. More details to follow.
For all enquiries, please contact the Events Team.
Attending the event Free to attend No registration required Doors will open at 18:00 and seats will be allocated on a first-come, first-served basis This event may be popular and entry cannot be guaranteed Live subtitles will be available British Sign Language interpretation will be available on request. Please let the Events Team know if you plan to attend at least two weeks before the event Travel and accessibility information The Royal Society’s aim is to make its events accessible to as many people as possible. This is why our events are free and offered on a first-come, first-served basis.
Related Events You and AI at the Manchester Science Festival Sunday 28 October 2018 Throughout 2018, we've brought you the world's leading thinkers on Artificial Intelligence.
You and AI – the history, capabilities and frontiers of AI Monday 30 April 2018 Join Demis Hassabis, world-renowned British neuroscientist, artificial intelligence (AI) researcher and the co-founder and CEO of DeepMind, to explore groundbreaking research driving the application of AI to scientific discovery. This lecture will explore the history, capabilities and scientific frontiers of AI.
You and AI – AI Applications Thursday 03 May 2018 Join Marcus Du Sautoy, mathematician, author, and science communicator, as he speaks to leading artificial intelligence experts for a discussion and open forum on AI's applications.
You and AI You and AI – The emerging theory of algorithmic fairness: the challenges to making machines play fair Monday 11 June 2018 Join Cynthia Dwork, Gordon McKay Professor of Computer Science at the Harvard Paulson School of Engineering, Radcliffe Alumnae Professor at the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study, and Affiliated Faculty at Harvard Law School, as she explores the challenges to making machines play fair.
You and AI You and AI – Machine learning, bias and implications for inequality Tuesday 17 July 2018 Join Kate Crawford, Distinguished Research Professor at New York University, a Principal Researcher at Microsoft Research New York, and the co-founder and co-director the AI Now Institute, as she discusses the biases built into machine learning, and what that means for the social implications of AI.
You and AI at the Manchester Science Festival Sunday 28 October 2018 Throughout 2018, we've brought you the world's leading thinkers on Artificial Intelligence.
Subscribe today to keep in touch Subscribe to our newsletters to be updated with all of our latest news on innovation, events and articles Copyright © 2023 The Royal Society. All rights reserved Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Fellows Search the Fellows Directory Search for past Fellows About elections Biographical Memoirs Events Public events Scientific meetings Summer Science You and the planet Grants, Schemes & Awards Grants Awards Training, mentoring and partnership Book prizes Flexi-Grant® Global Talent visa Topics and Policy All topics All projects All reports & publications Brexit & UK science Journals Browse journals Authors Reviewers Librarians Open access Journal policies Metrics About Publishing Fellows' access Collections Visitor information Digital resources Print shop Research Search the catalogues About us Mission History Programmes International work Funding & finances Governance Committees Jobs UKYA What's new Blog News 2050challenge COVID-19 COP and climate change
