old id = 1215
Research that changes lives
unknown
https://giving.mcgill.ca/make-impact/explore-big-idea/research-changes-lives

Make an impact Make an impact Discover McGill’s vision for our third century, and read about the many ways philanthropy is helping our students, researchers and professors make the world a better place.
Explore by Big Idea Opportunities that open doors Research that changes lives Innovation that drives progress Shaping future-ready students Sustainability and the New Vic Best in the West The McGill Students and Scholars at Risk Fund Faculties, Schools and Units Agricultural & Environmental Sciences Arts Continuing Studies Dental Medicine and Oral Health Sciences Education Engineering Law Library Desautels Faculty of Management Medicine and Health Sciences Schulich School of Music Science Athletics & Recreation The Neuro Faculties, Schools and Units Ways to give Ways to give Make your mark on our third century by supporting students, giving to your faculty or funding an innovative project.
Give today Online By phone By mail Wire transfers Securities McGill staff payroll deductions Gift matching options Give tomorrow Leave a bequest Life insurance Retirement plan assets Charitable gift annuities Charitable remainder trusts More ways to give International giving Corporations Foundations Gifts in kind Endowed giving McGill Crowdfunding McGill24 McGill Student Emergency Support Fund The McGill Emergency COVID-19 Research Fund Get involved Get involved Be part of McGill's global community. Read our award-winning magazine, The McGill News, attend exciting events featuring top researchers, take advantage of networking and mentorship opportunities and more.
[] Attend an event Volunteer Third Century Celebrations Made by McGill Stories Submit your Made by McGill Story Webcasts About About Meet the people behind Made by McGill: the Campaign for Our Third Century [] Campaign leadership The McGill Fund Legacy Societies Search Home Make an impact Research that changes lives Research that changes lives Every day, McGill researchers are pushing the boundaries of knowledge and collaborating at the intersection of disciplines where solutions to global challenges will emerge. Accelerating those solutions, and moving them swiftly from idea to practical impact, is where McGill will make some of its most significant contributions.
Make a gift Choose an amount Revolutionizing neuroscience – transforming lives For almost a century, McGill has been a global innovator in brain science, led by the internationally renowned Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital (The Neuro).
Now, building on that strength, McGill and The Neuro are leveraging a unique Open Science approach, working side by side with patients contributing to advancing scientific knowledge, to accelerate the discovery of new treatments and cures for neurological diseases and disorders. We are developing the tools and infrastructure needed to support data and material sharing; amplifying the impact of our research by sharing it globally; and encouraging the scientific community to embrace this new way of doing research.
Environmental sustainability McGill takes an interdisciplinary approach to developing environmental technologies, practices and policies that support long-term human and ecosystem health. This vision unites the natural sciences and engineering with arts and humanities, political science, economics and public policy, ensuring that all aspects of how we create a healthy and sustainable world are addressed.
Aligned with this ambitious vision is the opportunity to redevelop the former site of the Royal Victoria Hospital into a cutting-edge, interdisciplinary research and learning neighbourhood dedicated to Sustainability and Public Policy.
This unique international knowledge hub will embody McGill’s third century vision, while inspiring public and private partners to invest in and promote McGill-driven knowledge, raising the profile of Montreal and Quebec as a global centre of purposeful inquiry and solutions.
Leading in AI and data science Home to world-renowned computer scientists working at the forefront of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning, McGill is contributing to the core technologies used by Google, Facebook, IBM and countless industry leaders. At the same time, McGill is leveraging its wide-ranging strengths in law, the humanities and social sciences, public policy and management to help ensure these technologies serve individuals and societies for the good, while creating new data-driven applications from aviation, to health care, to city planning and transportation.
Our goal: to unite all of these strengths through a unique, interconnected network of centres, each dedicated to advancing AI, data science and their applications in a specific field. The result: a powerful engine to create technologies, policies and applications that improve lives, while mitigating the risks that threaten our privacy, safety and prosperity.
Infection and immunity The McGill Interdisciplinary Initiative in Infection and Immunity (MI4) brings together over 250 specialists from medicine, science, engineering, social science and public policy to find new ways to fight deadly infections, and use our own immune systems as a powerful weapon against disease.
Research that breaks boundaries on all fronts In addition to these impact-oriented ‘grand challenges’, McGill researchers are undertaking cutting-edge research within and across disciplines, pushing intellectual boundaries and seeking answers to fundamental questions about our identities, our societies, and our place on the planet and in the universe. From the smallest molecule to the furthest galaxy, support for McGill research allows us to have a better understanding of our world and make it better, one challenge at a time.
In order to bring this transformative research to life, we must be able to recruit and retain the finest research talent in the world. This will require us to support a strategically expanded professoriate across disciplines, including chairs, visiting professorships, and flexible appointments.
Explore by story {{ article.title }} Healthier ecosystems.
Made by researchers like Andrew Gonzalez.
Explore by big idea Opportunities that open doors Research that changes lives Innovation that drives progress Education that shapes future-ready students Explore by Faculty, School or Unit Make a gift Choose an amount Thanks for your subscription, we’ll keep you posted! Stay in the know Get regular updates: news on our latest discoveries, interviews with our experts and inspirational stories about our students delivered to your inbox.
✕ {{ notification.message }} Contact Contact Us 514.398.5000 1.800.567.5175 University Advancement 1430 Peel Street Montreal, QC, H3A 3T3 Get Directions Giving to McGill Make an Impact Ways To Give About Explore Opportunities Research Innovation Future-ready Faculties, Schools and Units More from McGill Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn McGill Alumni Get involved
