old id = 322
DaVinci Resolve 18 | Blackmagic Design
unknown
https://www.blackmagicdesign.com/products/davinciresolve

Overview Log In Overview What's New Edit Cut Color Fusion Fairlight Collaboration Keyboard Panels Consoles Studio Training Tech Specs Argentina Australia Austria Brazil Canada China Denmark Finland France Germany Hong Kong SAR, China India Italy Japan Korea Mexico Netherlands New Zealand Norway Poland Portugal Singapore South Africa Spain Sweden Chinese Taipei Turkey UAE Ukraine United Kingdom United States Argentina Australia Austria Brazil Canada China Denmark Finland France Germany Hong Kong SAR, China India Italy Japan Korea Mexico Netherlands New Zealand Norway Poland Portugal Singapore South Africa Spain Sweden Chinese Taipei Turkey UAE Ukraine United Kingdom United States DaVinci Resolve 18 DaVinci Resolve 18 Professional Editing, Color, Effects and Audio Post! Davinci Resolve Free Download Now Davinci Resolve Studio Buy Online Now $295 DaVinci Resolve is the world’s only solution that combines editing, color correction, visual effects, motion graphics and audio post production all in one software tool! Its elegant, modern interface is fast to learn and easy for new users, yet powerful for professionals. DaVinci Resolve lets you work faster and at a higher quality because you don’t have to learn multiple apps or switch software for different tasks. That means you can work with camera original quality images throughout the entire process. It’s like having your own post production studio in a single app! Best of all, by learning DaVinci Resolve, you’re learning how to use the exact same tools used by Hollywood professionals! Davinci Resolve Free Download Now Davinci Resolve Studio Buy Online Now $295 Hollywood's #1 Post Solution High end professionals working on feature films and television shows use DaVinci Resolve more than any other solution! That’s because it’s known for incredible quality and creative tools that are light years beyond the competition. You get DaVinci’s Emmy™ award winning image technology with 32‑bit float processing, patented YRGB color science and a massive wide gamut color space for the latest HDR workflows. You also get the legendary quality of Fairlight audio processing for the best sound in the industry! With DaVinci Resolve, you get the same tools professional colorists, editors, VFX artists and sound engineers use every day to finish your favorite films and streaming television shows! What’s New in DaVinci Resolve 18.5 DaVinci Resolve 18.5 is a massive update with new AI tools and over 150 new features which include major additions to the cut page editing toolset, new Resolve FX, enhanced Fusion tools including USD support and powerful new Fairlight audio mix automation. The Cut page features 3 new menus including tools to toggle ripple editing, resync audio and more! You can quickly generate captions for timelines with auto speech to text, or search on key words for faster editing. Resolve FX relight lets colorists add virtual lighting to a scene and VFX collaboration is now faster with support for Universal Scene Descriptor files. Plus you can group tracks in Fairlight for faster mix automation and editing.
Learn More Multi User Collaboration DaVinci Resolve is the only solution that lets you grow and build your own multi user post production studio! The newly redesigned project libraries are built for real time local and remote collaboration. While the new Blackmagic Cloud lets you host and access your projects from anywhere in the world. Now you can collaborate with editors, colorists, visual effects artists, and sound engineers all working together at the same time. Best of all, you no longer have to import and export files, translate projects, lose work, or conform and manage changes. DaVinci Resolve is the only application in the world that lets everyone work together in parallel on the same project and at the same time! Learn More Update Notifications Clips and Bin Locking Multi User Timelines Built-in Chat Blackmagic Cloud 1 / 5 / All In One Solution for Post Production DaVinci Resolve is divided into "pages", each of which gives you a dedicated workspace and tools for a specific task. Editing is done on the cut and edit pages, visual effects and motion graphics on the Fusion page, color correction on the color page, audio on the Fairlight page, and media organization and output on the media and deliver pages. All it takes is a single click to switch between tasks! Media Cut Edit Fusion Color Fairlight Deliver Edit The world's fastest and most advanced professional NLE.
The edit page is the world’s most advanced professional non-linear editor. The familiar track layout, dual monitor design and traditional workflow makes it easy for new users to learn while still being powerful enough for professional editors. It’s perfect for larger projects such as feature films, television shows, streaming, commercials, documentaries and more. The edit page features drag and drop editing, context sensitive automatic trimming tools, fully customizable keyboard shortcuts so you can work faster, and a library full of hundreds of titles, transitions, and effects that you can add and animate. You also get complete media management, organization and timeline management tools.
Learn More Responsive Project Libraries Professional Trimming Functions Robust Proxy Editing Customisable Effects and Titles Subtitles and Closed Captioning Cut Designed for editors to turn around work fast! The cut page is perfect for projects with tight deadlines that you have to turn around quickly. It’s also great for documentary work. The cut page has a streamlined interface that’s fast to learn and designed for speed. Features such as source tape, dual timelines, fast review, and smart editing tools help you work faster than ever. The sync bin and source overwrite tools are the fastest way to edit multicam programs, making it easy to create perfectly synchronized cut aways! Everything on the cut page is action based so every click does something. That means you’ll spend more time editing and less time hunting for commands. Plus, the scalable interface is great for portable editing! Learn More Source Tape Source Overwrite Audio Trim View Smart Reframe Multicam Editing Color Hollywood’s favorite color corrector! The DaVinci Resolve color page is Hollywood’s most advanced color corrector and has been used to color and finish more high end feature films and television shows than any other system! It’s also approachable with features designed to make it easier for new users to get great results while they continue to learn the advanced tools. For example, new primary control sliders will be familiar to anyone who’s used image editing software, making it easy to adjust contrast, temperature, midtone detail, saturation and more. The color page has an incredible range of primary and secondary color grading features including PowerWindows™, qualifiers, tracking, advanced HDR grading tools and more! Learn More HDR Color Wheels Custom Curves Node Editor Power Windows Resolve FX Fusion Cinematic quality visual effects and motion graphics! The Fusion page lets you create cinematic visual effects and broadcast quality motion graphics right inside of DaVinci Resolve! Fusion features a node based workflow that makes it faster and easier to create sophisticated effects and animations than you could ever create using a layer based approach. You get hundreds of 2D and 3D tools for visual effects and motion graphics, along with advanced animation curve and keyframe editors that allow you to create incredibly organic and realistic animations. Fusion has everything from point, planar and 3D camera tracking to rotoscope and keying tools for creating photorealistic composites, stunning animated titles, 3D particle systems and more! Learn More Working with Nodes True 3D Workspace Animate 2D and 3D Titles Deep Pixel Compositing Virtual Set Extensions Fairlight Professional tools designed for audio post production.
The Fairlight page features hundreds of pro tools for audio post production. It’s like having a professional digital audio workstation (DAW) built into your editing and color system! Familiar keyboard based editing tools let you work extremely fast, especially if you’re moving to Fairlight from another system. The incredible new Fairlight Audio Core lets you work with up to 2,000 tracks at a time with realtime effects, EQ, and dynamics processing! You get sample accurate editing tools, advanced ADR and Foley, and Fairlight FX such as reverb, de-esser, hum remover and more. You can mix and master stereo, 5.1, 7.1, and even the latest immersive 3D audio formats, all within the same project! Learn More Professional ADR toolset Mix 2,000 Tracks in Realtime Elastic Wave Retiming Fairlight FX and Plugins Free Sound Library Media and Delivery Incredibly wide format support, finishing and mastering! The media and delivery pages have everything you need to import, manage and deliver final projects. The media page is a dedicated full screen workspace that lets you prepare footage, sync clips, organize media into bins and add metadata before you start editing. Use the clone palette to ensure every bit of data in the camera media cards is copied during backup. During edit or grading, stream video outputs to a remote client monitor via DeckLink. You can output and upload files to YouTube, Vimeo and Twitter from anywhere page using the quick export tool. The deliver page gives you total control over all encoding options and formats, along with a render queue for exporting multiple jobs! Learn More Automatic A/V Syncing Smart Metadata Management Render Options Remote Rendering Workflow Plugins Resolve FX DaVinci Resolve Studio 18 features over 100 GPU and CPU accelerated Resolve FX such as blurs, light effects, noise, image restoration, beauty enhancement, stylize and more! Version 18 adds even more plugins for depth map generation, surface tracking, fast noise, and despilling. There’s even improvements to the beauty effect, edge detection and lens reflections. Automatically generate a 3D matte of a scene with the depth map FX to grade or add effects to a background or foreground. Track the movement of textured surfaces with the surface tracker effect to apply images to t-shirts, flags and faces! All Resolve FX effects can be applied and animated in the cut, edit, Fusion and color pages! DaVinci Neural Engine The DaVinci Neural Engine uses state of the art deep neural networks and machine learning, along with artificial intelligence to power features such as facial recognition, object detection, smart reframing, speed warp retiming, super scale up‑scaling, auto color and color matching and more! The DaVinci Neural Engine is entirely cross platform, using the latest GPU innovations for AI and deep learning to provide unparalleled performance and quality. The DaVinci Neural Engine provides simple tools to solve complex, repetitive and time consuming problems. For example, it enables facial recognition to sort and organize clips into bins based on people in the shot, to reframe shots and more.
Works with 3rd Party Plug‑Ins and Storage With all the different workflows and systems available, you need a post production solution that’s compatible and open enough to handle anything! DaVinci Resolve can be used with any type of storage ranging from direct attached hard drives to NAS and SAN systems. You can extend DaVinci Resolve with third party Open FX and audio plugins, or add third party title and motion graphics templates. New workflow integration and encoding APIs let developers integrate workflow and asset management systems with DaVinci Resolve.
Plus, it works with all major file formats and post production software, making it easy to move files between DaVinci Resolve, Final Cut Pro, Media Composer, and Premiere Pro.
DaVinci Resolve Editor Keyboards DaVinci Resolve keyboards have been designed as an alternative way to edit that’s much faster than a mouse because you can use both hands at the same time! The DaVinci Speed Editor features dedicated edit function keys on the left and a high quality search dial with electronic clutch and transport controls on the right. You can use the search dial and source tape buttons with your right hand to locate shots, while simultaneously marking in and out points, performing edits and live trimming with your left hand. All without touching the mouse! The DaVinci Resolve Editor Keyboard adds a QWERTY keyboard with color coded shortcut keycaps, designed for editors who spend hours each day editing.
Learn More DaVinci Resolve Speed Editor - $395 DaVinci Resolve Editor Keyboard - $595 DaVinci Resolve Color Panels DaVinci Resolve color panels let you adjust multiple parameters at once so you can create unique looks that are impossible with a mouse and keyboard. The incredibly small DaVinci Resolve Micro Panel is great for new colorists just getting started or anyone that needs a portable panel. It features 3 high quality trackballs, knobs for primary adjustment controls and buttons for playback and navigation. The DaVinci Resolve Mini Panel features additional controls and screens for accessing virtually all palettes and tools. For the ultimate in control, the DaVinci Resolve Advanced Panel gives high end professional colorists access to every single feature and command mapped to a specific button! Learn More DaVinci Resolve Mini Panel DaVinci Resolve Micro Panel DaVinci Resolve Advanced Panel Fairlight Professional Audio Consoles Designed in collaboration with professional sound engineers, Fairlight hardware consoles streamline your workflow, acting as a natural extension of the software. The intuitive, task based design adapts automatically, putting the controls you need right at your fingertips when you need them. That means you'll spend more time being creative and work faster than using just a mouse and keyboard! The Fairlight Desktop Console is a complete mixing console that’s ideal for use in home studios, small suites or on the road. You can also install Fairlight Studio Console components into your own desk or purchase a pre‑configured multi bay Fairlight console for dedicated audio suites and scoring stages! Learn More Download DaVinci Resolve Free! The best creative tools shouldn’t be limited to Hollywood. That’s why there’s a free version of DaVinci Resolve, so you can learn how to use the same tools that professional Hollywood artists use. DaVinci Resolve is designed to inspire creativity so you can focus on doing your best work. Once you learn the software and start using it for more work, you can purchase DaVinci Resolve Studio which adds tons of additional effects, 3D and more. Adding an editor keyboard, color control panel, or audio console lets you work even faster because you can use both hands at the same time, allowing you to be more creative and do things that are impossible with a mouse! Two Great Versions DaVinci Resolve DaVinci Resolve is the world’s only all in one solution for editing, color, VFX, motion graphics and audio! The free version works with virtually all 8‑bit video formats at up to 60fps in resolutions as high as Ultra HD 3840 x 2160. The free version includes multi-user collaboration and HDR grading! Free Download Now DaVinci Resolve Studio Includes everything in the free version plus the DaVinci Neural Engine, dozens of additional Resolve FX, temporal and spatial noise reduction, stereoscopic 3D, film grain, optical blur and mist effects, and more. It also supports 10‑bit video at up to 120 frames per second and resolutions beyond 4K.
Buy Online Now $295 DaVinci Resolve 18 Select Range All Software Editor Keyboard Color Grading Panels Fairlight Audio Consoles All Software Editor Keyboard Color Grading Panels Fairlight Audio Consoles Software DaVinci Resolve 18 Hollywood’s most popular solution for editing, visual effects, motion graphics, color correction and audio post production, all in a single software tool for Mac, Windows and Linux! Free DaVinci Resolve Studio 18 The most powerful DaVinci Resolve adds DaVinci Neural Engine for automatic AI region tracking, stereoscopic tools, more Resolve FX filters, more Fairlight FX audio plugins and advanced HDR grading.
$295 Buy Online Now $295 Editor Keyboards DaVinci Resolve Speed Editor Includes large search dial in a design that includes only the specific keys needed for editing. Includes Bluetooth with battery for wireless use so it's more portable than a full sized keyboard! $395 DaVinci Resolve Editor Keyboard Full sized traditional QWERTY editor keyboard in a premium metal design. Featuring a metal search dial with clutch, plus extra edit, trim and timecode keys. Can be installed inset for flush mounting.
$595 Color Panels DaVinci Resolve Micro Panel Low profile panel features 3 high resolution trackballs and 12 precision machined knobs to access the primary color correction tools. Includes buttons for common features and workspace navigation.
$859 DaVinci Resolve Mini Panel This model includes the features of the micro panel model plus two LCDs with menus and buttons for switching tools, adding color corrector nodes, applying secondary grades and using Power Windows.
$2,115 DaVinci Resolve Advanced Panel Designed in collaboration with professional Hollywood colorists, the DaVinci Resolve Advanced Panel features a massive number of controls for direct access to every DaVinci color correction feature.
$27,585 Fairlight Audio Consoles Fairlight Desktop Console Portable audio control surface includes 12 premium touch sensitive flying faders, channel LCDs for advanced processing, automation and transport controls plus HDMI for an external graphics display.
$3,139 Fairlight Desktop Audio Editor Get incredibly fast audio editing for sound engineers working on tight deadlines! Includes LCD screen, touch sensitive control knobs, built in search dial and full keyboard with multi function keys.
$4,485 Fairlight Advanced Consoles Used by Hollywood and broadcasters, these large consoles make it easy to mix large projects with a massive number of channels and tracks. Modular design allows customizing 2, 3, 4, or 5 bay consoles! From $21,995 Fairlight Studio Console Bundles Fairlight Console Bundle 2 Bay Complete Fairlight studio console with 1 channel fader, 1 channel control, 1 audio editor, 2 LCD monitors and 2 bay chassis.
$21,995 Fairlight Console Bundle 3 Bay Complete Fairlight studio console with 2 channel faders, 2 channel controls, 1 audio editor, 3 LCD monitors and 3 bay chassis.
$29,995 Fairlight Console Bundle 4 Bay Complete Fairlight studio console with 3 channel faders, 3 channel controls, 1 audio editor, 4 LCD monitors and 4 bay chassis.
$39,995 Fairlight Console Bundle 5 Bay Complete Fairlight studio console with 4 channel faders, 4 channel controls, 1 audio editor, 5 LCD monitors and 5 bay chassis.
$48,995 Fairlight Console Chassis Leg Kit 0 Deg Fairlight studio console legs at 0º angle for when you require a flat working surface. Required for all Fairlight Studio Consoles.
$395 Fairlight Console Chassis Leg Kit 8 Deg Fairlight studio console legs at 8º angle for when you require a slightly angled working surface. Required for all Fairlight Studio Consoles.
$395 Fairlight Studio Console Individual Modules Fairlight Console Channel Fader Features 12 motorized faders, rotary control knobs illuminated buttons for pan, solo, mute and call, plus bank select buttons.
$4,075 Fairlight Console Channel Control 12 groups of touch sensitive rotary control knobs and illuminated buttons, assignable to fader strips, single channel or master bus.
$2,495 Fairlight Console Audio Editor Get quick access to virtually every Fairlight feature! Includes a 12” LCD, graphical keyboard, macro keys, transport controls and more.
$4,535 Fairlight Console LCD Monitor Features HDMI, SDI inputs for video and computer monitoring and Ethernet for graphics display of channel status and meters.
$1,295 Fairlight Studio Console Unpopulated Chassis Fairlight Console Chassis 2 Bay Empty 2 bay Fairlight studio console chassis that can be populated with various faders, channel controls, edit and LCD monitors.
$8,595 Fairlight Console Chassis 3 Bay Empty 3 bay Fairlight studio console chassis that can be populated with various faders, channel controls, edit and LCD monitors.
$9,595 Fairlight Console Chassis 4 Bay Empty 4 bay Fairlight studio console chassis that can be populated with various faders, channel controls, edit and LCD monitors.
$10,995 Fairlight Console Chassis 5 Bay Empty 5 bay Fairlight studio console chassis that can be populated with various faders, channel controls, edit and LCD monitors.
$12,995 Accessories For Custom Furniture Fairlight HDMI Monitor Interface Use alternative HDMI or SDI televisions and monitors when building a Fairlight studio console.
$269 Fairlight Console Mounting Bar 2 Bay Mounting bar with locating pins to allow correct alignment of bay modules when building a custom 2 bay Fairlight console.
$375 Fairlight Console Mounting Bar 3 Bay Mounting bar with locating pins to allow correct alignment of bay modules when building a custom 3 bay Fairlight console.
$465 Fairlight Console Mounting Bar 4 Bay Mounting bar with locating pins to allow correct alignment of bay modules when building a custom 4 bay Fairlight console.
$535 Fairlight Console Mounting Bar 5 Bay Mounting bar with locating pins to allow correct alignment of bay modules when building a custom 5 bay Fairlight console.
$605 Fairlight Console Side Arm Kit Side arm kit mounts into Fairlight console mounting bar and holds each fader, channel control and LCD monitor module.
$235 Fairlight Narrow Blank Kit Blank 1/3rd wide bay for building a custom console with the extra 1/3rd section. Includes blank infill panels.
$495 Fairlight Console Channel Rack Kit Allows mounting standard 19 inch rack mount equipment in the channel control area of the Fairlight studio console.
$239 Fairlight Console Channel Control Blank Blank panel to fill in the channel control area of the Fairlight studio console.
$185 Fairlight Console LCD Monitor Blank Blank panel to fill in the LCD monitor area of the Fairlight studio console when you're not using the standard Fairlight LCD monitor.
$425 Fairlight Console Channel Fader Blank Blank panel to fill in the fader control area of the Fairlight studio console.
$199 Fairlight Audio Interfaces Fairlight Audio MADI Upgrade Adds 3 MADI I/O connections to the single MADI on the accelerator card, for a total of 256 inputs and outputs at 24 bit and 48kHz.
$199 Fairlight Audio Accelerator Add up to 2,000 tracks with real time processing of EQ, dynamics, 6 plug‑ins per track, plus MADI for extra 64 inputs and outputs.
$1,135 Fairlight Audio Interface Adds analog and digital connections, preamps for mics and instruments, sample rate conversion and sync at any standard frame rate.
$2,375 Products Professional Cameras DaVinci Resolve and Fusion Software ATEM Live Production Switchers Ultimatte Disk Recorders and Storage Capture and Playback Cintel Scanner Standards Conversion Broadcast Converters Video and Audio Monitoring Network Storage MultiView Routing and Distribution Streaming and Encoding Support Resellers Support Center Contact Us Community Forum Splice Community Company Offices About Us Partners Media Privacy Policy All items on this website are copyright Blackmagic Design Pty. Ltd. 2023, all rights reserved. All trademarks are property of their respective owners. MSRP includes duties, but excludes sales tax and shipping costs.
This website uses remarketing services to advertise on third party websites to previous visitors to our site.
You can opt out at any time by changing cookie settings.
Privacy Policy Follow us: Country or Territory: United States Please select your Country or Territory Argentina Australia Austria Brazil Canada China Denmark Finland France Germany Hong Kong SAR, China India Italy Japan Korea Mexico Netherlands New Zealand Norway Poland Portugal Singapore South Africa Spain Sweden Chinese Taipei Turkey UAE Ukraine United Kingdom United States Products Professional Cameras DaVinci Resolve and Fusion Software ATEM Live Production Switchers Ultimatte Disk Recorders and Storage Capture and Playback Cintel Scanner Standards Conversion Broadcast Converters Video and Audio Monitoring Network Storage MultiView Routing and Distribution Streaming and Encoding Support Resellers Support Center Contact Us Community Forum Splice Community Company Offices About Us Partners Media Country or Territory: United States Please select your Country or Territory Argentina Australia Austria Brazil Canada China Denmark Finland France Germany Hong Kong SAR, China India Italy Japan Korea Mexico Netherlands New Zealand Norway Poland Portugal Singapore South Africa Spain Sweden Chinese Taipei Turkey UAE Ukraine United Kingdom United States Follow us: All items on this website are copyright Blackmagic Design Pty. Ltd. 2023, all rights reserved. All trademarks are property of their respective owners. MSRP includes duties, but excludes sales tax and shipping costs.
This website uses remarketing services to advertise on third party websites to previous visitors to our site.
You can opt out at any time by changing cookie settings.
Privacy Policy
