The Verge
2019
https://www.theverge.com

The Verge homepage The Verge The Verge logo.
/ Tech / Reviews / Science / Entertainment / More Menu Expand Elon Musk’s ‘everything app’ plan for X, in his own words During an employee all-hands, Musk said that Twitter became X to replace YouTube, LinkedIn, FaceTime, dating apps, and even your bank.
| Comments Top Stories 1 1 Sam Bankman-Fried didn’t ask where the $8 billion went Elizabeth Lopatto Oct 31 | Comments 2 2 YouTube is getting serious about blocking ad blockers Emma Roth Oct 31 | Comments 3 3 Match drops out of Google Play antitrust showdown Jay Peters Oct 31 | Comments 4 4 DoorDash now warns you that your food might get cold if you don’t tip Jennifer Pattison Tuohy Oct 31 | Comments 5 5 Goodbye, Touch Bar, you held incredible promise Alex Cranz Oct 31 | Comments Today’s Storystream Feed refreshed Twitter iOS’s Lock Screen weather widget is apparently showing some users a file icon instead of snow, as reported by 9to5Mac.
 Are you seeing this, too? I’ve asked Apple what might be going on.
Meta is making it easier to chat with your Quest friends while you’re in Horizon Worlds as part of the v134 update to the app.
 It’s the company’s latest way to make Horizon Worlds more social; Meta rolled out “world chat,” an in-experience text chat, to all users earlier this month.
It’s been more popular in its first five days of streaming than other previous record-holders — a list that includes The Super Mario Bros. Movie , according to a Peacock press email.
Five Nights at Freddy’s was released simultaneously on Peacock and in movie theaters, where it’s also had a huge launch.
External Link WeWork, a chaotic shared working space business that in early 2019 was considered valuable, to the tune of $47 billion , may be prepping for insolvency.
The Wall Street Journal published a report today saying that WeWork, after defaulting on interest payments on October 2nd, is considering filing for bankruptcy. An unnamed spokesperson reportedly called it “speculation.” [WSJ] Dan Seifert runs down the news from Monday night’s Scary Fast primetime product event , covering what’s new about these updates to the MacBook Pro and iMac lineup and who should be the most interested in an upgrade. (Anyone who needs that Space Black exterior or someone who is replacing an Apple machine with an Intel processor or the first-gen M1 chip.) Apple ‘Scary Fast’ Mac launch event: the 4 biggest announcements Apple’s Mac-heavy product launch event gave us our first look at the M3-equipped iMac and MacBook Pro models.
| Comments Most Popular Most Popular Here’s what Apple really means when it says ‘shot on iPhone’ Jess Weatherbed Oct 31 | Comments All the news from Apple’s ‘Scary Fast’ Mac event Umar Shakir Oct 30 | Comments Apple ‘Scary Fast’ Mac launch event: the 4 biggest announcements Emma Roth Oct 31 | Comments DoorDash now warns you that your food might get cold if you don’t tip Jennifer Pattison Tuohy Oct 31 | Comments Goodbye, Touch Bar, you held incredible promise Alex Cranz Oct 31 | Comments Instagram Sure, it looks cool , but what can you do with a mini Game Boy Camera? Vjeran and I hit the streets of San Francisco to capture a few landmarks. Want one? The DIY design is ready if you’ve got fine soldering skills! Advertisement Advertisement Advertiser Content PlayStation PlayStation These might be the first photos of the slimmer new PS5 and original side-by-side | Comments NASA has a bunch of pictures , going back to 2007, to answer just that. Here’s a gallery of my favorites.
1/7 A couple weeks ago, I flew out to Hollywood to check out Serve Robotics, a company that’s using a fleet of shopping cart-sized robots to make Uber Eats deliveries.
We spoke to the people who are working behind-the-scenes to make robot delivery happen, including supervisors, field agents, and even the CEO. We even interviewed the guy behind the viral TikTok account where he just yells at the robots.
The real friends were the robots we met along the way.
Tech Tech M2 versus M3: how the new MacBook Pros compare | Comments Sony Sony Bungie delaying Destiny 2 expansion and Marathon release amid layoffs | Comments Twitter The boys are back in town, baby. Musk appeared on a special episode of The Joe Rogan Experience , the first two hours of which are available on X (usually, the interview would be exclusive to Spotify, aside from clips). It’s mostly just bros being bros, but if you thought we were going to get out of this unscathed, Musk does throw in a little Soros conspiracy theorizing.
Nokia is bringing legal action against Amazon and HP over “unauthorized use of Nokia’s video-related technologies,” Nokia’s Arvin Patel writes in a blog post.
 The company claims it has made “amicable licenses” with Apple and Samsung.
External Link The company is also getting rid of one-day and three-day suspensions in favor of a system of two warnings and then a seven-day suspension. Twitch detailed the changes in a new blog post.
Discord also recently announced some changes to its moderation practices, including giving out warnings instead of permanent bans.
[safety.twitch.tv] Gaming Gaming Deltarune’s next chapter is nearly finished | Comments AI is on a collision course with music — Reservoir’s Golnar Khosrowshahi thinks there’s a way through The publisher behind the songwriting copyrights to some of the most popular music ever recorded doesn’t think AI spells doom for the industry.
| Comments Tech Tech Tech Here’s what Apple really means when it says ‘shot on iPhone’ Jess Weatherbed Oct 31 | Comments Chrome on iOS now lets you move the address bar to the bottom Jon Porter Oct 31 | Comments Apple’s new M3 chips have big GPU upgrades focused on gaming and pro apps Tom Warren Oct 31 | Comments Twitch Twitch Twitch ditches Switch | Comments For all we’ve written on this website about the [deep breath] Belkin BOOST↑CHARGE PRO™ 2-in-1 Wireless Charging Dock with MagSafe and the Anker 3-in-1 Cube with MagSafe , nobody noticed this crucial detail. That ends today.
Tesla Tesla Tesla wins another court case by arguing fatal Autopilot crash was caused by human error | Comments Policy Policy Watermarks aren’t the silver bullet for AI misinformation | Comments Web Web Google is officially trying to make .ing domains a th.ing | Comments Apple’s new high-end MacBook Pro comes in black with up to 128GB of RAM The M3 Pro and M3 Max models ditch space gray for a darker tone and include some serious GPU upgrades on the inside.
| Comments Podcasts Podcasts AI is on a collision course with music — Reservoir’s Golnar Khosrowshahi thinks there’s a way through Nilay Patel Oct 31 | Comments From the cloud to your computer: a new theory of how software works David Pierce Oct 30 | Comments Today on The Vergecast: Apple events go prime time, and Twitter wannabes go 90.
David Pierce Oct 27 | Comments Today on The Vergecast: we answer all your questions about The Vergecast.
David Pierce Oct 25 | Comments Harvard professor Lawrence Lessig on balancing free speech with protecting democracy Nilay Patel Oct 24 | Comments Apple Apple Apple can’t quit Lightning | Comments A new graph, courtesy of Axios , shows just how amazing 2023 has been for video games. The year has the highest number of games boasting a Metacritic score of 90 or better in the last twenty years.
Yes, this is based on aggregated critic scores but based on what we’ve seen this year , this tracks.
But it’s really hard, impossible even, to celebrate all these good-ass games when the people who’re making them keep getting laid off amidst one of best years the industry has ever seen creatively.
Microsoft Microsoft Microsoft’s Windows 11 2023 Update arrives with Microsoft Teams changes | Comments External Link That’s the question the Supreme Court will weigh in on during a hearing on Tuesday, where it’ll decide whether it’s a violation of the First Amendment for public officials to block critics online.
The court will hear arguments from two cases: one in which a Michigan city manager was sued for blocking a critic from his Facebook page, and another case where school board members blocked parents on Facebook and X.
[NBC News] Youtube Apple has released behind-the-scenes footage of its recent “Scary Fast” Mac event that explains how the show was shot on the iPhone 15 Pro Max.
The tech giant says it utilized the free Blackmagic Camera app , which features the same interface as Blackmagic film cameras that are used in the movie and TV industry. Oh, and thousands of dollars worth of professional studio equipment of course.
Tech Tech The best robot vacuum for me is the one I hacked | Comments Science Science Science The Tsubame Archax is the coolest $3 million mecha on Earth — and soon, the Moon Tim Stevens Oct 30 | Comments Google researchers use off-the-shelf headphones to measure heart rate Wes Davis Oct 28 | Comments Clean energy is officially ‘unstoppable’ now Justine Calma Oct 24 | Comments Tech Tech Microsoft AI inserted a distasteful poll into a news report about a woman’s death | Comments Google Google Chrome on iOS now lets you move the address bar to the bottom | Comments External Link Microsoft announced the next slate of games coming to Xbox Game Pass, and there’s a lot of interesting things to check out. One I can already recommend is Jusant; I had access to a review build and it struck me as something like Journey but with rock climbing. I’ll share more thoughts on it soon.
Other games that interest me include Thirsty Suitors, Like A Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name , Wild Hearts , and Coral Island.
The video games never stop ! Read about all the new Game Pass games in Xbox’s blog post.
[Xbox Wire] Apple’s prime-time product event went by pretty quickly on Monday nigh t, but if you just want the highlights, here’s a 10-minute version with everything you need to know about the new M3 chips , as well as its updated MacBook Pros and iMacs.
External Link I’ll lay my cards on the table: I disagree with tech policy luminary Tim Wu’s support for a lot of the child safety bills being proposed in the US right now. But his Atlantic story on their failure underscores just how bad Congress has been at passing any regulation (or even empowering tech oversight agencies to function ) amid a bunch of grandstanding about “Big Tech”: It would almost be reassuring if we could blame partisanship or corporate lobbyists for the outcome. But this is a story of culture war, personal grievance, and petty beefs so indefensible as to be a disgrace to the Republic.
[The Atlantic] FTX’s Sam Bankman-Fried is on trial for fraud and conspiracy The trial could have huge implications for the crypto industry. Stay up to date as The Verge covers the trial from the Manhattan court.
| Comments Creators Creators Creators TikTok’s Spotify competitor adds indie artists to its library Mia Sato Oct 31 | Comments Gambling streams are ‘part of the contract’ for Kick’s newest streamer Ash Parrish Oct 30 | Comments Spotify decides who gets to be an artist Ariel Shapiro Oct 27 | Comments Deals Deals Apple’s second-gen AirPods Pro with USB-C are matching their all-time low | Comments Now that Alan Wake 2 is out, Remedy Entertainment is providing some updates on its next projects. In the company’s most recent earnings statement , we learned that Control 2 is still “in the proof-of-concept stage,” and that both multiplayer game Condor and the Max Payne remakes have moved to “production readiness stage.” External Link This time, online play for Assassin’s Creed 2 on Xbox 360, along with Assassin’s Creed Revelations and Ghost Recon Future Soldier on PC, is on the chopping block.
Starting on January 25th, 2024, you’ll no longer be able to access multiplayer, link Ubisoft accounts, or access online features within these games. Ubisoft is decommissioning online services for 10 games in total.
[www.ubisoft.com] Youtube Netflix’s Scott Pilgrim Takes Off is an “anime” the same way Justin Trudeau is the president of Canada.
 But if the series’ opening credit sequence is any indication, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off is going to resonate with the North American otaku set when it hits Netflix on November 17th.
Twitter On Monday night, NHL and NBA fans in Detroit, Minnesota , Milwaukee , Dallas , and other places covered by Bally Sports (which operates regional sports networks spun off in the big Fox / Disney deal ), who subscribe just to watch their local teams got mostly error messages instead of games.
In a statement to the Detroit Free Press , Bally Sports SVP/GM Greg Hammaren blamed the outage on Okta and problems with its Auth0 platform.
Of course, it’s not Okta that still blacked out local access to the games via other platforms despite the outage.
Pagination More Stories Entertainment Entertainment Entertainment Invincible season 2 is a thoughtful step toward a bigger universe Charles Pulliam-Moore Oct 30 | Comments Resident Evil Village on the iPhone could be a preview of Apple’s gaming future Jay Peters Oct 30 | Comments These might be the first photos of the slimmer new PS5 and original side-by-side Emma Roth Oct 31 | Comments Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell Or Share My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status How We Rate and Review Products Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement The Verge is a vox media network Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2023 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved
