Microsoft is investing $1 billion in OpenAI to create brain-like machines | MIT Technology Review
2019
https://www.technologyreview.com/f/613994/microsoft-is-investing-1-billion-in-openai-to-create-brain-like-machines

Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Microsoft is investing $1 billion in OpenAI to create brain-like machines By Martin Giles archive page OPen AI and Microsoft logos OpenAI The AI lab gets to throw Microsoft’s supercomputing and cloud computing muscle at its bid to build artificial general intelligence (AGI).
The news: Microsoft says OpenAI will help it jointly develop and train new AI technologies for its Azure cloud computing service. It will also work with it to develop new supercomputing hardware to try to achieve AGI—machines with the capacity to learn tasks the way human beings do. That’s a holy grail of AI that still remains (and may always remain) out of reach. OpenAI’s founders, which include Elon Musk and other tech leaders, reckon AGI could help solve longstanding challenges in areas that range from climate change to health care.
Show me the money: Since it was set up in 2015, OpenAI has developed AI that’s sought to defeat human players at games like Dota 2 and frighteningly effective language AI, among other things. It began as a nonprofit research lab with the mission of developing safe AGI, but AI models need mountains of data to crunch, and that requires huge amounts of expensive computing power. So earlier this year, OpenAI set up a new for-profit arm to help pay for its work. (OpenAI calls its model “capped profit” because investors can achieve a maximum of 100 times return on their investment. Still, not bad.) Go big or go home: The investment is part of Microsoft's new strategy and will help the firm keep pace with rivals like Google, Facebook, and Amazon, which have all spent big on AI in recent years.
While many AI researchers believe AGI is unachievable, OpenAI may be hoping to reach it by massively scaling existing deep-learning approaches rather than by developing new ones. There’s no guarantee that throwing more brute computing power at the problem will crack it, if it can even be cracked, so Microsoft’s billion-dollar bet is definitely a risky one.
Sign up here for our daily newsletter The Download to get your dose of the latest must-read news from the world of emerging tech.
hide by Martin Giles Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Think that your plastic is being recycled? Think again.
Douglas Main 15 Climate Tech Companies to Watch Amy Nordrum Deep Dive Artificial intelligence This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI The tool, called Nightshade, messes up training data in ways that could cause serious damage to image-generating AI models.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Driving companywide efficiencies with AI Advanced AI and ML capabilities revolutionize how administrative and operations tasks are done.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page Minds of machines: The great AI consciousness conundrum Philosophers, cognitive scientists, and engineers are grappling with what it would take for AI to become conscious.
By Grace Huckins archive page Generative AI deployment: Strategies for smooth scaling Our global poll examines key decision points for putting AI to use in the enterprise.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
