Digital Medicine
2019
https://www.nature.com/collections/egjifhdcih

Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles and JavaScript.
Advertisement View all journals Search Log in Explore content About the journal Publish with us Sign up for alerts RSS feed nature nature medicine focus Focus 07 January 2019 Digital Medicine As Nature Medicine celebrates its 25th anniversary, we bring you a special Focus on Digital Medicine that highlights the new technologies transforming medicine and healthcare, as well as the related regulatory challenges ahead.
Reviews and Perspectives A call for deep-learning healthcare Here we argue that now is the time to create smarter healthcare systems in which the best treatment decisions are computationally learned from electronic health record data by deep-learning methodologies.
Beau Norgeot Benjamin S. Glicksberg Atul J. Butte Comment 7 Jan 2019 Nature Medicine Guidelines for reinforcement learning in healthcare In this Comment, we provide guidelines for reinforcement learning for decisions about patient treatment that we hope will accelerate the rate at which observational cohorts can inform healthcare practice in a safe, risk-conscious manner.
Omer Gottesman Fredrik Johansson Leo Anthony Celi Comment 7 Jan 2019 Nature Medicine A guide to deep learning in healthcare A primer for deep-learning techniques for healthcare, centering on deep learning in computer vision, natural language processing, reinforcement learning, and generalized methods.
Andre Esteva Alexandre Robicquet Jeff Dean Perspective 7 Jan 2019 Nature Medicine The practical implementation of artificial intelligence technologies in medicine To bring the full potential of AI to the clinic, practical and regulatory changes need to be made in health systems globally.
Jianxing He Sally L. Baxter Kang Zhang Perspective 7 Jan 2019 Nature Medicine Privacy in the age of medical big data The increased amount of health care data collected brings with it ethical and legal challenges for protecting the patient while optimizing health care and research.
W. Nicholson Price II I. Glenn Cohen Review Article 7 Jan 2019 Nature Medicine High-performance medicine: the convergence of human and artificial intelligence Artificial intelligence is beginning to be applied in the medical setting and has potential to improve workflows and errors, impacting patients and clinicians alike.
Eric J. Topol Review Article 7 Jan 2019 Nature Medicine News Medicine in the digital age As Nature Medicine celebrates its 25th anniversary, we bring you a special Focus on Digital Medicine that highlights the new technologies transforming medicine and healthcare, as well as the related regulatory challenges ahead.
Editorial 7 Jan 2019 Nature Medicine Twenty-five ways clinical trials have changed in the last 25 years Exploring the evolution, from analysis and endpoints to registration and regulations Mike May News Feature 7 Jan 2019 Nature Medicine Calculated risk Genetics and electronic health records come together to identify heritable traits Shraddha Chakradhar News Feature 7 Jan 2019 Nature Medicine Deeper learning Machine learning makes new sense of psychiatric symptoms Brianna Abbott News Feature 7 Jan 2019 Nature Medicine Toward a clearer picture of health Rima Arnaout is an assistant professor of cardiology and a member of the University of California San Francisco Bakar Computational Health Sciences Institute. She has received a Chan Zuckerberg Biohub Intercampus Research Award, as well as funding support from the US National Institutes of Health and the American Heart Association’s Institute for Precision Cardiovascular Medicine.
Rima Arnaout Turning Points 7 Jan 2019 Nature Medicine Braving the new world of artificial intelligence Kee Yuan Ngiam is the group chief technology officer at National University Health System, Singapore, and assistant professor at the School of Medicine of the National University of Singapore. His research focuses on the effects of using artificial intelligence in healthcare. He is the 2018 recipient of Singapore’s National Health IT Excellence Award, which recognizes individuals who advanced healthcare through innovation.
Kee Yuan Ngiam Turning Points 7 Jan 2019 Nature Medicine Artificial intelligence for the electrocardiogram Deep-learning algorithms can be applied to large datasets of electrocardiograms, are capable of identifying abnormal heart rhythms and mechanical dysfunction, and could aid healthcare decisions.
Ana Mincholé Blanca Rodriguez News & Views 7 Jan 2019 Nature Medicine Research Identifying facial phenotypes of genetic disorders using deep learning A deep-learning algorithm, trained on over 17,000 real-world patient facial images, achieves high accuracy in identifying rare genetic disorders.
Yaron Gurovich Yair Hanani Karen W. Gripp Letter 7 Jan 2019 Nature Medicine Cardiologist-level arrhythmia detection and classification in ambulatory electrocardiograms using a deep neural network Analysis of electrocardiograms using an end-to-end deep learning approach can detect and classify cardiac arrhythmia with high accuracy, similar to that of cardiologists.
Awni Y. Hannun Pranav Rajpurkar Andrew Y. Ng Letter 7 Jan 2019 Nature Medicine Screening for cardiac contractile dysfunction using an artificial intelligence–enabled electrocardiogram A deep learning algorithm applied to the electrocardiogram—a test of the heart’s electrical activity—can detect abnormally low contractile function of the heart, opening up the possibility for a simple screening tool for this condition.
Zachi I. Attia Suraj Kapa Paul A. Friedman Letter 7 Jan 2019 Nature Medicine Classification and mutation prediction from non–small cell lung cancer histopathology images using deep learning A convolutional neural network model using feature extraction and machine-learning techniques provides a tool for classification of lung cancer histopathology images and predicting mutational status of driver oncogenes Nicolas Coudray Paolo Santiago Ocampo Aristotelis Tsirigos Article 17 Sep 2018 Nature Medicine Automated deep-neural-network surveillance of cranial images for acute neurologic events A deep-learning algorithm is developed to provide rapid and accurate diagnosis of clinical 3D head CT-scan images to triage and prioritize urgent neurological events, thus potentially accelerating time to diagnosis and care in clinical settings.
Joseph J. Titano Marcus Badgeley Eric K. Oermann Letter 13 Aug 2018 Nature Medicine Clinically applicable deep learning for diagnosis and referral in retinal disease A novel deep learning architecture performs device-independent tissue segmentation of clinical 3D retinal images followed by separate diagnostic classification that meets or exceeds human expert clinical diagnoses of retinal disease.
Jeffrey De Fauw Joseph R. Ledsam Olaf Ronneberger Article 13 Aug 2018 Nature Medicine The Artificial Intelligence Clinician learns optimal treatment strategies for sepsis in intensive care A reinforcement learning agent, the AI Clinician, can assist physicians by providing individualized and clinically interpretable treatment decisions to improve patient outcomes.
Matthieu Komorowski Leo A. Celi A. Aldo Faisal Article 22 Oct 2018 Nature Medicine Related content Master clinical medical knowledge at certificated-doctor-level with deep learning model AI is used increasingly in medical diagnostics. Here, the authors present a deep learning model that masters medical knowledge, demonstrated by it having passed the written test of the 2017 National Medical Licensing Examination in China, and can provide help with clinical diagnosis based on electronic health care records.
Ji Wu Xien Liu Ping Lv Article Open Access 19 Oct 2018 Nature Communications Predicting treatment benefit in multiple myeloma through simulation of alternative treatment effects Selection of the right cancer treatment is still a challenge. Here, the authors introduce a framework to analyze treatment benefits, using the idea that patients with similar genetic tumor profiles receiving different treatments can be used to model their responses to the alternative treatment.
Joske Ubels Pieter Sonneveld Jeroen de Ridder Article Open Access 27 Jul 2018 Nature Communications Smartphone app for non-invasive detection of anemia using only patient-sourced photos Anemia has a global prevalence of over 2 billion people and is diagnosed via blood-based laboratory test. Here the authors describe a smartphone app that can estimate hemoglobin levels and detect anemia by analyzing pictures of fingernail beds taken with a smartphone and without the need of any external equipment.
Robert G. Mannino David R. Myers Wilbur A. Lam Article Open Access 4 Dec 2018 Nature Communications The expanding role of implantable devices to monitor heart failure and pulmonary hypertension In this Review, Yacoub and McLeod summarize the rationale for monitoring patients with heart failure or pulmonary arterial hypertension to detect haemodynamic changes that predict the deterioration from subclinical to overt disease, the transition from noninvasive to implantable devices and the current and anticipated clinical use of these devices.
Magdi H. Yacoub Christopher McLeod Review Article 26 Oct 2018 Nature Reviews Cardiology Computational models in cardiology Computational models are increasingly used in cardiology to integrate multiple data sets from individual patients and create virtual-patient simulations. In this Review, Niederer and colleagues discuss how multi-scale models of cardiac electrophysiology and mechanics can support diagnostic assessment and clinical decision-making and pave the way to personalized cardiac care.
Steven A. Niederer Joost Lumens Natalia A. Trayanova Review Article 25 Oct 2018 Nature Reviews Cardiology Bringing digital mental health to where it is needed most Mental health technologies, such as apps, clinical texting, social media platforms and web-based tools, have arrived. Channelling these resources to help people with serious mental illnesses, clinicians in need of support, and people in low-and middle-income countries will have the most impact on the global burden of mental illness.
Dror Ben-Zeev David C. Atkins Comment 23 Oct 2017 Nature Human Behaviour Industry embraces virtual trial platforms Site-less trials promise to speed up drug development — but obstacles to in-home data collection abound.
Elie Dolgin News and Analysis 27 Apr 2018 Nature Reviews Drug Discovery A call for a global ‘bigger’ data approach to Alzheimer disease Clinical trials for Alzheimer disease drugs have an exceptionally high failure rate, discouraging investment in the field despite the unmet medical need. Drug developers need to more effectively harness existing and emerging data and digital technologies to improve the likelihood of success.
Eric Perakslis Henry Riordan Emilio Merlo Pich Comment 6 Jul 2018 Nature Reviews Drug Discovery INFORMED: an incubator at the US FDA for driving innovations in data science and agile technology Information Exchange and Data Transformation (INFORMED), a multidisciplinary initiative anchored in the FDA Oncology Center of Excellence, is a decentralized science and technology incubator designed to harness the power of big data and advanced analytics to improve disease outcomes.
Sean Khozin Richard Pazdur Anand Shah Comment 6 Apr 2018 Nature Reviews Drug Discovery Genetics of blood lipids among ~300,000 multi-ethnic participants of the Million Veteran Program Analysis of genetic data and blood lipid measurements from over 300,000 participants in the Million Veteran Program identifies new associations for blood lipid traits.
Derek Klarin Scott M. Damrauer Themistocles L. Assimes Article 1 Oct 2018 Nature Genetics A large electronic-health-record-based genome-wide study of serum lipids Genome-wide association analysis using electronic health record data from >94,000 individuals identifies loci associated with plasma lipid concentrations. Longitudinal measurements allow for the calculation of genetic risk scores and increase the variance explained.
Thomas J. Hoffmann Elizabeth Theusch Neil Risch Article 5 Mar 2018 Nature Genetics Scalable and accurate deep learning with electronic health records Alvin Rajkomar Eyal Oren Jeffrey Dean Article Open Access 8 May 2018 npj Digital Medicine Wearable sensors for Parkinson’s disease: which data are worth collecting for training symptom detection models Luca Lonini Andrew Dai Arun Jayaraman Article Open Access 23 Nov 2018 npj Digital Medicine Pivotal trial of an autonomous AI-based diagnostic system for detection of diabetic retinopathy in primary care offices Michael D. Abràmoff Philip T. Lavin James C. Folk Article Open Access 28 Aug 2018 npj Digital Medicine Machine-learned epidemiology: real-time detection of foodborne illness at scale Adam Sadilek Stephanie Caty Evgeniy Gabrilovich Article Open Access 6 Nov 2018 npj Digital Medicine Explore content Research articles Reviews & Analysis News & Comment Podcasts Current issue Collections Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Sign up for alerts RSS feed About the journal Aims & Scope Journal Information Journal Metrics About the Editors Our publishing models Editorial Values Statement Editorial Policies Content Types Nature Medicine Classic Collection Web Feeds Posters Contact Publish with us Submission Guidelines For Reviewers Language editing services Submit manuscript Search Quick links Explore articles by subject Find a job Guide to authors Editorial policies Nature Medicine ( Nat Med ) ISSN 1546-170X (online) ISSN 1078-8956 (print) nature.com sitemap About Nature Portfolio About us Press releases Press office Contact us Discover content Journals A-Z Articles by subject Nano Protocol Exchange Nature Index Publishing policies Nature portfolio policies Open access Author & Researcher services Reprints & permissions Research data Language editing Scientific editing Nature Masterclasses Live Expert Trainer-led workshops Research Solutions Libraries & institutions Librarian service & tools Librarian portal Open research Recommend to library Advertising & partnerships Advertising Partnerships & Services Media kits Branded content Career development Nature Careers Nature Conferences Nature events Regional websites Nature Africa Nature China Nature India Nature Italy Nature Japan Nature Korea Nature Middle East Privacy Policy Use of cookies Your privacy choices/Manage cookies Legal notice Accessibility statement Terms & Conditions Your US state privacy rights © 2023 Springer Nature Limited Access provided by ' + names[0] + ' Access provided by ' + names[0] + '
