Made by Google, made to help
2019
https://blog.google/products/hardware/made-by-google-2019

Skip to main content Latest stories Product updates Product updates Android, Chrome & Play Android Chrome Chromebooks Google Play Wear OS by Google Devices & Services Chromecast Fitbit Google Nest Pixel Explore & Get Answers Bard Google Assistant Maps News Search Shopping Connect & Communicate Photos Translate Registry In The Cloud Docs, Sheets and Slides Gmail Google Cloud Meet More on the Cloud Blog See all product updates Android, Chrome & Play Android Chrome Chromebooks Google Play Wear OS by Google Devices & Services Chromecast Fitbit Google Nest Pixel Explore & Get Answers Bard Google Assistant Maps News Search Shopping Connect & Communicate Photos Translate Registry In The Cloud Docs, Sheets and Slides Gmail Google Cloud Meet More on the Cloud Blog See all product updates Company news Company news Outreach & initiatives Diversity and inclusion Education Google.org Grow with Google Sustainability See all Technology AI Developers Families Next billion users Safety and security See all Inside Google Data centers and infrastructure Doodles Googlers Life at Google See all Around the globe Google in Asia Google in Europe Google in Latin America See all Authors Sundar Pichai, CEO Ruth Porat, SVP and CFO Kent Walker, SVP See all Outreach & initiatives Diversity and inclusion Education Google.org Grow with Google Sustainability See all Technology AI Developers Families Next billion users Safety and security See all Inside Google Data centers and infrastructure Doodles Googlers Life at Google See all Around the globe Google in Asia Google in Europe Google in Latin America See all Authors Sundar Pichai, CEO Ruth Porat, SVP and CFO Kent Walker, SVP See all Press corner RSS feed The Keyword Latest stories Product updates Product updates Android, Chrome & Play Android Chrome Chromebooks Google Play Wear OS by Google Devices & Services Chromecast Fitbit Google Nest Pixel Explore & Get Answers Bard Google Assistant Maps News Search Shopping Connect & Communicate Photos Translate Registry In The Cloud Docs, Sheets and Slides Gmail Google Cloud Meet More on the Cloud Blog See all product updates Company news Company news Outreach & initiatives Diversity and inclusion Education Google.org Grow with Google Sustainability See all Technology AI Developers Families Next billion users Safety and security See all Inside Google Data centers and infrastructure Doodles Googlers Life at Google See all Around the globe Google in Asia Google in Europe Google in Latin America See all Authors Sundar Pichai, CEO Ruth Porat, SVP and CFO Kent Walker, SVP See all Press corner RSS feed Collection Made by Google, made to help Oct 15, 2019 · 12 articles 15 Oct, 2019 articles 12 Oct 15, 2019 12 articles 15 Oct, 2019 articles 12 Smartphones and other mobile computing devices have changed the world, giving you access to technology almost anywhere you go. It’s been super useful to have a powerful computer everywhere you are.
We think technology can be even more useful when computing is anywhere you need it, always available to help you. Your devices fade into the background, working together with AI and software to assist you throughout your day. We call this ambient computing.
This year's Made by Google products are designed to help you in your everyday, without intruding on your life. They’re designed with privacy at the core: To ensure that your privacy is protected, we've given you tools to stay in control, and keep your most sensitive data on the device. Finally, to do our part to leave the planet a better place, we’ve also designed our products with sustainability in mind. We've used recycled materials, and we're making our shipping carbon neutral.
Pixel 4, Pixel Buds, Pixelbook Go, Nest Mini and Nest Wifi are part of our vision to create a consistent, helpful Google for you. We hope you like them.
Rick Osterloh Senior Vice President, Devices & Services Pixel Pixel 4 is here to help With a great camera, Motion Sense, and the new Google Assistant built in, Pixel 4 is designed to be helpful throughout your day.
By Brian Rakowski - Oct 15, 2019 Sustainability Made by Google, manufactured with clean energy Learn about our sustainability progress and new renewable energy commitment that inform how we build our hardware products.
By Anna Meegan - Oct 15, 2019 Google Nest Boost your home's signal and style with Nest Wifi Nest Wifi provides reliable Wi-Fi coverage throughout your home with a powerful router and a Wi-Fi point with the Google Assistant.
By Sanjay Noronha - Oct 15, 2019 Pixel Buds Meet the new Google Pixel Buds The new Google Pixel Buds provide quality audio, a comfortable fit and sleek design and instant, hands-free help from the Google Assis… By Sandeep Waraich - Oct 15, 2019 Pixelbook More affordable and portable: let’s Pixelbook Go Google announces a new member of the Pixelbook family: Pixelbook Go.
By Ben Janofsky - Oct 15, 2019 Google Nest Nest Mini brings twice the bass and an upgraded Assistant Google’s new smart speaker, Nest Mini, brings the bass—and a faster Assistant.
By Mark Spates - Oct 15, 2019 Stadia Stadia arrives on November 19 If you pre-ordered and have received your Founder’s Editions, you can buy and play your favorite games starting Nov 19.
By John Justice - Oct 15, 2019 Google Nest Keep an eye (and ear) on your home with the new Nest Aware The new Nest Aware provides whole home awareness across more of your Nest devices at one affordable monthly rate, starting just at $6 … By Ruchi Desai - Oct 15, 2019 Google Nest Better privacy and more flexibility with Nest devices Google Nest is giving you new ways to work with more third-party partners, delivering better privacy and data security and flexibility… By Michele Turner - Oct 15, 2019 Pixel The latest Pixel 4 accessories Official Google Pixel 4 and Pixel 4 XL accessories featuring protective fabric cases and Made for Google fast, wireless chargers.
By Paul Osborne - Oct 16, 2019 Pixel Annie Leibovitz unveils photo series with Google Pixel Photos taken by Annie Leibovitz, using her Pixel.
By Adrienne Hayes - Oct 16, 2019 Google One New Google One benefits for Made By Google devices Google One members earn up to 10% back on Google Store purchases; Pixel 4 comes with 3 months of Google One plus access to Pro Sessions By Larissa Fontaine - Oct 17, 2019 Let’s stay in touch. Get the latest news from Google in your inbox.
Follow Us Privacy Terms About Google Google Products About the Keyword Help Deutsch English English (Africa) English (Australia) English (Canada) English (India) English (MENA) Español (Latinoamérica) Français (Canada) Français (France) Italiano Polski Português (Brasil) اللغة العربية (MENA)
