OII | Faculty Associates
2022
https://www.oii.ox.ac.uk/people/faculty-associates

Research Research Section Home Research Areas Digital Economies Digital Knowledge and Culture Digital Politics and Government Education, Digital Life and Wellbeing Ethics and Philosophy of Information Information Geography and Inequality Information Governance and Security Social Data Science Publications Projects Research Microsites Visitor Programme Study Study Section Home Our Programmes MSc in Social Data Science MSc in Social Science of the Internet DPhil in Social Data Science DPhil in Information, Communication and the Social Sciences Recognised Student Programme Study FAQs Open Days Summer Doctoral Programme SDP Tutors SDP Alumni Gallery People People Section Home OII People Faculty & Research Fellows Research Staff Senior Fellows DPhil Students MSc Students Administration Research Associates Advisory Board Visitors Faculty Associates Former Members of the OII Vacancies Equality, Diversity & Inclusion News & Events News & Events Section Home News Latest Reports Press Coverage Upcoming Events Videos & Event Recordings Follow Us About About Section Home Our History Our Founding Donor Giving to the Oxford Internet Institute The Shirley Scholars Fund Executive Education Information for Alumni Find Us Library Research Research Research Areas Digital Economies Digital Knowledge and Culture Digital Politics and Government Education, Digital Life and Wellbeing Ethics and Philosophy of Information Information Geography and Inequality Information Governance and Security Social Data Science Publications Projects Research Microsites Visitor Programme Study Study Our Programmes MSc in Social Data Science MSc in Social Science of the Internet DPhil in Social Data Science DPhil in Information, Communication and the Social Sciences Recognised Student Programme Study FAQs Open Days Summer Doctoral Programme SDP Tutors SDP Alumni Gallery People People OII People Faculty & Research Fellows Research Staff Senior Fellows DPhil Students MSc Students Administration Research Associates Advisory Board Visitors Faculty Associates Former Members of the OII Vacancies Equality, Diversity & Inclusion News & Events News & Events News Latest Reports Press Coverage Upcoming Events Videos & Event Recordings Follow Us About About Our History Our Founding Donor Giving to the Oxford Internet Institute The Shirley Scholars Fund Executive Education Information for Alumni Find Us Library OII > People > Faculty Associates OII > People > Faculty Associates The Oxford Internet Institute is a cross-disciplinary department, and our work overlaps with that of experts in many other University departments. Our faculty associates are academics involved in teaching and supervision at the OII.
Professor John Coleman Faculty of Linguistics, Philology and Phonetics, University of Oxford Professor Coleman’s research interests are in phonetics (especially acoustic phonetics), models of sound change, speech technology, laboratory phonology and computational linguistics.
Professor Min Chen Professor of Scientific Visualisation, Department of Engineering Science, University of Oxford Professor Chen teaches the Foundations of Visualization paper to MSc Social Science of the Internet and MSc Social Data Science students.
Dr William Kelly Institute of Social and Cultural Anthropology, University of Oxford Dr Kelly teaches the Digital Anthropology paper to MSc in Social Science of the Internet students.
Professor Janet Pierrehumbert Professor of Language Modelling, Oxford e-Research Centre, Dept. of Engineering Science., University of Oxford Professor Pierrehumbert's work has been widely influential in speech technology, psycholinguistics, and theories of language form and meaning.
Professor Melinda Mills University of Oxford Professor Gesine Reinert Department of Statistics, University of Oxford Dr Lindsay Richards Department of Sociology, University of Oxford Dr Richards is a quantitative sociologist with interests in social change, status, social cohesion, attitudes, and health and well-being Professor David Steinsaltz Department of Statistics, University of Oxford David Steinsalz is an Associate Professor in the Department of Statistics. His research is centred around biological and demographic questions connected with ageing and mortality.
Professor Jessie Daniels Professor of Sociology, City University of New York (CUNY) Jessie Daniels, PhD is a Professor of Sociology at the City University of New York (CUNY). She is an internationally recognized expert on internet manifestations of racism.
Dr Jonathan Bright Research Associate In 2022 Jonathan Bright became the Head of AI for Public Services at the Turing Institute, having previously been a faculty member of the OII. A political scientist, he specialises in computational and ‘big data’ approaches to the social sciences.
Dr Stefan Zohren Research Associate Stefan's research is focused on applied machine learning in finance. He collaborates with the OII on research and financial news networks and teaches the Machine Learning and Applied Machine Learning papers to MSc Social Data Science students.
Dr Xiaowen Dong Associate Professor of Engineering Science, Department of Engineering Science, University of Oxford Xiaowen Dong is an Associate Professor in the Department of Engineering Science, where he is an academic member of both the Machine Learning Research Group and the Oxford-Man Institute.
Professor David Zeitlyn Professor of Social Anthropology, Institute of Social and Cultural Anthropology, University of Oxford Dr Wendy Willems London School of Economics Dr Wendy Willems is Associate Professor and Deputy Head of the Department of Media and Communications at the London School of Economics and Political Science.
1 St Giles, Oxford, OX1 3JS, UK +44 (0)1865 287210 General: enquiries@oii.ox.ac.uk Press: press@oii.ox.ac.uk FOLLOW US: INFORMATION FOR: Prospective students Alumni Job seekers Media Policy makers We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website.
You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings.
Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies Google Analytics Privacy Overview This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookies moove_gdrp_popup - a cookie that saves your preferences for cookie settings. Without this cookie, the screen offering you cookie options will appear on every page you visit.
This cookie remains on your computer for 365 days, but you can adjust your preferences at any time by clicking on the "Cookie settings" link in the website footer.
Please note that if you visit the Oxford University website, any cookies you accept there will appear on our site here too, this being a subdomain. To control them, you must change your cookie preferences on the main University website.
Enable or Disable Cookies Google Analytics This website uses Google Tags and Google Analytics to collect anonymised information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping these cookies enabled helps the OII improve our website.
Enabling this option will allow cookies from: Google Analytics - tracking visits to the ox.ac.uk and oii.ox.ac.uk domains These cookies will remain on your website for 365 days, but you can edit your cookie preferences at any time via the "Cookie Settings" button in the website footer.
Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! GDPR Cookie Compliance
