OII | People
2022
https://www.oii.ox.ac.uk/people/research-associates

Research Research Section Home Research Areas Digital Economies Digital Knowledge and Culture Digital Politics and Government Education, Digital Life and Wellbeing Ethics and Philosophy of Information Information Geography and Inequality Information Governance and Security Social Data Science Publications Projects Research Microsites Visitor Programme Study Study Section Home Our Programmes MSc in Social Data Science MSc in Social Science of the Internet DPhil in Social Data Science DPhil in Information, Communication and the Social Sciences Recognised Student Programme Study FAQs Open Days Summer Doctoral Programme SDP Tutors SDP Alumni Gallery People People Section Home OII People Faculty & Research Fellows Research Staff Senior Fellows DPhil Students MSc Students Administration Research Associates Advisory Board Visitors Faculty Associates Former Members of the OII Vacancies Equality, Diversity & Inclusion News & Events News & Events Section Home News Latest Reports Press Coverage Upcoming Events Videos & Event Recordings Follow Us About About Section Home Our History Our Founding Donor Giving to the Oxford Internet Institute The Shirley Scholars Fund Executive Education Information for Alumni Find Us Library Research Research Research Areas Digital Economies Digital Knowledge and Culture Digital Politics and Government Education, Digital Life and Wellbeing Ethics and Philosophy of Information Information Geography and Inequality Information Governance and Security Social Data Science Publications Projects Research Microsites Visitor Programme Study Study Our Programmes MSc in Social Data Science MSc in Social Science of the Internet DPhil in Social Data Science DPhil in Information, Communication and the Social Sciences Recognised Student Programme Study FAQs Open Days Summer Doctoral Programme SDP Tutors SDP Alumni Gallery People People OII People Faculty & Research Fellows Research Staff Senior Fellows DPhil Students MSc Students Administration Research Associates Advisory Board Visitors Faculty Associates Former Members of the OII Vacancies Equality, Diversity & Inclusion News & Events News & Events News Latest Reports Press Coverage Upcoming Events Videos & Event Recordings Follow Us About About Our History Our Founding Donor Giving to the Oxford Internet Institute The Shirley Scholars Fund Executive Education Information for Alumni Find Us Library OII > People > People Show: Find a person: Research Associates Dr Grant Blank Research Associate Grant Blank's work focuses on the social and cultural implications of the Internet and new media, quantitative and qualitative methods, and cultural sociology. He taught on the OII social statistics courses.
Dr Piotr Blaszczyk Research Associate, Postdoctoral Researcher Dr Blaszczyk is a Postdoctoral Researcher at the Oxford Internet Institute. He is a computer scientist with experience in academia and years of leadership positions in the technology sector.
Fyonna Boateng Research Associate Fyonna Boateng is a Psychology undergraduate at the University of Reading. With Dr. Netta Weinstein, she is investigating public opinions of AI and its potential biases.
Dr Jonathan Bright Research Associate In 2022 Jonathan Bright became the Head of AI for Public Services at the Turing Institute, having previously been a faculty member of the OII. A political scientist, he specialises in computational and ‘big data’ approaches to the social sciences.
Dr Siân Brooke Research Associate Siân Brooke's research interests are largely within sociology and gender. Siân’s doctoral research focused on the construction of gendered identity on the pseudonymous web, and she is collaborating with Kathryn Eccles on feminist data science.
Dr Monica Bulger Research Associate Dr. Monica Bulger recently completed a Research Fellowship at the Oxford Internet Institute and is currently a consultant on child protection and digital media literacy for multi-national organisations including UNICEF and the BBC.
Dr Chico Camargo Research Associate Dr Chico Camargo is an interdisciplinary researcher who develops and applies computational tools to study complex systems, collective human behaviour, public opinion dynamics and culture change.
Dr Chris King Chi Chan Former Research Associate Chris Chan is an Associate Professor at the Department of Sociology, the Chinese University of Hong Kong, working with Mark Graham on the Fairwork project.
Dr Matthew Cole Research Associate Matthew Cole was a Postdoctoral Researcher with Fairwork, investigating global platforms. His research interests include the political economy of technology and platforms, particularly the transformation of work.
Dr Greetje (Gretta) Corporaal Research Associate Dr. Gretta Corporaal is a Sociologist of Work and Organizations, previously based at the Oxford Internet Institute, specializing in online labor platforms and the future of work and organizations in the digital economy.
Dr Mona Elswah Research Associate Mona Elswah is a Research Associate at the Oxford Internet Institute (OII), where she examines digital repression, collective actions, and disinformation in the Arab world Dr Patrick Feuerstein Former Research Associate Patrick Feuerstein is a Postdoctoral Research Fellow in the Fairwork Secretariat at the Social Science Research Center Berlin (WZB), working with Mark Graham.
Dr Aliaksandr Herasimenka Research Associate Aliaksandr is a political communication researcher and was Director of Research at the Programme on Democracy and Technology at the Oxford Internet Institute.
Dr Isis Hjorth Research Associate Isis is a cultural sociologist focusing on emerging practices related to networked technologies. She is currently researching microwork and virtual production networks in Sub-Saharan Africa and Southeast Asia with multiple colleagues at the OII.
Dr Kelle Howson Former Postdoctoral Researcher Dr Kelle Howson is a Research Associate on the Fairwork project. Kelle is a development geographer interested in how ethical certification is reshaping governance and power relations in global networks.
Dr Niklas Johannes Research Associate Niklas Johannes is a behavioural scientist. He worked as a postdoctoral researcher in the Adolescent Well-Being in the Digital Age programme, where he studied effects of technology on well-being and performance.
Dr Otto Kässi Research Associate Otto Kässi is a labour economist with a background in econometrics. His research concentrates on empirical study of online labour markets, as part of the iLabour project with Vili Lehdonvirta.
Dr Aleksi Knuutila Research Associate Aleksi Knuutila is an anthropologist and data scientist. He was working as a Postdoctoral Researcher in the Computational Propaganda programme, where he used computational and qualitative methods to study political communications and communities.
Tobias Kuttler Research Associate Tobias Kuttler is a Postdoctoral Research Fellow at the Fairwork Secretariat based at the Berlin Social Science Research Center (WZB), working with Dr Mark Graham.
Dr Kristoffer Magnusson Research Associate Kristoffer is a clinical psychologist at the Stockholm Centre for Psychiatry Research, Karolinska Institutet, Sweden. His work is mainly concerned with studying various aspects of gaming and gambling disorder, in collaboration with Andrew Przybylski.
Nahema Marchal Former Research Associate Nahema was a doctoral candidate at the Oxford Internet Institute and a researcher at the Computational Propaganda Project.
Dr Silvia Milano Former Research Associate Silvia is a philosopher interested mainly in epistemology and ethics of Artificial Intelligence, working with Dr Brent Mittelstadt.
Tom Nicholls Research Associate Tom Nicholls is a Research Associate at the Oxford Internet Institute studying the analysis of news texts using computational methods and the development of new methods for studying political behaviour online.
Dr Rasmus Kleis Nielsen Research Associate Along with Philip Howard, Dr Rasmus Kleis Nielsen is co-director of the Oxford Martin Programme on Misinformation, Science and Media.
Dr Myrto Pantazi Research Associate Myrto is a social psychologist with a background in psycholinguistics. She uses experimental methods to study social cognition. She is particularly interested in how people process and validate information as well as in their (conspiracy) beliefs.
Dr Chris Russell Dieter Schwarz Associate Professor, AI, Government & Policy., Research Associate Chris Russell is the Dieter Schwarz Associate Professor, AI, Government and Policy. Dr Russell’s work lies at the intersection of computer vision and responsible AI.
Dr Lulu P. Shi Research Associate Lulu Shi is a sociologist working on projects investigating the intersection between society and technology. Her research interests include digital sociology, sociology of education, work and employment.
Dr Arthur Thomas Research Associate Arthur Thomas is founder and CEO of Proteus Associates, a consultancy specialising in applying information technology to life sciences. Working with Ralph Schroeder, his current research explores predictive computational models of biological systems.
Dr Paul Timmers Research Associate Paul Timmers is an Associate Professor of Cybersecurity at the European University Cyprus. As a Research Associate at the OII, he is working with Mariarosaria Taddeo on the impact of AI on the sovereignty and autonomy of state actors.
Bertram Vidgen Research Associate Bertram Vidgen's research focuses on far-right extremism in online contexts. An alumnus of the OII DPhil programme, he is engaged in ongoing collaborative research as a member of the Public Policy Programme at the Turing Institute.
Dr Matti Vuorre Research Associate Matti Vuorre is an experimental psychologist. He applies his expertise in cognitive psychology and Bayesian modelling as a postdoctoral researcher in the Programme on Adolescent Well-Being in the Digital Age.
Dr Netta Weinstein Research Associate Netta Weinstein is a professor of clinical and social psychology at the University of Reading. She studies human motivation, behaviour and well-being in collaboration with Professors Wachter and Mittelstadt.
Dr Alex J Wood Research Associate Dr Wood is a sociologist of work and employment, focusing on the changing nature of employment relations and labour markets. As part of the iLabour project, he is currently researching worker voice, organisation and action in the online gig economy.
Dr Pu Yan Former MSc Student Dr Pu Yan is a researcher at Oxford Internet Institute. She is currently working on the project "What Do 'the People' Want?", which explores the use of digital media and the rise of populism in six countries using computational social science methods Dr Stefan Zohren Research Associate Stefan's research is focused on applied machine learning in finance. He collaborates with the OII on research and financial news networks and teaches the Machine Learning and Applied Machine Learning papers to MSc Social Data Science students.
1 St Giles, Oxford, OX1 3JS, UK +44 (0)1865 287210 General: enquiries@oii.ox.ac.uk Press: press@oii.ox.ac.uk FOLLOW US: INFORMATION FOR: Prospective students Alumni Job seekers Media Policy makers We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website.
You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings.
Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies Google Analytics Privacy Overview This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookies moove_gdrp_popup - a cookie that saves your preferences for cookie settings. Without this cookie, the screen offering you cookie options will appear on every page you visit.
This cookie remains on your computer for 365 days, but you can adjust your preferences at any time by clicking on the "Cookie settings" link in the website footer.
Please note that if you visit the Oxford University website, any cookies you accept there will appear on our site here too, this being a subdomain. To control them, you must change your cookie preferences on the main University website.
Enable or Disable Cookies Google Analytics This website uses Google Tags and Google Analytics to collect anonymised information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages. Keeping these cookies enabled helps the OII improve our website.
Enabling this option will allow cookies from: Google Analytics - tracking visits to the ox.ac.uk and oii.ox.ac.uk domains These cookies will remain on your website for 365 days, but you can edit your cookie preferences at any time via the "Cookie Settings" button in the website footer.
Enable or Disable Cookies Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences! GDPR Cookie Compliance
