Photogearing as a concept for translation of precise motions at the nanoscale | Nature Chemistry
2022
https://www.nature.com/articles/s41557-022-00917-0

Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles and JavaScript.
Advertisement View all journals Search Log in Explore content About the journal Publish with us Sign up for alerts RSS feed nature nature chemistry articles article Download PDF Article Published: 18 April 2022 Photogearing as a concept for translation of precise motions at the nanoscale Aaron Gerwien 1 , Frederik Gnannt 2 , Peter Mayer 1 & … Henry Dube ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0002-5055-9924 2 Show authors Nature Chemistry volume 14 , pages 670–676 ( 2022 ) Cite this article 4348 Accesses 18 Citations 145 Altmetric Metrics details Subjects Molecular machines and motors Organic chemistry Photochemistry Abstract One of the major challenges for harnessing the true potential of functional nano-machinery is integrating and transmitting motion with great precision. Molecular gearing systems enable the integration of multiple motions in a correlated fashion to translate motions from one locality to another and to change their speed and direction. However, currently no powerful methods exist to implement active driving of gearing motions at the molecular scale. Here we present a light-fuelled molecular gearing system and demonstrate its superiority over passive thermally activated gearing. Translation of a 180° rotation into a 120° rotation is achieved while at the same time the direction of the rotation axis is shifted by 120°. Within such photogearing processes, precise motions at the nanoscale can be changed in direction and decelerated in a manner similar to macroscopic bevel-gear operations in an energy consuming way—a necessary prerequisite to employ gearing as an active component in future mechanical nano-systems.
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Download PDF Download PDF Main Control of molecular motions represents the basis for virtually all application-driven chemistry fields, but especially for building molecular machines and functional nanotechnology from the bottom up 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5.
 Substantial progress has been made in this endeavour with the developments of molecular switches 6 , rotors 7 , 8 , walkers 9 , 10 , gyroscopes, or pumps 11 , 12 and especially motors 13 , 14 , 15 , 16 , 17 , 18 , 19 , 20 , 21 , 22 , 23 , 24 , 25 , 26 , 27.
 However, at present a standing challenge for further advances is the integration, transmission and translation of molecular motions with the greatest precision 28 , 29 , 30.
 Due to the presence of the ‘Brownian storm’, defined motions at molecular scales are very effectively equilibrated and randomized. Long-range coupling and scaling up 31 , 32 , 33 , 34 , 35 , 36 , translation of one defined motion into another one 37 , 38 , 39 , 40 , 41 , or even power-stroke mechanisms 42 are therefore inherently difficult tasks at nanometre sizes. One important fundamental concept that should be considered for translating small scale motions is molecular gearing 7 , 43 , 44 , 45 in which intermeshed molecular fragments move in concert with each other. However, different from the macroscopic world, gearing processes are exceptionally hard to realize in the molecular world as here friction and inertia do not play an important role. As a consequence, slipping processes that evade true gearing are the rule rather than the exception even in highly intermeshed and sterically hindered molecular systems 7.
So far, mechanically controlled molecular systems have been developed, ranging from more simple molecular brakes 46 , 47 to truly geared systems in which different molecular fragments or entities move in concert because of their tight intermeshing (see refs.
48 , 49 , 50 , 51 , 52 , 53 for selected examples). More recent progress has allowed switching of gearing in an ON/OFF fashion 54.
 Related molecular systems are able to control the speed of a particular sub-motion via switching processes 55 , 56.
 However, to the best of our knowledge functional gearing systems put forward so far are not powered directly by an energy source, although most recent efforts are moving in this direction 57 , 58.
 Instead, their motions are the result of thermal fluctuations and thus they are intrinsically passive and non-directional.
In this Article, we present a novel concept enabling energy powered molecular gearing (Fig.
1 ). Visible light is used as an energy source, actively fuelling different gearing processes at the nanoscale within hemithioindigo 59 , 60 (HTI)-photogear 1.
 We directly show that, different to a thermal gearing process, photogearing can be by far the dominating motion within a molecular framework. At the same time, translation of a 180° double bond isomerization (DBI) into a 120° single bond rotation (SBR) is achieved by the employed bevel-gearing mechanism. Thus, a highly challenging precision shift in the motion character (two-step to three-step for a full rotation) as well as spatial reorientation (120° angling) of the powered motion is demonstrated with our molecular system. We expect great prospects for the concept of photogearing, which allows the problems of thermal gearing systems to be alleviated and enables direct fuelling of geared motions and the precise shifting of molecular motions. Such precision control at the smallest scales will be of great value to anyone interested in using ordered motions for governing functions in chemical/nano systems. Therefore, this approach will strongly facilitate future research in many fields, not least in integrated nanomachinery.
a , Previous work on thermally induced molecular gearing: (i) 1:1 bevel gear, (ii) 1:1 spur gear, (iii) and (iv) molecular gearing in the solid state.
b , Previous work on control of molecular rotation or gearing processes and related correlated molecular motions: (i) responsive molecular brake (M, for example, Hg), (ii) light-induced switching OFF of thermal gearing, (iii) locked synchronous rotation in a molecular motor.
c , HTI-photogear 1 represents a molecular 2:3 bevel gear undergoing simultaneous rotation of the double bond (red) and the adjacent single bond (blue) upon irradiation. As a result, the E to Z photoisomerization (180° rotation) is coupled to a 120° rotation of the adjacent triptycene fragment. Photogearing is evidenced directly by quantifying light-induced interconversions between thermally stable individual diastereomers of 1.
Full size image Results and discussion Conformational analysis HTI-based molecular gearing system 1 inherits a highly intermeshed non-symmetric triptycene moiety, which is introduced as a fourth substituent next to a p -anisole at the photoisomerizable double bond (Fig.
1c ). Due to the close proximity of the thioindigo and triptycene molecular fragments, their effective intermeshing is achieved. The p -anisole substitution was used mainly for two reasons: (1) to increase steric hindrance in the system via a demanding phenyl substituent geminal to the triptycene and (2) to add electron density to the chromophore system (especially via the methoxy substituent) for shifting absorption in the visible region of the electromagnetic spectrum and generally improving photochemical responses. The synthesis of this sterically strongly hindered system was accomplished using a recently reported method developed in our laboratory for the synthesis of sterically crowded HTI motors, proceeding in eight linear steps (see Supplementary Section 1 ) 61.
HTI-photogear 1 can adopt six distinct states. Three triptycene rotamers are accessible in both Z and E isomeric forms. Based on the symmetry of the triptycene fragment, two of the three states represent enantiomers and thus are not readily observed with classical spectroscopy methods, resulting in four distinct diastereomeric states overall. However, for the elucidation of different possible rotations and particularly the gearing processes it was not necessary to study individual enantiomers as both give rise to the same behaviour. We label the four distinct isomers (depicted in Fig.
2 ) as A , rac - B (comprised of B and enantiomeric B′ ), C and rac - D (comprised of D and enantiomeric D′ ). Isomers A and rac - B inherit a Z -configured isomerizable double bond and correspondingly isomers C and rac - D inherit an E- configured double bond. Crystals suitable for X-ray analysis were obtained for isomers A and C , facilitating direct assignment of solution spectral species (Fig.
2a ). A detailed analysis of solution NMR spectra allowed us to further assign individual signals to the isomer structures (Supplementary Section 2 ).
a , Structures of isomers A and C in the crystalline state. Space-filling depictions were chosen to illustrate the significant intermeshing of the thioindigo and triptycene fragments. White, hydrogen; grey, carbon; red, oxygen; yellow, sulfur.
b , Four different isomers are observable by conventional spectroscopy: A with a Z -configured central double bond, racemic isomer rac - B with a Z -configured double bond and the corresponding isomers C and rac - D , both with E -configured double bonds. Only interconversions between rotamers A and rac - B as well as between C and rac - D are observed as thermally activated processes (Δ) at ambient temperatures.
c , Kinetics of the selective thermal interconversion between rotamers rac - B and A at −10 °C as measured by 1 H NMR spectroscopy.
d , Kinetics of the selective thermal interconversion between rotamers rac - D and C at 15 °C as measured by 1 H NMR spectroscopy. Kinetic analysis gives the corresponding Gibbs energies of activation.
e , Ground-state energy profile for HTI-photogear 1 with all values corresponding to 30 °C (either measured at that temperature directly (isomer conversion rac - D to C ) or extrapolated from Eyring and van’t Hoff plot analyses (isomer conversions rac - B to A and E to Z )).
Source data Full size image As outlined in Figs.
1 – 3 , the molecular setup of HTI-photogear 1 allows coupled gearing motions to be distinguished from sole uncoupled/slipping bond rotations, as each process leads to interconversion between two different isomeric states. For example, a gearing motion between the triptycene fragment and the thioindigo fragment can directly be observed as a concomitant transition from isomer A to rac - D or from isomer C to rac - B (example shown in Fig.
1c ) and vice versa. For animated visualizations of exemplary gearing motions leading from isomer C to isomer B′ (clockwise motion of the double bond), from isomer C to the enantiomeric isomer B (anticlockwise motion of the double bond), from isomer D to isomer A (clockwise motion of the double bond), or from isomer D to isomer B′ (anticlockwise motion of the double bond), see Supplementary Videos 1 – 4 , respectively. On the other hand, sole SBR of the triptycene fragment would result in interconversion between isomers A and rac - B or between isomers C and rac - D and sole DBI would lead to interconversion between isomers A and C or suitable enantiomers of rac - B and rac - D.
 However, conversion from isomer rac - B to rac - D and vice versa would be ambiguous as, in this case, a sole DBI and a gearing motion would lead to a population of different respective enantiomers, which are not distinguished by conventional spectroscopy.
Thermal properties A first thermal analysis of the HTI-photogear system 1 was conducted experimentally to elucidate its ground-state energy profile and the corresponding thermally activated motions (Fig.
2b–e ). To this end, 1 H NMR spectroscopy was used as the analytical tool allowing individual isomer concentration changes to be monitored directly at different temperatures in the dark (for corresponding spectra and kinetic analyses see Supplementary Sections 4.1 and 4.2 ). Pronounced heating of an E -isomer-enriched C 2 D 2 Cl 4 solution at elevated temperatures (120–145 °C) over prolonged time produced different equilibrium mixtures. For temperatures between 120 and 135 °C, the four isomers A , rac - B , C and rac - D could still be distinguished in the 1 H NMR spectrum and their respective ratios could be determined. Using the relationship between the equilibrium constant and the standard Gibbs free energy change, the corresponding energy differences (Δ G ) between isomers C and A (as the most stable isomers of each double bond configuration E and Z , respectively) were obtained. Extrapolation to 30 °C gave Δ G = 1.36 kcal mol −1 between C and A isomers. Kinetic analyses of the thermal E to Z conversions at different temperatures allowed the corresponding Gibbs energy of activation Δ G ‡ = 38.9 kcal mol −1 for this process at 30 °C to be obtained by extrapolation.
Separate thermal isomer interconversion experiments for either Z - or E -configured rotamers were conducted at different lower temperatures in CD 2 Cl 2 solution (Fig.
2b–d and Supplementary Section 4.1 ). They revealed isomer A to be the thermodynamically most stable state overall. Additionally, a highly selective conversion between exclusively isomers rac - B and A takes place. When starting from a rac - B -enriched solution, thermal activation at temperatures between −10 and 80 °C in the dark only leads to a population of isomer A , providing evidence for sole SBR around the triptycene-connecting single bond. The different final equilibrium ratios of A : rac - B at the different measurement temperatures established an energy difference between the degenerated energy levels of rac - B and A of 0.62 kcal mol −1 (extrapolated to 30 °C). Kinetic analysis of this thermal SBR at different temperatures gave the corresponding Gibbs energies of activation and a value of Δ G ‡ = 20.8 kcal mol −1 was obtained for this motion at 30 °C. Similarly, the thermal behaviour of the E -configured isomers C and rac - D was scrutinized at different temperatures between 10 and 80 °C in CD 2 Cl 2 solution. Again, thermal interconversion between only these two isomers takes place and the degenerated energy levels of rac - D were found to be 0.71 kcal mol −1 higher in energy compared to those of C at 30 °C. An associated Gibbs energy of activation Δ G ‡ = 22.2 kcal mol −1 was determined for this thermal SBR. Taking these data together, the whole ground-state energy profile of HTI-photogear 1 could experimentally be quantified (Fig.
2e ). It was further found that exclusively slipping motions—that is sole SBRs around the triptycene axis and no coupled gearing motions between the triptycene and thioindigo fragment—are present under thermal activation. The thermal slipping of triptycene-containing molecular gear systems is a frequently observed phenomenon, which often interferes with or even outcompetes the desired gearing processes—a problem that lies at the heart of molecular gear research and has recently received fresh attention 7 , 43 , 50 , 62 , 63 , 64.
Photophysical and photochemical properties The photophysical and photochemical properties of HTI-photogear 1 were determined next. The individual absorptions of isomers A , rac - B , C and rac - D in different solvents show pronounced absorptions in the visible range of the electromagnetic spectrum and a rather weak negative photochromism ( E -configured isomers C and rac - D possess slightly hypsochromic absorption compared to the Z -configured isomers A and rac - B ; spectra are shown in Supplementary Section 4.3 ). The negative photochromism of 1 reflects the typical behaviour of HTI photoswitches where isomers with the aromatic substituent ( p -anisole in this case) in cis relation to the carbonyl (isomers A and rac - B ) possess red-shifted absorption compared to isomers with a trans relation of these groups (isomers C and rac - D ) 59.
 Due to weak photochromism and similar quantum yields (see below), photoirradiation with 420 nm light produces a photostationary state with all isomers present, that is a ratio of A : rac - B : C : rac - D = 20:48:6:26 at −40 °C. Under continuous irradiation all isomers can thus undergo photoreactions as they all absorb the incoming light. For a gearing system such behaviour is, in general, advantageous as it allows continuous operation under irradiation with single wavelength light. However, up to three different productive transformation processes leading to different isomer interconversions—and corresponding different modes of motion—are possible for each isomer.
Therefore, to obtain quantitative insights into the actual light-induced motions of HTI-photogear 1 it was necessary to elucidate the individual isomer photoreactions. To this end we used a Markov-matrix kinetic analysis (Fig.
3a ), similar to a previously reported methodology 19 , 65 , in combination with measurements of the initially produced photoproducts. In this approach, solutions significantly enriched in each isomer are needed as the starting points of irradiation experiments. Selective isomer enrichment was possible either by crystallization to enrich isomers A and C , or by low-temperature (−30 °C) HPLC separation and isolation of thermally labile isomers rac - B and rac - D prior to the actual irradiation experiments, as outlined in detail in Supplementary Section 4.5.
 In this way we could establish four different starting points for irradiations with either 95% A , 64% rac - B , 94% C , or 72% rac - D being present initially. Two additional isomeric mixtures were used to create two more distinct starting points (Supplementary Figs.
66 and 69 ). These different CD 2 Cl 2 solutions were cooled to –40 °C to inhibit any thermally activated bond rotations within HTI-photogear 1 , which could otherwise overshadow the pure photochemical behaviour. Irradiation at –40 °C was conducted inside the NMR spectrometer with the aid of a fibre-coupled 420 nm light-emitting diode and the progress of isomerization was followed by measuring 1 H NMR spectra at one-minute time intervals (Fig.
3b–e ). In this way the photoconversion kinetics could be followed in detail over prolonged irradiation times without interference from thermal reactions. The relative propensities for isomer interconversions could be obtained directly from Markov-matrix analysis and simulation of the kinetic data (Supplementary Sections 4.5 and 4.6 ). Very good agreement of simulated conversions and experimental data was obtained for this analysis. These results unequivocally show significant photogearing for both Z - and E -isomeric 1.
 For the E -isomeric rotamer C , photogearing is in fact the dominating process. Isomer C undergoes photogearing with more than twofold higher propensity than the combined sole DBI of the thioindigo fragment and sole SBR of the triptycene moiety. This behaviour is obvious even without Markov-matrix analysis as irradiation of the C- enriched solution leads to a very steep increase in the concentration of the rac - B isomer (the photogearing product) compared to the much slower changes for all other isomers.
a , Measured quantum yields for the photoconversions of individual isomers of HTI-photogear 1.
 The thickness of the arrows indicates the relative conversion propensities. Photoreactions, using in situ irradiation within the NMR spectrometer, were measured by 1 H NMR (400 MHz) spectroscopy in CD 2 Cl 2 solution at −40 °C. Photoquantum yields for Z to E conversions and vice versa were measured using a combined method of photon counting and 1 H NMR (400 MHz) spectroscopy in CD 2 Cl 2.
 Afterwards, the conversion propensities of individual isomers were scaled to the quantum yields measured for DBI. The panel on the left meets the middle of the skewed panel on the right to signify that photoreactions from A and C lead to populations of both pairs of enantiomers ( B / B′ and D / D′ ).
b – e , Experimental (points) and simulated (lines) kinetics of the photoconversion of mainly isomer A ( b ), mainly isomer rac - B ( c ), mainly isomer C ( d ) and mainly isomer rac - D ( e ). Isomer A is shown in black, isomer rac - B is shown in red, isomer C is shown in orange and isomer rac - D is shown in blue.
f , Quantum-yield measurements of Z (black circles) to E (red circles) photoisomerization by the initial-slope method.
g , Quantum-yield measurements of E (red circles) to Z (black circles) photoisomerization by the initial-slope method.
Source data Full size image To obtain absolute values for the different photoconversion processes, quantum yields were measured at −40 °C (Fig.
3f,g ). For this purpose a combination of photon counting and 1 H NMR spectroscopy was used to quantify the photoconversions between Z - and E- isomeric 1 (for details see Supplementary Sections 4.7 and 4.8 ). When taking into account the relative photoconversion propensities as elucidated by Markov-matrix analysis, the quantum yields for all observable photoisomerization reactions within HTI-photogear 1 could be obtained. For all photoconversion processes, sizeable quantum yields of up to 6.8% were obtained as shown in Fig.
3a.
 As can be seen from the data, slipping motions are dominant in the Z -configured isomers leading to pronounced sole DBI ( ϕ ( A to C ) = 2%) and SBR ( ϕ ( A to rac - B ) = 5.9% and ϕ ( rac - B to A ) = 0.8%) in isomers A and rac - B.
 Nevertheless, a clear propensity for a photogearing motion is also observed, in which both the central double bond and the adjacent single bond connecting to the triptycene fragment are rotated at the same time by 180° and 120°, respectively. This motion leads to conversion from A to rac - D or from rac - B to C with quantum yields of ϕ ( A to rac - D ) = 2% and ϕ ( rac - B to C ) = 0.4%. The ambiguous motion from rac - B to rac - D occurs with ϕ ( rac - B to rac - D ) = 2%.
In the E -configured isomers C and rac - D , photogearing is much more pronounced and the slipping motions are reduced significantly. For isomer C , DBI and SBR are decreased to ϕ ( C to A ) = 1.4% for the former and ϕ ( C to rac - D ) = 1.6% for the latter. For isomer rac - D , the corresponding quantum yield for SBR is ϕ ( rac - D to C ) = 0.3%. The photogearing motion between the central double bond and the adjacent single bond connecting to the triptycene fragment is most pronounced and dominant for isomer C , which has the highest overall quantum yield, ϕ ( C to rac - B ) = 6.8%, measured in this system. The corresponding photogearing motion is also quite pronounced in the rac - D isomer with a quantum yield of ϕ ( rac - D to A ) = 2.2%. For the rac - D isomer, the ambiguous motion from rac - D to rac - B occurs with ϕ ( rac - D to rac - B ) = 3%. Photoinduced SBRs between the enantiomers of rac - B and rac - D (indicated by dashed grey arrows in Fig.
3a ) are not visible in the experiments conducted.
Taking these numbers together, a clear influence of the starting geometry on the effectiveness of photogearing can thus be discerned in HTI-photogear system 1.
 In the E -isomeric forms, photogearing represents a strongly favoured process, as is directly observed for isomer C , for which all other possible photoconversion pathways are unambiguously discernible. For the other E- configured rac - D isomer, photogearing is also observed as the preferred photoconversion pathway. In this case the total quantum yield for photogearing could even be higher if suitable enantiomers of rac - B and rac - D interconvert (indicated with grey diagonal arrows in Fig.
3a ). This photogearing selectivity of the E isomers can in part be attributed to better intermeshing of the carbonyl group within the triptycene pocket. For the Z -isomeric states the sulfur atom establishes an inferior intermeshing between the thioindigo and triptycene fragments, which is directly observed by comparison of the molecular structures of A and C in the crystalline state (Fig.
2a ). However, electronic effects are likely to also play an important role as steric hindrance and intermeshing in HTI-photogear 1 is clearly not enough to allow thermal gearing to have any effect. Therefore, a distinctly different behaviour between ground state and excited state motions is observed, indicating a mechanistically different origin of the corresponding molecular rotations.
When comparing total quantum yields it becomes apparent that both Z and E isomers behave similarly and about 10% overall photoisomerization quantum yield is obtained for both A and C.
 Since the SBR photoreactions of isomers rac - B and rac - D are obscured their total quantum yields are not known for comparison. However, it is interesting to note that the position of the triptycene moiety influences the propensity to undergo a specific photoreaction. Comparing isomer C with rac - D for example, photogearing proceeds with 6.8% quantum yield for the former, while for the latter only a maximum of 5.2% is possible (if ϕ ( rac - D to rac - B ) = 3.0% is fully allocated to photogearing). Additionally, SBR for the conversion from C to rac - D is significantly more effective (1.6%) than the reverse reaction (0.3%). Similarly, SBR from A to rac - B is also much more efficient (5.9%) than the reverse reaction (0.8%). Again, electronic effects are expected to strongly affect these processes since the triptycene blades are electronically distinct due to their substitutions.
Conclusions In summary, we have demonstrated a distinct and potent concept—photogearing—for actively powering the precise translation of molecular motions. In our HTI-photogearing system 1 , the 180° rotation of a planar thioindigo fragment is translated into a 120° rotation of a non-symmetric triptycene fragment. Therefore, a two-to-three translation of molecular motions is achieved by the correlated gearing process. At the same time the geared motions of the two molecular fragments are angled by about 120°, similar to macroscopic bevel-gear arrangements. The gearing motion is actively driven by the energy input of blue light irradiation and is shown to be dominating the light-induced rotations of E- configured isomers. By contrast, the thermal behaviour is distinctly different and only slipping motions, that is uncorrelated motions between individual molecular fragments, are observed. Thus, with photogearing it is possible to establish effective and actively powered gearing motions at the nanoscale using light as external fuel. We are convinced that more sophisticated gearing systems can now be devised that translate precise molecular motions over longer distances, in different directions and with different speeds akin to integrated macroscopic gearing systems. Our study provides a distinct method for manipulating precise molecular motions and should open up a plethora of new possibilities and design concepts for the creation of future integrated nano-machinery. Our current efforts are further directed at establishing directionality in photogearing processes.
Data availability All data supporting the findings of this study are available in the Article and the associated Supplementary Information files; the same data can also be obtained from the corresponding author on reasonable request. The X-ray crystallographic coordinates for the structures 1 ( A ) and 1 ( C ) reported in this study have been deposited at the Cambridge Crystallographic Data Centre (CCDC), under CCDC numbers 2086150 ( 1 ( A )) and 2086149 ( 1 ( C )). These data can be obtained free of charge from the Cambridge Crystallographic Data Centre via www.ccdc.cam.ac.uk/data_request/cif.
Source data are provided with this paper.
References Sauvage, J. P. From chemical topology to molecular machines (Nobel lecture).
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.
56 , 11080–11093 (2017).
Article CAS Google Scholar Stoddart, J. F. Mechanically interlocked molecules (MIMs)—molecular shuttles, switches, and machines (Nobel Lecture).
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.
56 , 11094–11125 (2017).
Article CAS Google Scholar Erbas-Cakmak, S., Leigh, D. A., McTernan, C. T. & Nussbaumer, A. L. Artificial molecular machines.
Chem. Rev.
115 , 10081–10206 (2015).
Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Kay, E. R., Leigh, D. A. & Zerbetto, F. Synthetic molecular motors and mechanical machines.
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.
46 , 72–191 (2007).
Article CAS Google Scholar Vogelsberg, C. S. & Garcia-Garibay, M. A. Crystalline molecular machines: function, phase order, dimensionality, and composition.
Chem. Soc. Rev.
41 , 1892–1910 (2012).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Harris, J. D., Moran, M. J. & Aprahamian, I. New molecular switch architectures.
Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 115 , 9414–9422 (2018).
Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Kottas, G. S., Clarke, L. I., Horinek, D. & Michl, J. Artificial molecular rotors.
Chem. Rev.
105 , 1281–1376 (2005).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Michl, J. & Sykes, E. C. H. Molecular rotors and motors: recent advances and future challenges.
ACS Nano 3 , 1042–1048 (2009).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar von Delius, M., Geertsema, E. M. & Leigh, D. A. A synthetic small molecule that can walk down a track.
Nat. Chem.
2 , 96–101 (2010).
Article CAS Google Scholar Barrell, M. J., Campana, A. G., von Delius, M., Geertsema, E. M. & Leigh, D. A. Light-driven transport of a molecular walker in either direction along a molecular track.
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.
50 , 285–290 (2011).
Article CAS Google Scholar Cheng, C. et al. An artificial molecular pump.
Nat. Nanotechnol.
10 , 547–553 (2015).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Qiu, Y. et al. A precise polyrotaxane synthesizer.
Science 368 , 1247–1253 (2020).
Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Koumura, N., Zijlstra, R. W. J., van Delden, R. A. & Feringa, B. L. Light-driven monodirectional molecular rotor.
Nature 401 , 152–155 (1999).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Hernandez, J. V., Kay, E. R. & Leigh, D. A. A reversible synthetic rotary molecular motor.
Science 306 , 1532–1537 (2004).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Greb, L. & Lehn, J. M. Light-driven molecular motors: imines as four-step or two-step unidirectional rotors.
J. Am. Chem. Soc.
136 , 13114–13117 (2014).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Haberhauer, G. A molecular four-stroke motor.
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.
50 , 6415–6418 (2011).
Article CAS Google Scholar Tierney, H. L. et al. Experimental demonstration of a single-molecule electric motor.
Nat. Nanotechnol.
6 , 625–629 (2011).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Guentner, M. et al. Sunlight-powered kHz rotation of a hemithioindigo-based molecular motor.
Nat. Commun.
6 , 8406 (2015).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Gerwien, A., Mayer, P. & Dube, H. Photon-only molecular motor with reverse temperature-dependent efficiency.
J. Am. Chem. Soc.
140 , 16442–16445 (2018).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Gerwien, A., Mayer, P. & Dube, H. Green light powered molecular state motor enabling eight-shaped unidirectional rotation.
Nat. Commun.
10 , 4449 (2019).
Article PubMed PubMed Central CAS Google Scholar Kassem, S. et al. Artificial molecular motors.
Chem. Soc. Rev.
46 , 2592–2621 (2017).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Roke, D., Wezenberg, S. J. & Feringa, B. L. Molecular rotary motors: unidirectional motion around double bonds.
Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 115 , 9423–9431 (2018).
Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Kistemaker, H. A., Stacko, P., Visser, J. & Feringa, B. L. Unidirectional rotary motion in achiral molecular motors.
Nat. Chem.
7 , 890–896 (2015).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Fletcher, S. P., Dumur, F., Pollard, M. M. & Feringa, B. L. A reversible, unidirectional molecular rotary motor driven by chemical energy.
Science 310 , 80–82 (2005).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Wilson, M. R. et al. An autonomous chemically fuelled small-molecule motor.
Nature 534 , 235–240 (2016).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Erbas-Cakmak, S. et al. Rotary and linear molecular motors driven by pulses of a chemical fuel.
Science 358 , 340–343 (2017).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Perera, U. G. E. et al. Controlled clockwise and anticlockwise rotational switching of a molecular motor.
Nat. Nanotechnol.
8 , 46–51 (2013).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Aprahamian, I. The future of molecular machines.
ACS Cent. Sci.
6 , 347–358 (2020).
Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar van Leeuwen, T., Lubbe, A. S., Štacko, P., Wezenberg, S. J. & Feringa, B. L. Dynamic control of function by light-driven molecular motors.
Nat. Rev. Chem.
1 , 0096 (2017).
Article CAS Google Scholar Goswami, A., Saha, S., Biswas, P. K. & Schmittel, M. (Nano)mechanical motion triggered by metal coordination: from functional devices to networked multicomponent catalytic machinery.
Chem. Rev.
120 , 125–199 (2020).
Eelkema, R. et al. Molecular machines: nanomotor rotates microscale objects.
Nature 440 , 163 (2006).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Chen, J. et al. Artificial muscle-like function from hierarchical supramolecular assembly of photoresponsive molecular motors.
Nat. Chem.
10 , 132–138 (2018).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Berna, J. et al. Macroscopic transport by synthetic molecular machines.
Nat. Mater.
4 , 704–710 (2005).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Boelke, J. & Hecht, S. Designing molecular photoswitches for soft materials applications.
Adv. Optical Mater.
7 , 1900404 (2019).
Article CAS Google Scholar Li, Q. et al. Macroscopic contraction of a gel induced by the integrated motion of light-driven molecular motors.
Nat. Nanotechnol.
10 , 161–165 (2015).
Article PubMed CAS Google Scholar Dattler, D. et al. Design of collective motions from synthetic molecular switches, rotors, and motors.
Chem. Rev.
120 , 310–433 (2020).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Pizzolato, S. F. et al. Central-to-helical-to-axial-to-central transfer of chirality with a photoresponsive catalyst.
J. Am. Chem. Soc.
140 , 17278–17289 (2018).
Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Štacko, P. et al. Locked synchronous rotor motion in a molecular motor.
Science 356 , 964–968 (2017).
Article PubMed CAS Google Scholar Uhl, E., Thumser, S., Mayer, P. & Dube, H. Transmission of unidirectional molecular motor rotation to a remote biaryl axis.
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.
57 , 11064–11068 (2018).
Article CAS Google Scholar Uhl, E., Mayer, P. & Dube, H. Active and unidirectional acceleration of biaryl rotation by a molecular motor.
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.
59 , 5730–5737 (2020).
Article CAS Google Scholar Muraoka, T., Kinbara, K. & Aida, T. Mechanical twisting of a guest by a photoresponsive host.
Nature 440 , 512–515 (2006).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Astumian, R. D. Trajectory and cycle-based thermodynamics and kinetics of molecular machines: the importance of microscopic reversibility.
Acc. Chem. Res.
51 , 2653–2661 (2018).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Gakh, A. A., Sachleben, R. A. & Bryan, J. C. Molecular gearing systems.
Chemtech 27 , 26–33 (1997).
CAS Google Scholar Iwamura, H. & Mislow, K. Stereochemical consequences of dynamic gearing.
Acc. Chem. Res.
21 , 175–182 (1988).
Article CAS Google Scholar Liepuoniute, I., Jellen, M. J. & Garcia-Garibay, M. A. Correlated motion and mechanical gearing in amphidynamic crystalline molecular machines.
Chem. Sci.
11 , 12994–13007 (2020).
Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Kelly, T. R. et al. A molecular brake.
J. Am. Chem. Soc.
116 , 3657–3658 (1994).
Article CAS Google Scholar Yang, J.-S. et al. A pentiptycene-derived light-driven molecular brake.
Org. Lett.
10 , 2279–2282 (2008).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Perez-Estrada, S., Rodriguez-Molina, B., Maverick, E. F., Khan, S. I. & Garcia-Garibay, M. A. Throwing in a monkey wrench to test and determine geared motion in the dynamics of a crystalline one-dimensional (1D) columnar rotor array.
J. Am. Chem. Soc.
141 , 2413–2420 (2019).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Rodriguez-Molina, B. et al. Anisochronous dynamics in a crystalline array of steroidal molecular rotors: evidence of correlated motion within 1D helical domains.
J. Am. Chem. Soc.
133 , 7280–7283 (2011).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Frantz, D. K., Linden, A., Baldridge, K. K. & Siegel, J. S. Molecular spur gears comprising triptycene rotators and bibenzimidazole-based stators.
J. Am. Chem. Soc.
134 , 1528–1535 (2012).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Kawada, Y. & Iwamura, H. Unconventional synthesis and conformational flexibility of bis(1-triptycyl) ether.
J. Org. Chem.
45 , 2547–2548 (1980).
Article CAS Google Scholar Hounshell, W. D., Johnson, C. A., Guenzi, A., Cozzi, F. & Mislow, K. Stereochemical consequences of dynamic gearing in substituted bis(9-triptycyl) methanes and related molecules.
Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 77 , 6961–6964 (1980).
Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Lemouchi, C. et al. Crystalline arrays of pairs of molecular rotors: correlated motion, rotational barriers, and space-inversion symmetry breaking due to conformational mutations.
J. Am. Chem. Soc.
135 , 9366–9376 (2013).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Ube, H., Yasuda, Y., Sato, H. & Shionoya, M. Metal-centred azaphosphatriptycene gear with a photo- and thermally driven mechanical switching function based on coordination isomerism.
Nat. Commun.
8 , 14296 (2017).
Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Lubbe, A. S., Ruangsupapichat, N., Caroli, G. & Feringa, B. L. Control of rotor function in light-driven molecular motors.
J. Org. Chem.
76 , 8599–8610 (2011).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Ter Wiel, M. K., van Delden, R. A., Meetsma, A. & Feringa, B. L. Control of rotor motion in a light-driven molecular motor: towards a molecular gearbox.
Org. Biomol. Chem.
3 , 4071–4076 (2005).
Article PubMed CAS Google Scholar Abid, S. et al. Desymmetrised pentaporphyrinic gears mounted on metallo-organic anchors.
Chem. Sci.
12 , 4709–4721 (2021).
Article CAS PubMed PubMed Central Google Scholar Lin, H. H., Croy, A., Gutierrez, R., Joachim, C. & Cuniberti, G. Current-induced rotations of molecular gears.
J. Phys. Commun.
3 , 025011 (2019).
Article CAS Google Scholar Wiedbrauk, S. & Dube, H. Hemithioindigo—an emerging photoswitch.
Tetrahedron Lett.
56 , 4266–4274 (2015).
Article CAS Google Scholar Petermayer, C. & Dube, H. Indigoid photoswitches: visible light responsive molecular tools.
Acc. Chem. Res.
51 , 1153–1163 (2018).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Huber, L. A. et al. Direct observation of hemithioindigo-motor unidirectionality.
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.
56 , 14536–14539 (2017).
Article CAS Google Scholar Jiang, Y. & Chen, C.-F. Recent developments in synthesis and applications of triptycene and pentiptycene derivatives.
Eur. J. Org. Chem.
2011 , 6377–6403 (2011).
Article CAS Google Scholar Jiang, X., Yang, S., Jellen, M. J., Houk, K. N. & Garcia-Garibay, M. Molecular spur gears with triptycene rotators and a norbornane-based stator.
Org. Lett.
22 , 4049–4052 (2020).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Jellen, M. J. et al. Enhanced gearing fidelity achieved through macrocyclization of a solvated molecular spur gear.
J. Am. Chem. Soc.
143 , 7740–7747 (2021).
Article CAS PubMed Google Scholar Gerwien, A., Schildhauer, M., Thumser, S., Mayer, P. & Dube, H. Direct evidence for hula twist and single-bond rotation photoproducts.
Nat. Commun.
9 , 2510 (2018).
Article PubMed PubMed Central CAS Google Scholar Download references Acknowledgements H.D. acknowledges support from the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG, Emmy Noether fellowship DU 1414/1-2 and SFB 749, A12). H.D. thanks the Cluster of Excellence ‘Center for Integrated Protein Science Munich’ (CIPSM) for financial support.
Author information Authors and Affiliations Ludwig-Maximilians Universität München, Department of Chemistry and Center for Integrated Protein Science CIPSM, Munich, Germany Aaron Gerwien & Peter Mayer Friedrich-Alexander Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Department of Chemistry and Pharmacy, Erlangen, Germany Frederik Gnannt & Henry Dube Authors Aaron Gerwien View author publications You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar Frederik Gnannt View author publications You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar Peter Mayer View author publications You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar Henry Dube View author publications You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar Contributions A.G. and H.D. designed the molecular setup and experiments. A.G. and F.G. synthesized and characterized HTI-photogear 1 and conducted the photophysical, photochemical and kinetic experiments as well as quantitative analyses. P.M. determined the molecular structures in the crystalline state. H.D. coordinated the study and wrote the manuscript. All authors read and approved the paper.
Corresponding author Correspondence to Henry Dube.
Ethics declarations Competing interests The authors declare no competing interests.
Peer review Peer review information Nature Chemistry thanks Wataru Setaka and the other, anonymous, reviewer(s) for their contribution to the peer review of this work.
Additional information Publisher’s note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
Supplementary information Supplementary Information Experimental details, Supplementary –Sections 1–4.8, Figs. 1–87, Tables 1–9 and equations 1–44.
Supplementary Video 1 Animated photogearing from isomer C to isomer B′.
Supplementary Video 2 Animated photogearing from isomer C to isomer B.
Supplementary Video 3 Animated photogearing from isomer D to isomer A.
Supplementary Video 4 Animated photogearing from isomer D to isomer B′.
Supplementary Data 1 XY data for all plots and numerical values for diagrams included in the supplementary information.
Supplementary Data 2 Crystallographic data for isomers C and A , with CCDC reference numbers 2086149 and 2086150, respectively.
Source data Source Data Fig. 2 XY data for panels c and d ; numerical values for panel e.
Source Data Fig. 3 XY data for panels b – g.
Rights and permissions Reprints and Permissions About this article Cite this article Gerwien, A., Gnannt, F., Mayer, P.
et al.
Photogearing as a concept for translation of precise motions at the nanoscale.
Nat. Chem.
14 , 670–676 (2022). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41557-022-00917-0 Download citation Received : 07 July 2021 Accepted : 25 February 2022 Published : 18 April 2022 Issue Date : June 2022 DOI : https://doi.org/10.1038/s41557-022-00917-0 Share this article Anyone you share the following link with will be able to read this content: Sorry, a shareable link is not currently available for this article.
Provided by the Springer Nature SharedIt content-sharing initiative This article is cited by Diaryl-hemiindigos as visible light, pH, and heat responsive four-state switches and application in photochromic transparent polymers Maximilian Sacherer Frank Hampel Henry Dube Nature Communications (2023) You have full access to this article via your institution.
Download PDF Download PDF Advertisement Explore content Research articles Reviews & Analysis News & Comment Current issue Collections Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Sign up for alerts RSS feed About the journal Aims & Scope Journal Information Journal Metrics About the Editors Our publishing models Editorial Values Statement Editorial Policies Content Types Web Feeds Contact Publish with us Submission Guidelines For Reviewers Language editing services Submit manuscript Search Quick links Explore articles by subject Find a job Guide to authors Editorial policies Nature Chemistry ( Nat. Chem.
) ISSN 1755-4349 (online) ISSN 1755-4330 (print) nature.com sitemap About Nature Portfolio About us Press releases Press office Contact us Discover content Journals A-Z Articles by subject Nano Protocol Exchange Nature Index Publishing policies Nature portfolio policies Open access Author & Researcher services Reprints & permissions Research data Language editing Scientific editing Nature Masterclasses Live Expert Trainer-led workshops Research Solutions Libraries & institutions Librarian service & tools Librarian portal Open research Recommend to library Advertising & partnerships Advertising Partnerships & Services Media kits Branded content Career development Nature Careers Nature Conferences Nature events Regional websites Nature Africa Nature China Nature India Nature Italy Nature Japan Nature Korea Nature Middle East Privacy Policy Use of cookies Your privacy choices/Manage cookies Legal notice Accessibility statement Terms & Conditions Your US state privacy rights © 2023 Springer Nature Limited Close Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Close Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
