Artificial intelligence: Simple mathematical trick could slash AI development time in half | New Scientist
2022
https://www.newscientist.com/article/2311525-simple-mathematical-trick-could-slash-ai-development-time-in-half

Close Advertisement Sign in Shop Courses Events Tours Jobs Subscribe now Explore by section News Features Newsletters Podcasts Video Comment Culture Crosswords | This week's magazine Explore by subject Health Space Physics Technology Environment Mind Humans Life Mathematics Chemistry Earth Society Explore our products and services Shop Courses Events Tours Jobs Subscribe now Subscribe now Technology Simple mathematical trick could slash AI development time in half Training artificial intelligences to identify faces or digitise text involves thousands or millions of iterations of a two-stage process known as back-propagation, but a new approach could save time, energy and computing power By Matthew Sparkes 10 March 2022 Cutting training time for AI could make face recognition systems more efficient iStockphoto Artificial intelligence is growing ever more capable at increasingly complex tasks, but requires vast amounts of computing power to develop. A more efficient technique could save up to half the time, energy and computer power needed to train an AI model.
Deep learning models are typically composed of a huge grid of artificial neurons linked by “weights” – computer code that takes an input and passes on a changed output – that represent the synapses linking real neurons. By … Advertisement To continue reading, subscribe today with our introductory offers No commitment, cancel anytime* Offer ends 28th October 2023.
*Cancel anytime within 14 days of payment to receive a refund on unserved issues.
Inclusive of applicable taxes (VAT) or Existing subscribers Advertisement More from New Scientist Explore the latest news, articles and features Technology With privacy concerns rising, can we teach AI chatbots to forget? Features Subscriber-only Technology UK AI summit: G7 countries agree AI code of conduct News Free Technology Biden executive order: How the US is trying to tame AI News Free Life How we will discover the mysterious origins of life once and for all Features Subscriber-only Popular articles Trending New Scientist articles 1 Face masks ward off covid-19, so why are we still arguing about it? 2 How we will discover the mysterious origins of life once and for all 3 Why is there a shortage of ADHD drugs and what can people do? 4 We may now know how ketamine can treat depression for so long 5 You probably don't need 8 hours of sleep for a healthy brain 6 With privacy concerns rising, can we teach AI chatbots to forget? 7 Flatworms can either regrow lost heads or reproduce sexually, not both 8 A curious history of famous body parts 9 UK AI summit: G7 countries agree AI code of conduct 10 Is space-time quantum? Six ways to unpick the fabric of the universe Advertisement Download the app Find us on social media Instagram Facebook X / Twitter Tiktok LinkedIn Subscriptions Subscriber benefits Gift Student Educational Corporate Support Help About us Advertise Write for us Tools Events Science Jobs CoLab Syndication RSS feeds Legal and privacy Contact us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Cookie Settings © Copyright New Scientist Ltd.
Back to the top
