White Castle Expands Partnership with Miso Robotics to Install Flippy 2 in 100 New Locations | Miso Robotics
2022
https://misorobotics.com/newsroom/white-castle-expands-partnership-with-miso-robotics-to-install-flippy-2-in-100-new-locations

Flippy Innovation Lab About Miso Investors Flippy Innovation Lab About Miso Investors Contact Us Newsroom White Castle Expands Partnership with Miso Robotics to Install Flippy 2 in 100 New Locations White Castle Expands Partnership with Miso Robotics to Install Flippy 2 in 100 New Locations Press Release February 15, 2022 The world’s first fast-food hamburger chain doubles down on automation after success of pilot program PASADENA, Calif., Feb. 15, 2022 — Today, White Castle – the world’s first fast-food hamburger chain – announced plans to further expand its work with Miso Robotics and install Flippy 2 in 100 standalone locations. The announcement is the latest milestone for the partnership, which began in September 2020 with the deployment of the original Flippy to a White Castle in the Chicagoland area. Following an upgrade to Flippy 2 in November 2021, White Castle’s commitment to Miso’s technology was cemented after seeing an immediate positive impact on daily operations and the productivity of its team members.
“Our partnership with Miso continues to lead the way on what’s next for back of house restaurant operations looking to empower team members with technology to better satisfy customers,” said Jeff Carper, Chief Operating Officer at White Castle. “Having Flippy 2 be a new hire at 100 of our White Castle locations keeps us on a path to achieve big goals at White Castle.” By taking over the work of an entire fry station, Flippy 2 alleviates the pain points that come with back-of-house roles at quick-service restaurants to create a working environment for its human coworkers that maximizes the efficiency of the kitchen. The improved workflow allows for the redeployment of team members to focus on creating memorable moments for customers. White Castle anticipates many improvements in efficiency, product quality and team member experience as a result of its partnership with Miso Robotics.
Rollouts of Flippy 2 are being phased by region and will be planned out and scheduled in the months and years ahead.
“We could not be more grateful for the confidence White Castle has shown in us as we enter into the next phase of our partnership,” said Mike Bell, CEO of Miso Robotics. “White Castle was the first large brand to embrace our technology and we are thrilled that our Flippy pilot made such a positive impact on their operations that they want to integrate 100 more. We can’t wait to continue on this journey with such an outstanding partner.” Miso Robotics is primarily funded by individual investors and has been one of the most successful equity crowdfunding campaigns in history. With over 15,000 shareholders, the company has raised more than $50MM in crowdfunding to date and is currently in its Series E round, which kicked off with a market valuation of $500 million. To invest in Miso Robotics, visit: https://invest.misorobotics.com/.
Miso Robotics is offering securities through the use of an Offering Statement that has been qualified by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Tier II of Regulation A. A copy of the Final Offering Circular that forms a part of the Offering Statement may be obtained from: Miso Robotics https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1710670/000110465922012145/tm222587d2_partiiandiii.htm.
About White Castle White Castle, America’s first fast-food hamburger chain, has been making hot and tasty sliders as a family-owned business for 100 years. Based in Columbus, Ohio, White Castle started serving The Original Slider® in 1921. Today, White Castle owns and operates 350 restaurants dedicated to satisfying customers’ cravings morning, noon and night and sells its famous fare in retail stores nationwide. The Original Slider, named in 2014 as Time Magazine’s most influential burger of all time, is served alongside a menu of creatively crafted sliders and other mouthwatering food options, including White Castle’s Impossible™ Slider, named by Thrillist in 2019 as the “Best Plant-Based Fast Food Burger.” White Castle’s commitment to maintaining the highest quality products extends to the company owning and operating its own meat processing plants, bakeries and frozen-food processing plants. White Castle is known for the legendary loyalty of its team members, more than 1 in 4 of whom have worked for White Castle for at least 10 years, and of its faithful fans, affectionately referred to as Cravers, many of whom compete each year for entry into the Cravers Hall of Fame. The official White Castle app, available at iTunes App Store or Google Play , makes it easy for Cravers to access sweet deals and place pickup orders any time. They can also have their orders delivered using one of White Castle’s delivery partners. For more information on White Castle, visit whitecastle.com.
About Miso Robotics Miso Robotics is revolutionizing commercial foodservice through intelligent automation solutions that solve some of the largest gaps in back-of-house kitchen operations. Ready to make an immediate financial impact on a restaurant’s bottom line, Miso’s AI-driven platform incorporates robotics, machine learning, computer vision and data analytics to power and develop its breakthrough products, including: Flippy 2, CookRight and Sippy.
With real industry knowledge and learnings accrued through brand partnerships over its first five years, Miso’s products are constantly evolving to drive consistency, increase productivity, reduce costs and improve the overall dining experience. Miso is now accepting new investors for its Series E round. To invest in the future of restaurant automation, visit: https://invest.misorobotics.com.
Miso Featured on Engineering.com: RaaS, Restaurants and Cooking the Perfect French Fry Engineering.com’s Jessica Zimmer covered Miso in a recent feature story A model Flippy at Miso’s Innovation Lab in Pasadena, CA. Image: Miso Robotics From the August 29, 2023 Miso Robotics announces Ecolab partnership and investment Today, Miso Robotics – the company transforming the restaurant industry with robotics and intelligent automation – announced a new partnership and multi-million dollar investment from the world’s water, hygiene and infection prevention company, Ecolab.
May 17, 2023 Independent ROI Study on Flippy Highlighted by QSR Magazine Miso was recently featured in QSR Magazine. “AI, Robots, and the Inventive Future of White Castle” explores how the fast-food industry is embracing cutting-edge technology May 4, 2023 Flippy Innovation Lab About Miso Investors Newsroom & Awards Press & Media Careers Support Contact Us Subscribe to Newsletter Instagram LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Privacy & Legal SEC Offering Circular © 2023 Miso Robotics. All Rights Reserved.
Equity crowdfunding investments in private placements, and start-up investments in particular, are speculative and involve a high degree of risk and those investors who cannot afford to lose their entire investment should not invest in start-ups. Companies seeking startup investment through equity crowdfunding tend to be in earlier stages of development and their business model, products and services may not yet be fully developed, operational or tested in the public marketplace. There is no guarantee that the stated valuation and other terms are accurate or in agreement with the market or industry valuations. Further, investors may receive illiquid and/or restricted stock that may be subject to holding period requirements and/or liquidity concerns. DealMaker Securities LLC, a registered broker-dealer, and member of FINRA | SIPC , located at 105 Maxess Road, Suite 124, Melville, NY 11747, is the Intermediary for this offering and is not an affiliate of or connected with the Issuer. Please check our background on FINRA’s BrokerCheck.
Flippy Innovation Lab About Miso Investors Newsroom & Awards Press & Media Careers Support Flippy Innovation Lab About Miso Investors Newsroom & Awards Press & Media Careers Support Contact Us Instagram Linkedin Facebook Twitter THIS WEBSITE USES COOKIES TO ENSURE YOU GET THE BEST EXPERIENCE.
LEARN MORE OK
