Snap Pixy Drone Camera: Price, Specs, Release Date | WIRED
2022
https://www.wired.com/story/snap-pixy-drone-camera

Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Best Pumpkin Carving Kits How to Use Dall-E 3 in ChatGPT Best Steam Deck Accessories Beginner Birding Gear How to Use Your Phone Addiction for Good Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Lauren Goode Gear News and Events Snap Is Fueling Our Selfie Obsessions With a Flying Camera Photograph: Snap Save this story Save Save this story Save Snap is mostly known for its sticky social network consisting of fleeting messages and legitimately impressive augmented reality filters. But every so often Snap , which calls itself a “camera company,” produces new hardware. Things get a little weird. This is one of those times.
During its annual Snap Partner Summit today, the company showed off a flying camera, the type of device otherwise known as a drone.
 Called Pixy, this flat, yellow plastic copter is designed to pair with the Snapchat app, lift off from the palm of its owner’s hand, quickly capture a photo or video, and zoom back down to the person’s palm, probably at Coachella. The captured media is then wirelessly shared to Memories in the Snapchat app, where Snap’s signature AR filters and video effects can be applied.
The tiny drone costs $230. For $20 more, you can buy a Pixy kit bundled with two extra batteries. You’ll probably need the extra batteries, because a fully charged Pixy will be able to complete somewhere between five and eight short flight paths before requiring a recharge. (A palm-sized drone that weighs less than a pound doesn’t exactly allow for big batteries.) Photograph: Snap Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers Pixy will appeal to a specific kind of Snap user, and Snap knows this too: It’s only selling a limited number of units, “while supplies last,” in the US and France. In an interview with WIRED about the drone and Snap’s broader AR goals, cofounder and technology chief Bobby Murphy wouldn’t say how many he expects will sell, though he says the company’s goal is to “create something that really resonates with our community.” That seems to align with the company’s earlier hardware efforts. From its Spectacles camera glasses , which were at first only available via a Snap-branded vending machine when they launched in 2016, to the AR glasses it showed off last spring, which were only available to developers, Snap is very good at generating buzz around, not necessarily revenue from, its hardware business.
That doesn’t mean the hardware products developed in Snap’s labs aren’t technologically significant. Snap released video-capture glasses years before the much more influential Meta did.
 Last year’s AR-capable Spectacles offered a glimpse of immersive and delightful AR lenses, as Snap calls them, viewed through the glasses on your face. This new drone Pixy relies on computer vision and object recognition technology to identify people’s faces and body parts, so it can follow or “orbit” around Pixy users, capture the best possible photo or video clip, and afterwards land itself in the palm of one’s hand.
“We’re looking forward to evolving Pixy and really uncovering all the different ways that a computer-vision driven flying camera can add value,” Murphy says.
Still, both in conversation with Murphy and during Snap’s virtual partner summit today, the company made clear that its focus is squarely on its AR technology. Snap stands out for a few reasons in the broader social media landscape, and one of those reasons is its AR tech. (It’s also worth noting that Snap has many more millions of daily active users than Twitter does, which has sucked up all the air in the news this week due to Elon Musk’s purchase and planned privatization of Twitter.) Snap’s event for developers today included the reveal of something called Lens Cloud. This is a Snap-run backend service that is supposed to let app makers build new kinds of augmented reality assets and run them more smoothly and quickly from within Snapchat. Before, building an experience like a multi-user game or using location-based anchors would require an app maker to basically build their own app. With Lens Cloud, Snap is aiming to provide the hosting service for this.
Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers There are also new AR shopping templates, which will let retailers upload existing photography from their shopping sites and use Snap’s tech to transform the images into AR shopping displays. And Snap is working with Live Nation to build concert-specific Lenses for live shows, because we just can’t get enough of our phone screens, even when we’re hanging out IRL again.
Snap has also positioned itself as a kind of foil to Meta, in that Snap insists its AR products are embedded in the current reality and not part of a far-flung vision of the future. Meta has its popular Quest VR headset , which envelops the wearer’s entire vision; Snap believes its app users should still experience the real world. Snap even labeled today’s event “Back to Reality.” During a brief keynote introduction, Snap chief executive Evan Spiegel made hardly a mention of “the metaverse,” even if Snap’s tech—computer experiences layered over the real world—is fundamentally how technologists describe the metaverse. Spiegel also claimed Snap is ranked the “number one happiest platform when compared to other apps,” and said 90 percent of Snapchatters say they feel comfortable and connected when they use the app. This is based on research commissioned by … Snap. But Spiegel’s remarks come after Facebook was scrutinized last fall, in a series of reports from The Wall Street Journal , for the effects its apps might be having on teen mental health.
Gear Everything Apple Announced at Today’s Hardware Event Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 15 Cases and Accessories Julian Chokkattu Gear Give Your Back a Break With Our Favorite Office Chairs Julian Chokkattu Gear How to Create Images With ChatGPT’s New Dall-E 3 Integration Reece Rogers While today’s partner event was focused on near-term technologies, Murphy says that Snap has a “very, very long-term conviction around AR. This has the potential to enable computing experiences that align to how humans naturally behave,” he says. When pressed on what sets Snap apart from Meta, Murphy says Snap’s massive differentiator in the AR/VR landscape is its “singular focus on AR … We believe very strongly that the opportunity space in AR is much bigger than anything we’ve seen described in ‘the metaverse’ or other terms.” 📩 The latest on tech, science, and more: Get our newsletters ! The race to rebuild the world's coral reefs She was missing a chunk of her brain.
 It didn't matter You should always question the default settings Battle Kitty stretches the limits of Netflix's tech The rise of brand-new secondhand EVs 👁️ Explore AI like never before with our new database 🎧 Things not sounding right? Check out our favorite wireless headphones , soundbars , and Bluetooth speakers Senior Writer X Topics drones snap Snapchat Photography Social Media Julian Chokkattu Julian Chokkattu Lauren Goode Julian Chokkattu Eric Ravenscraft Eric Ravenscraft Matt Jancer Parker Hall WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart coupon: $10 Off any size order + free delivery Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code Samsung coupon Code for up to 40% Off the store Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón
