Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release Cofactor Genomics’ Immunotherapy Predictive Diagnostic, OncoPrism, Completes Validation and Moves Into Clinical Use in Head and Neck Cancer Patients Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn — Twenty-five institutions collaborate with Cofactor to validate OncoPrism for use in head and neck cancer patients.
SAINT LOUIS, Mo.–(BUSINESS WIRE)–November 17, 2023– Cofactor Genomics, the company bridging the precision medicine gap, today announced successful validation of the OncoPrism immunotherapy predictive diagnostic assay, enabling physicians to use the test to help guide treatment decisions for patients with metastatic or recurrent squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (HNSCC). The successful readout is announced on the heels of the yearly national PREDAPT Summit, where the participating institutions from across the country gathered and reviewed the study results. The assay was validated in independent HNSCC patient cohorts receiving anti-PD-1 inhibitors pembrolizumab and nivolumab both as a single agent and in combination with chemotherapy. This milestone clears the assay for nationwide clinical use in an interventional setting where doctors can now incorporate OncoPrism to help guide patient treatment in a landscape of multiple therapies, each benefiting a subset of the patient population.
“This is a proud day for all those working tirelessly to bring precision medicine to immunotherapy and improve the outcome and quality of care for patients. We have learned not only from the study’s validation results but from physicians across the nation who have had significant input on the study and the OncoPrism assay these last 3 years,” stated Jarret Glasscock, Cofactor’s CEO.
This validation announcement follows a publication earlier this year in the Journal of Cancer Research and Clinical Oncology, where Cofactor along with more than 20 participating institutions reported on OncoPrism’s capability to predict HNSCC patients’ response to anti-PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitors. Cofactor’s broader work, on the technology’s ability to predict response to immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) across multiple cancers, was recognized by the Nature Publishing Group as the second most downloaded oncology paper of the year.
While the validation of OncoPrism in HNSCC patients was the focus of this week’s announcement, Cofactor’s national PREDAPT clinical trial is aimed at evaluating OncoPrism in 11 cancers including lung, head and neck, colorectal, breast, cervical, liver, kidney, esophageal and bladder. US healthcare systems supporting and participating in the PREDAPT trial collectively provide care to approximately 20% of the total US patient population.
About Cofactor Genomics Cofactor Genomics is bridging the precision medicine gap by building diagnostic tools to match the right patient to the right treatment at the right time. Predicting patient response to therapy currently relies on isolated, single-analyte biomarkers that have failed to deliver accurate therapy response predictions, resulting in unnecessary healthcare costs, and most harmfully, negative outcomes for patients. Cofactor’s products use Predictive Immune Modeling, which leverages RNA data and machine learning to combine biological signals, creating multidimensional biomarkers to deliver on the promise of precision medicine.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231117346124/en/ press@cofactorgenomics.com VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
