Artificial Intelligence View All AI, ML and Deep Learning Auto ML Data Labelling Synthetic Data Conversational AI NLP Text-to-Speech Security View All Data Security and Privacy Network Security and Privacy Software Security Computer Hardware Security Cloud and Data Storage Security Data Infrastructure View All Data Science Data Management Data Storage and Cloud Big Data and Analytics Data Networks Automation View All Industrial Automation Business Process Automation Development Automation Robotic Process Automation Test Automation Enterprise Analytics View All Business Intelligence Disaster Recovery Business Continuity Statistical Analysis Predictive Analysis More Data Decision Makers Virtual Communication Team Collaboration UCaaS Virtual Reality Collaboration Virtual Employee Experience Programming & Development Product Development Application Development Test Management Development Languages Press Release Former Citadel CIO, Tom Miglis, Joins RQD* Clearing’s Board of Directors After Series A Funding Share on Facebook Share on X Share on LinkedIn NEW YORK–(BUSINESS WIRE)–November 16, 2023– RQD* Clearing, LLC (RQD), a leading correspondent clearing services provider, welcomes Tom Miglis, former Chief Information Officer of Citadel and current Investment Partner at Nyca Partners, to its Board of Directors following a successful Series A financing round led by Nyca Partners and ABN Amro Clearing Investments.
Tom Miglis is renowned for his innovative approach to integrating technology with trading systems and improving market efficiency. His association with RQD marks a significant step in advancing RQD’s mission to deliver innovative clearing solutions.
Tom expressed enthusiasm about joining RQD, stating, “Clearing firms have remained stagnant and unable to modernize due to their reliance on outdated, third-party technology. By controlling its codebase, RQD can build unique solutions giving market participants exactly what they want.” Michael Sanocki, CEO of RQD, commented, “With Tom joining our team, we are taking a significant stride in enhancing our commitment to client-focused initiatives. At RQD, we prioritize the needs and satisfaction of our clients and their customers, ensuring an unparalleled clearing and custody experience. Tom’s expertise aligns with our vision, propelling us towards continuous innovation and sustained growth.” About RQD Clearing: RQD is a modern correspondent clearing provider that offers clearing, custody, and execution solutions designed to meet the needs of today’s dynamic market participants. Built entirely on cloud-native, real-time technology, RQD can quickly and seamlessly enhance its platform, adapt to regulatory changes and offer a more efficient implementation that scales as clients grow. In addition to portfolio margin, RQD supports U.S. equities, options, ETFs, and other securities, catering to broker-dealers that service retail, institutional, and active traders, foreign financial institutions, and proprietary trading firms.
To learn more about RQD’s clearing and custody solutions, please visit www.rqdclearing.com or contact us at sales@rqdclearing.com.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231116219074/en/ Media Victoria Kwiatkowski RQD Clearing, LLC media@rqdclearing.com VentureBeat's mission is to be a digital town square for technical decision-makers to gain knowledge about transformative enterprise technology and transact.
Discover our Briefings.
VentureBeat Homepage Follow us on Facebook Follow us on X Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on RSS Press Releases Contact Us Advertise Share a News Tip Contribute to DataDecisionMakers Careers Privacy Policy Terms of Service Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2023 VentureBeat.
 All rights reserved.
