Home Reviews Best in Tech Hands-On View all Reviews Buying Guides Best Wireless Earbuds Best Robot Vacuums Best Laptops Best Gaming Laptops Best VPN Best Bluetooth Trackers View all Buying Guides Gaming Best Games PlayStation Nintendo Xbox View all Gaming Gear Amazon Apple Google Microsoft Samsung View all Gear Entertainment Movies Music TV YouTube View all Entertainment Tomorrow Space AI Robotics Transportation View all Tomorrow Deals Black Friday 2023 News Video Podcasts Reviews Best in Tech Hands-On View all Reviews Buying Guides Best Wireless Earbuds Best Robot Vacuums Best Laptops Best Gaming Laptops Best VPN Best Bluetooth Trackers View all Buying Guides Gaming Best Games PlayStation Nintendo Xbox View all Gaming Gear Amazon Apple Google Microsoft Samsung View all Gear Entertainment Movies Music TV YouTube View all Entertainment Tomorrow Space AI Robotics Transportation View all Tomorrow Deals Black Friday 2023 News Video Podcasts Facebook Twitter YouTube Reviews Buying Guides Gaming Gear Entertainment Tomorrow Deals News Video Podcasts Andrew Tarantola Senior Editor Andrew Tarantola has more than a decade of experience in reporting on cutting-edge science and emerging technology news. His career began in 2010 as Gizmodo’s “book intern” before rising to the rank of staff writer in 2012. In 2015, Andrew moved to Engadget and is now a Senior Reporter covering emerging technologies from artificial intelligence and robotics to electric vehicles and commercial spacecraft, as well as producing the site’s weekly Hitting the Books column. When not telling tales of the future, he enjoys gardening, woodworking, and reading pulp sci-fi serials. Email him story ideas, or tips, to Andrew.Tarantola@Engadget.com.
Articles By Andrew Tarantola OpenAI fires CEO Sam Altman as 'board no longer has confidence' in his leadership CTO Mira Murati has been tapped to serve as interim CEO, effective immediately.
By A. Tarantola , 5 hours ago What happened to Washington's wildlife after the largest dam removal in US history Sometimes the best thing we can do to restore nature is just get out of the way.
By A. Tarantola , 11.12.2023 Humane's Ai Pin costs $699 and ships in early 2024, which is about all we know for certain Many questions remain about how it will perform in real world situations.
By A. Tarantola , 11.09.2023 We have two newsletters, why not sign up for both? Engadget Deals A weekly roundup of our favorite tech deals The Morning After A daily dose of the news you need Just enter your email and we'll take care of the rest: Please enter a valid email address Please select a newsletter Subscribe By subscribing, you are agreeing to Engadget's Terms and Privacy Policy.
Google's AI-powered search feature goes global with a 120-country expansion The SGE update includes additional language support for Spanish, Portuguese, Korean and Indonesian.
By A. Tarantola , 11.08.2023 NVIDIA's Eos supercomputer just broke its own AI training benchmark record The system can train a 175 billion parameter GPT-3 model in under four minutes. It needs just 7.2 seconds for BERT.
By A. Tarantola , 11.08.2023 Meta reportedly won't make its AI advertising tools available to political marketers The experimental features can adjust images, generate backgrounds and automatically write video captions.
By A. Tarantola , 11.06.2023 OpenAI GPTs are customizable AI bots that anyone can create Users don't even need to know how to code to use OpenAI's newest generative tool.
By A. Tarantola , 11.06.2023 How the meandering legal definition of 'fair use' cost us Napster but gave us Spotify From DMCA takedowns to Content ID filters, labels continue to crack down on online music sharing.
By A. Tarantola , 11.05.2023 Sony's 'GT Sophy' racing AI is taking all Gran Turismo 7 challengers The new machine learning opponent comes to the PS5 as part of GT7's Spec II Update on November 2.
By A. Tarantola , 11.01.2023 Kamala Harris announces AI Safety Institute to protect American consumers The Biden administration is also addressing responsible AI adoption in military and international applications.
By A. Tarantola , 11.01.2023 Sweeping White House executive order takes aim at AI's toughest challenges User privacy, government transparency and public safety were focal points of Monday's announcement.
By A. Tarantola , 10.30.2023 What the evolution of our own brains can tell us about the future of AI Even the most robust large language models still struggle with common sense questions.
By A. Tarantola , 10.29.2023 Leica's M11-P is a disinformation-resistant camera built for wealthy photojournalists It automatically watermarks photos with Content Credentials metadata.
By A. Tarantola , 10.26.2023 Google updates Maps with a flurry of AI features including 'Immersive View for routes' Get more comprehensive EV station information before you arrive to charge.
By A. Tarantola , 10.26.2023 The US Senate and Silicon Valley reconvene for a second AI Insight Forum Transparency, trust and safety are again at the forefront of discussion.
By A. Tarantola , 10.25.2023 Adult film star Riley Reid launches Clona.AI, a sexting chatbot platform Content creators will have direct say in what their $30-a-month 'AI companions' say.
By A. Tarantola , 10.24.2023 Qualcomm brings on-device AI to mobile and PC Stable Diffusion can generate images in less than a second on the company's new chipsets.
By A. Tarantola , 10.24.2023 NASA's John Mather keeps redefining our understanding of the cosmos Before helping get the JWST off the ground, his work with COBE confirmed the Big Bang theory.
By A. Tarantola , 10.22.2023 Tesla begins Cybertruck deliveries on November 30 Start shopping for your novelty-oversized bows now.
By A. Tarantola , 10.18.2023 Baidu's CEO says its ERNIE AI 'is not inferior in any aspect to GPT-4' The generative AI chatbot can answer questions with text, images and dynamic graphs.
By A. Tarantola , 10.17.2023 Load More Articles Sponsored Links About Sections Contribute Buying Guides Subscribe to our two newsletters: - A weekly roundup of our favorite tech deals - A daily dose of the news you need Please enter a valid email address Please select a newsletter Subscribe By subscribing, you are agreeing to Engadget's Terms and Privacy Policy.
Follow Us About Us Reprints and Permissions Suggestions Terms and Privacy Policy Privacy Dashboard Trademarks Advertise About Our Ads
