The A.V. Club Deadspin Gizmodo Jalopnik Jezebel Kotaku Quartz The Root The Takeout The Onion The Inventory Send us a Tip! Shop Subscribe The Future Is Here Search Home Latest News Reviews Science Earther io9 AI Space En Español Video Tech News Artificial Intelligence Tech News Artificial Intelligence Tech News Artificial Intelligence ChatGPT Is Apparently a Great Surveillance Tool A Russian spyware company is using the chatbot to spy on web users. Plus: WTF happened to Sam Altman? By Published io9 Toys and Collectibles io9 Toys and Collectibles io9 Toys and Collectibles The Star Wars: Ahsoka Hot Toys Figure Is Battle-Ready The figure featuring Rosario Dawson's likeness is now available for pre-order on Sideshow's website.
By Published Advertisement Read on Treat Yourself This Holiday Season With The Biggest Sale of the Year on Ritual Supplements Ritual's amazing gut health supplement can help support a balanced microbiome.
io9 io9 Reviews Movies io9 io9 Reviews Movies io9 io9 Reviews Movies Eli Roth's Thanksgiving Is a Dumb, Disgusting Delight Patrick Dempsey and Addison Rae star in Eli Roth's long-awaited horror take on the popular holiday.
By Published Off English Facebook Twitter Email Reddit Link The Hunger Games Director Francis Lawrence on Adapting a Prequel io9 Television Animation io9 Television Animation io9 Television Animation 7 Things We Liked, and 3 We Didn't, About Scott Pilgrim Takes Off Netflix and Science Saru's new anime based on the legendary graphic novel series is, for the most part, a refreshing love letter to a comics classic.
By Published Advertisement Tech News Artificial Intelligence Tech News Artificial Intelligence Tech News Artificial Intelligence OpenAI Fires CEO Sam Altman Sam Altman has been ousted by the Board of Directors at OpenAI and is replaced by Mira Murati.
By Published Updated Read on Tech Home Theater G/O Media may get a commission G/O Media may get a commission Read on Tech Home Theater Tech Home Theater The Bestselling Govee Envisual TV LED Backlight is 43% Off for Black Friday on Amazon The Govee Envisual TV LED Backlight T2, equipped with cutting-edge technology, promises unrivaled home entertainment.
By Published Advertisement io9 Television Sci-Fi io9 Television Sci-Fi io9 Television Sci-Fi Watch David Tennant's New Doctor Who Debut A week before he hits TV for the 60th anniversary, David Tennant's 14th Doctor is here for a very special scene.
By Published io9 Horror io9 Horror io9 Horror Stranger Things: The First Shadow Stage Play Reveals First Look Stephen Daldry (The Crown) directs the prequel play based on the Duffer Brothers' Netflix hit; it opens in London in… By Published Advertisement Tech News Artificial Intelligence Tech News Artificial Intelligence Tech News Artificial Intelligence The Best of OpenAI’s New GPTs, Ranked Everyone will soon get a chance to use GPTs, the new technology from OpenAI that could open Pandora's box on generative AI.
By Published Science Space Science Space Science Space The Hubble Telescope Just Sized Up an Earth-Sized Exoplanet The transiting world is Earth-like…but roughly 500° Fahrenheit.
By Published Advertisement Tech News Transportation Tech News Transportation Tech News Transportation Tesla Investors Call for Elon Musk to Be Suspended, Apple Pulls Ads on X Several investors, tech leaders, and government officials have condemned Elon’s comments on Jews.
By Published Updated io9 Movies Sci-Fi io9 Movies Sci-Fi io9 Movies Sci-Fi Dune 2 Is Coming Earlier Than Planned, But Not as Early as You'd Hope The Denis Villeneuve sci-fi sequel is still coming out March 2024 but now a few weeks earlier.
By Published Advertisement io9 Movies Sci-Fi io9 Movies Sci-Fi Off English io9 Movies Sci-Fi The Hunger Games Director Francis Lawrence on Adapting a Prequel The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes director chats with io9 about the challenges of making a prequel in the film series.
Published Read on Tech G/O Media may get a commission G/O Media may get a commission Read on Tech Tech Save 25% on the 2020 MacBook Air with M1 Chip for Black Friday Packed with outstanding features and an all-day battery, it's a deal you can't afford to miss.
By Published Advertisement Tech News Streaming Services Tech News Streaming Services Tech News Streaming Services Peacock Is Adding The Exorcist: Believer to Your Christmas Stocking The sequel hits the streamer almost exactly 50 years after the original Exorcist premiered in December 1973.
By Published Reviews Computer Peripherals Reviews Computer Peripherals Reviews Computer Peripherals This Engineer Created The 'World's First Ergonomic Magic Mouse With No Weaknesses' Maybe this will make the Magic Mouse a little more usable.
By Published Advertisement io9 Trailer Frenzy io9 Trailer Frenzy io9 Trailer Frenzy You Can't Watch the Star Wars Holiday Special (Legally), But You Can Soon Watch Its Documentary A Disturbance in the Force is screening nationwide and comes home on December 5.
By Published Science Space Science Space Science Space How to Best Witness the Leonid Meteor Shower This Weekend The annual sky show peaks in mid-November, and it's a spectacle you won't want to miss.
By Published Reviews Gaming Reviews Gaming Off English Reviews Gaming Don’t Call it a Steam Deck 2 | Steam Deck OLED Review The Steam Deck OLED will start shipping on November 16th, but you can pre-order it today.
Published Read on Kinja Deals G/O Media may get a commission G/O Media may get a commission Read on Kinja Deals Kinja Deals Fill Up Your Shopping Cart With Today’s Best Amazon Deals, Including A Pikachu Toy and More Save big on fitness gear, kitchenware, tech, and more.
By Published Advertisement More stories Advertisement
