The A.V. Club Deadspin Gizmodo Jalopnik Jezebel Kotaku Quartz The Root The Takeout The Onion The Inventory Send us a Tip! Shop Subscribe The Future Is Here Search Home Latest News Reviews Science Earther io9 AI Space En Español Video Reviews Expert news and opinions on the latest hardware, gizmos, and tools.
This Engineer Created The 'World's First Ergonomic Magic Mouse With No Weaknesses' Maybe this will make the Magic Mouse a little more usable.
Dua Rashid Now playing 01:58 Don’t Call it a Steam Deck 2 | Steam Deck OLED Review Artem Golub and Jorge Jimenez It's Time to Say Goodbye to Clyde, Discord's AI Chatbot Dua Rashid Qualcomm's Snapdragon 7 Gen 3 Doubles Down on AI for Android's Mid-Range Devices Florence Ion The Next iPhone Will Have an Easier Time Texting Android's Green Bubbles Florence Ion Laptops & Tablets View all Now playing 03:50 The M3 Max MacBook Pro is the Same Beast You Know and Love Apple’s M3 Max Macbook Pro starts at $3,499. Is this the right laptop for you? Artem Golub and Kyle Barr We Might Finally Get an OLED Apple iPad Next Year Apple didn’t release any new 11th-gen iPad this year, but if rumors are true, the next refresh could be a big one.
Kyle Barr 14-Inch Apple MacBook Pro With M3 Review: The M3-Era Is Here If you're on an M2-series MacBook Pro, the M3 performance boosts might not be enough to pull in you just yet.
Dua Rashid 16-inch MacBook Pro M3 Max Review: Powerful, Sleek, but Still the Same The M3 Max-powered MacBook Pro is easily the most powerful laptop Apple has ever produced, though I don't see gaming on a Mac taking off just yet.
Kyle Barr Gaming View all The New Analogue Pockets Might Be One of the Cutest Holiday Releases It's giving strong 2001 Game Boy vibes and I am here for it.
Dua Rashid Asus Offers a Replacement for Its $700 Evangelion Motherboard with Goofy Typo They finally acknowledged the issue, apologized for it, and developed a plan to fix it.
Dua Rashid Legion Go Review: Innovative and Powerful, but Bulky and Unwieldy The Legion Go is a strong competitor to the Steam Deck, but Windows doesn't help.
Kyle Barr Valve Says a Steam Deck 2 Is Still 'Two or Three Years' Out Don't expect a proper successor to the Steam Deck anytime soon.
Jorge Jimenez Headphones View all Samsung Galaxy Buds FE Review: Surprisingly Good ANC for $99 For a $99 pair of buds to offer ANC, that's this good is definitely impressive.
Dua Rashid CT Scans Show Why Fake Apple AirPods Sound So Awful CT scans reveal that fakes are nothing like the real ones in every department.
Dua Rashid Apple to Revamp AirPods Lineup in 2024 and 2025 In the next two years, the AirPods, AirPods Pro, and AirPods Max will see a complete overhaul.
Dua Rashid Cleer's Alpha Headphones Offer a Lot of Value at a Reasonable Price You get pretty good sound, powerful ANC, a battery that lasts, and a solid mic for $200.
Dua Rashid Smartphones View all Qualcomm's Snapdragon 7 Gen 3 Doubles Down on AI for Android's Mid-Range Devices The AI capabilities are more focused on boosting the capabilities of budget devices.
Florence Ion The Next iPhone Will Have an Easier Time Texting Android's Green Bubbles Apple has quietly announced RCS compatibility is coming to Messages.
Florence Ion Qi2's Wireless Charging Debut Hopefully Means MagSafe Chargers Will Come to Android At least your new iPhone 15 can use Qi2 wireless charging speeds this holiday season.
Florence Ion Apple Gives iPhone 14 Users an Extra Year of Emergency SOS Via Satellite We still don't know how much the feature will cost, but Apple has until 2025 to figure it out.
Florence Ion Wearables View all Google Stops Selling Fitbits in Regions Where it Doesn't Sell Pixels The company is scaling back sales of its wearables and focusing only where the Pixel is selling.
Florence Ion A Fix for Apple WatchOS 10.1 Battery Drain Issue Is 'Coming Soon' Apple might release a fix for it in WatchOS 10.2, which is currently in beta testing mode and will release in December.
Dua Rashid The Next Apple Watch Could Help Determine If You Suffer From Sleep Apnea A new report claims the company is working hard behind the scenes to make the Apple Watch the end-all, be-all health-centric wearable.
Florence Ion Apple Could Face an Import Ban on Its Watches Due to a Patent Violation The Biden administration has 60 days to decide whether or not to veto the import ban.
Dua Rashid Home Entertainment View all Sonos Says New Move 2 Speaker Can Play Music for 24 Hours Before It Needs a Charge The second-gen portable speaker is $450 and goes on sale later this month.
Florence Ion Miyoo Mini Plus Review: A Reminder That Bigger Isn't Always Better Finding the new Miyoo Mini Plus is a lot easier than its sold-out predecessor, but is it the retro handheld you should actually buy? Andrew Liszewski JMGO's Ultrabright Projector is the Cheapest Way to Upgrade to a 100-Inch TV Although pricier than it was at launch, the JMGO N1 Ultra still delivers excellent performance and a uniquely useful design for $2,299.
Andrew Liszewski The Sonos Era 300 Is the Best Premium Speaker for Apple Households The Era 300 works best within Apple-dominant households.
Florence Ion Desktops View all Apple iMac (2023) Review: One Foot in the Future and the Past The iMac is back, but it's not quite the version you want.
Jorge Jimenez WhatsApp Finally Got Added to Apple's App Store for Mac Believe it or not, WhatsApp hasn't been on the App Store for Mac this whole time.
Dua Rashid Now playing 02:47 The New M3-Powered iMacs Are Triggering Serious Deja Vu Apple’s new colorful all-in-one iMacs are available starting November 7.
Artem Golub and Jorge Jimenez The Apple iMac Is Back, but It Feels a Little Too Familiar The iMac is back in all of its thin, colorful glory. This time, it's powered by Apple's M3 chip, but you can't help but feel a bit of deja vu.
Jorge Jimenez Smart Home View all Amazon Is Quietly Replacing Android in Some Products with its Own OS The new OS Codenamed Vega has been spotted on the Echo Show 5.
Dua Rashid Google's 'Help Me Script' Can Help Automate Your Smart Home The feature is only in preview mode for now, and you don't have to know how to code to use it.
Florence Ion Matter's Latest Update Adds Support for Home Appliances, but Does It Matter? It is cool to be able to start a robot vacuum remotely, but I've been doing that with the smart home I already have.
Florence Ion Samsung Adds SmartThings to Its Soundbars and Smart TVs The premium HW-Q900C will be the first to debut SmartThings baked into a Samsung device.
Florence Ion VR View all Meta Will Now be Able to Sell Its New Budget VR Headset in China Meta's budget-friendly VR headset should be released in late 2024.
Dua Rashid TikTok Owner's VR Headset Company Pico Lays Off Hundreds of Staff: Report ByteDance’s Pico brand is reportedly eliminating its software department to refocus on hardware, citing VR market growth expectations were ‘too optimistic.’ Kyle Barr SteamVR 2.0 Makes Valve's Virtual UI a Lot Steamier After years of rather insignificant updates, the new SteamVR takes a lot more cues from the Steam Deck’s UI.
Kyle Barr TikTok's Parent Company Isn't Done Yet With Those Pico VR Headsets ByteDance claims the company is still focused on shipping VR hardware despite not having much to show in 2023.
Kyle Barr Tech View all I Cannot Take Amazon's New Robot for Business Seriously Astro for Business is the successor to the Home robot that Amazon launched two years ago.
Dua Rashid You Can Finally Delete Threads Without Losing Your Instagram The X/Twitter clone is rolling out a couple of features that users have been asking for since the beginning.
Dua Rashid Here's Your Reminder to Sign in to Your Old Gmail Account Before Google Deletes It Not doing so will lead to Google deleting it on December 1.
Dua Rashid Honda Motocompacto Hands-On: Goofy-Looking but True to Its Name Honda’s new e-scooter looks like a suitcase but is perfect for being stowed away in your car or room.
Dua Rashid Other Gadgets View all Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 Wants to Compete for AI Dominance on Android Everything Qualcomm’s offering, including a new Snapdragon X Elite chip for PCs, is centered around artificial intelligence and beating both Apple and Google.
Kyle Barr Meta's New Ray-Ban Smart Glasses Look Kinda Cool and Can Livestream Your Life No longer called Stories, the new smart glasses feature a new look and can be pre-ordered for $300.
Florence Ion Anker's 67-Pound Rolling Battery Is Peace of Mind on Wheels Power outages will be much less stressful with this backup battery that can keep your fridge running.
Andrew Liszewski Unistellar's New Smart Telescope Turns Anyone Into a Backyard Astrophotographer The telescope makes it possible for amateurs to capture fantastic views of space, even in densely lit environments.
George Dvorsky Choose a section: laptops gaming headphones smartphones wearables televisions home entertainment computer components computer peripherals cameras smart-home Show more Advertisement
