The A.V. Club Deadspin Gizmodo Jalopnik Jezebel Kotaku Quartz The Root The Takeout The Onion The Inventory Send us a Tip! Shop Subscribe The Future Is Here Search Home Latest News Reviews Science Earther io9 AI Space En Español Video Smartphones Everything you ever wanted to know about Reviews - Smartphones.
Reviews Smartphones Reviews Smartphones Qualcomm's Snapdragon 7 Gen 3 Doubles Down on AI for Android's Mid-Range Devices The AI capabilities are more focused on boosting the capabilities of budget devices.
By Published Reviews Smartphones Apple Reviews Smartphones Apple The Next iPhone Will Have an Easier Time Texting Android's Green Bubbles Apple has quietly announced RCS compatibility is coming to Messages.
By Published Reviews Smartphones Reviews Smartphones Qi2's Wireless Charging Debut Hopefully Means MagSafe Chargers Will Come to Android At least your new iPhone 15 can use Qi2 wireless charging speeds this holiday season.
By Published Reviews Smartphones Apple Reviews Smartphones Apple Apple Gives iPhone 14 Users an Extra Year of Emergency SOS Via Satellite We still don't know how much the feature will cost, but Apple has until 2025 to figure it out.
By Published Reviews Smartphones Reviews Smartphones Android's Dream of Satellite Connectivity Done Before It Even Began Qualcomm parted ways with its satellite network provider. Now, it’s up to each phone maker to pursue the personal… By Published Reviews Smartphones Samsung Reviews Smartphones Samsung Samsung Galaxy S23 FE Review: The Simple Pleasures of a Simple Phone A lightweight, no-frills $600 S23 FE may be just what the doctor ordered for those tired of tripping over new phone… By Published Reviews Smartphones Apple Reviews Smartphones Apple The iPhone SE 4 Could Look a Lot Like the iPhone 14 It will use almost the same chassis as the iPhone 14 and the same flat, no-button design.
By Published Reviews Smartphones Apple Reviews Smartphones Apple Apple Delayed Next Year’s iPhone Software To Deal With This Year’s Software Bugs The company would rather keep you waiting than have you complain.
By Published Reviews Smartphones Samsung Reviews Smartphones Samsung Samsung’s ChatGPT Rival Could Come to the Galaxy S24 Samsung will compete with Google to install an AI chatbot, coding bot, and image generator on its mobile devices.
By Published Reviews Smartphones Google Reviews Smartphones Google Google Photos Won't Let You Use Magic Editor to Make a Fake ID Google is trying to keep you from using machine learning to do anything nefarious, like altering a driver's license… By Published Reviews Smartphones Samsung Reviews Smartphones Samsung Samsung’s Galaxy S24 Ultra Is Coming for the iPhone 15 Pro With Its Own Titanium Build If you can’t beat them, join them with the same marketing schtick.
By Published Reviews Smartphones Apple Reviews Smartphones Apple How to Customize the New iPhone 15 Pro Action Button Make the most of the new button on the most expensive iPhone 15 models.
By Published Reviews Smartphones Google Reviews Smartphones Google Android Users to Get Apple-Like Login Features This Week Credential Manager is not a sexy name, but it will let you log in to multiple accounts with your face or thumb.
By Published Reviews Smartphones Samsung Reviews Smartphones Samsung Samsung's Galaxy S24 Ultra Might Do More Than Just Zoom in From Really Far Away It'll do that, but its new ISOCELL Zoom will maintain high-res focus even as your subject moves around.
By Published Reviews Smartphones Apple Reviews Smartphones Apple Apple’s Reportedly Working on Patch For iPhone 15 BMW Charging Issue BMW owners say they're having issues with their iPhones 15s working with their cars, and it appears that Apple might… By Published Reviews Smartphones Samsung Reviews Smartphones Samsung Samsung's Temporary Cloud Backup is Like a Scratch Pad for Your Phone's Data Temporarily upload apps and data while figuring out whether to fix or replace your device.
By Published Reviews Smartphones OnePlus Reviews Smartphones OnePlus OnePlus Open is the ‘Phablet” We’ve Been Waiting For The new foldable phone from OnePlus will be available to purchase October 26 starting at $1,699.99 Published Reviews Smartphones OnePlus Reviews Smartphones OnePlus OnePlus Open Review: This Phone Changed My Mind About Foldables OnePlus’ first foldable is still expensive and it has manufacturing problems, but it has the smallest crease of any… By Published Reviews Smartphones Google Reviews Smartphones Google Pixel 8 Pro Review: Sets the New Standard for All Things Android The Pixel 8 is also one of the best small Android phones you can buy.
By Published Reviews Smartphones Google Reviews Smartphones Google Google's Pixel 8 and 8 Pro are New, and Somewhat Improved A new camera system and cornered edges are nice, but they're not exactly groundbreaking.
Published Advertisement
