The A.V. Club Deadspin Gizmodo Jalopnik Jezebel Kotaku Quartz The Root The Takeout The Onion The Inventory Send us a Tip! Shop Subscribe The Future Is Here Search Home Latest News Reviews Science Earther io9 AI Space En Español Video Tech News Tech news, analysis, culture, business, security, and more ChatGPT Is Apparently a Great Surveillance Tool A Russian spyware company is using the chatbot to spy on web users. Plus: WTF happened to Sam Altman? Lucas Ropek OpenAI Fires CEO Sam Altman Sam Altman has been ousted by the Board of Directors at OpenAI and is replaced by Mira Murati.
Maxwell Zeff The Best of OpenAI’s New GPTs, Ranked Everyone will soon get a chance to use GPTs, the new technology from OpenAI that could open Pandora's box on generative AI.
Maxwell Zeff Tesla Investors Call for Elon Musk to Be Suspended, Apple Pulls Ads on X Several investors, tech leaders, and government officials have condemned Elon’s comments on Jews.
Maxwell Zeff News View all News TikTok Has Canceled Osama bin Laden Just got word that will shock the world—your problematic fave has been deplatformed.
Maxwell Zeff News Meta Officially Accepts Blood Money to Promote the Big Lie Want to lie about the 2020 election? Right this way, sir.
Thomas Germain News Tesla Retreats From Threats to Sue Cybertruck Resellers Elon Musk walked back language to sue Cybertruck resellers for $50,000 just days after the agreement was introduced.
Maxwell Zeff News Your Uber Driver May Soon Mount Your TV With Uber Tasks Uber is launching a TaskRabbit-like service in Florida and Canada in the coming weeks.
Maxwell Zeff Gadgets View all Gadgets Nothing Phone (2) Offers Possible Solution to Blue, Green Bubble Drama Is Nothing Chats the answer to the digital classism on the mobile market? Oscar Gonzalez Gadgets Leica Hopes Its New $9,500 Camera Can Save Photojournalism From AI In an age when digital imagery is increasingly vulnerable to online manipulation, Leica wants the M11-P to produce photos that can be trusted.
Lucas Ropek Gadgets Google's Keyboard Cap…Cap Actually Types, and You Can Make One Yourself The Gboard CAPS are the latest head-turning device designed by the Google Japan team.
Kyle Barr Gadgets Meta May Ship Far Fewer Quest 3 Headsets than Quest 2 Mark Zuckerberg’s company is reportedly laying off members of its Reality Labs division, pointing to more struggles for Meta's metaverse ambitions.
Kyle Barr Privacy and Security View all Privacy and Security Encrypted Email Service Tuta Denies It's a 'Honeypot' for Five Eyes Intelligence For years, Tutanota (which recently rebranded to "Tuta") has been a trusted email provider. A former Canadian cop has accused it of being a honeypot.
Lucas Ropek Privacy and Security One of Apple's Privacy Features Has 'Never Worked' Apple has been caught, yet again, hawking a "privacy" feature that does not actually function.
Lucas Ropek Privacy and Security Google's Chrome Browser Could Soon Help You Hide Your IP Address It’s not exactly a VPN, and it will only work with Google-owned domains to start, but it could offer users more ways to hide their activity online.
Kyle Barr Privacy and Security Signal Says It Has No Evidence Supporting Reports of a Zero-Day Bug Rumors have been circulating that the encrypted chat app has a bad vulnerability. There's no evidence to support that, execs say.
Lucas Ropek Streaming Services View all Streaming Services Peacock Is Adding The Exorcist: Believer to Your Christmas Stocking The sequel hits the streamer almost exactly 50 years after the original Exorcist premiered in December 1973.
Cheryl Eddy Streaming Services Get Your Classic Doctor Who Fix for Free on Tubi The ad-supported free streamer just added over 600 episodes of the sci-fi series dating back to 1963.
Cheryl Eddy Streaming Services MoviePass Enters the Future, Announces a Virtual Card Months after the return of the subscription service's physical card, customers can now opt to use a virtual card in the app instead.
Cheryl Eddy Streaming Services A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving Streams Free for a Limited Time on Apple TV+ You'll have to get your annual dose of Charlie Brown's football and Snoopy's feasts this weekend if you're not an Apple TV+ subscriber.
Cheryl Eddy Shopping View all The Inventory Amazon's Black Friday Deals Takes 35% Off the Amazon eero 6+ mesh Wi-Fi...
Unwavering connectivity and an expansive coverage of up to 6,000 sq. ft.
The Inventory Bot The Inventory Amazon's Black Friday is Live, and Gaming Has Discounts Up To 57% Gaming headsets, video games, gaming mice, and more are discounted to all time… The Inventory Bot The Inventory The Bestselling Govee Envisual TV LED Backlight is 43% Off for Black...
The Govee Envisual TV LED Backlight T2, equipped with cutting-edge technology,… The Inventory Bot The Inventory Save 25% on the 2020 MacBook Air with M1 Chip for Black Friday Packed with outstanding features and an all-day battery, it's a deal you can't… The Inventory Bot Politics View all Politics Biden Names 31 'Tech Hubs' Across the U.S. That Can Nab Up to $75 Million Each Tech hubs will produce research, products, and technology relating to nearly every section of the industry, including AI, semiconductors, and biotechnology.
Kevin Hurler Politics FCC Votes to Begin Reinstatement of Net Neutrality It's the first step in bringing back open internet protections.
Oscar Gonzalez Politics Donald Trump Jr. Tweets That His Dad Died, Says He Was Hacked Trump Jr.'s account trash-talked North Korea, Joe Biden, and Logan Paul.
Mack DeGeurin Politics Twitter 'Nickel and Dimed' Feds for Trump's Personal Data Twitter's lawyers sparred with the government over notifying Trump about the data request.
Mack DeGeurin Tech Policy View all Tech Policy Maine Overwhelmingly Votes 'Yes' for Right to Repair Cars Car manufacturers will be required to give independent mechanics access to the same diagnostic software and parts they give to authorized repair shops.
Mack DeGeurin Tech Policy Lawmakers Say FBI Can Keep Its Prized Surveillance Tool, but It'll Need a Warrant Lawmakers from both sides of the aisle said they would only reauthorize FISA Section 702 if the feds agree to new warrant requirements.
Mack DeGeurin Tech Policy No, TikTok (Probably) Isn't Anti-Israel Prominent Republican lawmakers jumped on shoddy analyses appearing to show overwhelming pro-Palestinian bias on TikTok. The truth is more complicated.
Mack DeGeurin Tech Policy New Google Trial Docs May Explain Why Search Sucks So Bad Now New documents in the Google antitrust trial show how tension between product and advertising teams could lead to degraded experiences for consumers.
Mack DeGeurin Culture View all Culture College Students Dump Dating Apps as Bumble CEO Steps Down ‘It’s not you, it’s me’ is the gist of college student qualms with dating apps. Hook-up culture declines while young people search for genuine connection.
Maxwell Zeff Culture You Can Now Read the Whole Earth Catalog Online The once popular counterculture magazine that helped usher in cyberculture is now digitally available to all.
Lucas Ropek Culture The Worst YouTube Apology Videos of All Time Colleen Ballinger's ukulele song, Sienna Mae Gomez's interpretive dance, and Jeffree Star's voguing are only the tip of the iceberg.
Kevin Hurler Hip Hop: 73 Till Infinity ‘Race Records’ to AI Drake: How Tech Produced Key Moments in Hip-Hop Beginning with looping a sample on a turntable in 1973, hip-hop’s evolution into the present day has technology baked into its DNA.
Kevin Hurler Gaming View all Gaming Amazon Restructures Games Division to Refocus on Prime Gaming, Lays Off 180 The retail giant isn't doing so hot in the video game market.
Oscar Gonzalez Gaming Rockstar Is Ready to Show You GTA 6 … Almost It only took them 10 years to crank out another Grand Theft Auto game but Rockstar is finally ready to put its GTA Online cash cow out to pasture.
Oscar Gonzalez Gaming Sony Pulls Plug on X/Twitter Integration on PS4 and PS5 Elon Musk posted on X that he will "look into" this.
Oscar Gonzalez Gaming Atari Moves Closer to Retro Gaming Throne With Digital Eclipse Acquisition The company behind remakes and reimaginings like The Cowabunga Collection and The Blizzard Arcade Collection says it can still make the games it wants.
Kyle Barr Transportation View all Transportation Tesla Investors Call for Elon Musk to Be Suspended, Apple Pulls Ads on X Several investors, tech leaders, and government officials have condemned Elon’s comments on Jews.
Maxwell Zeff Transportation Cruise Recalls Robotaxis Following a Dragging of Pedestrian Cruise is fixing the way its driverless vehicles respond to an accident with a software update.
Nikki Main Transportation Waze's Crash History Alerts Warn Drivers If They're on a Dangerous Road The app uses traffic and elevation data to gauge which roads are the most treacherous at different times of the day.
Kyle Barr Transportation Revel Is Reportedly Getting Out of the Moped Business Revel briefly shut down its NYC moped service in 2021 following two fatal crashes and fully eliminated the service in D.C. and Miami the following year.
Nikki Main Crime View all Crime Uber Accused of Not Doing Enough to Prevent Sexual Assault in Consolidated Lawsuit Uber reported it received more than 3,800 reports of riders claiming they were sexually assaulted by their drivers between 2019 and 2020.
Nikki Main Crime The Completely Unbelievable Story of the ‘Deepfake Cheer Mom’ Sloppy cops said a woman fabricated a video of her daughter's teammate. She's suing for defamation. Who is at fault when the deepfakes aren't fake at all? Mack DeGeurin Crime H&R Block, Meta, and Google Slapped With RICO Suit, Allegedly Schemed to Scrape Taxpayer Data “H&R Block, Google, and Meta ignored data privacy laws, and passed information about people’s financial lives around like candy,” one attorney said.
Mack DeGeurin Crime British Museum Asks Public for Help Locating Stolen Artifacts An antiquities dealer was reportedly rebuffed by the British Museum in 2021 after he warned the British Museum that artifacts were stolen.
Nikki Main Artificial Intelligence View all Artificial Intelligence ChatGPT Is Apparently a Great Surveillance Tool A Russian spyware company is using the chatbot to spy on web users. Plus: WTF happened to Sam Altman? Lucas Ropek Artificial Intelligence OpenAI Fires CEO Sam Altman Sam Altman has been ousted by the Board of Directors at OpenAI and is replaced by Mira Murati.
Maxwell Zeff Artificial Intelligence The Best of OpenAI’s New GPTs, Ranked Everyone will soon get a chance to use GPTs, the new technology from OpenAI that could open Pandora's box on generative AI.
Maxwell Zeff Artificial Intelligence From Fake Drakes to Robo-Weathermen, Here Are the Top AI Stories You Missed This Week Take a quick look at the newest and weirdest happenings in AI.
Lucas Ropek Cryptocurrencies View all Cryptocurrencies Crypto Bros Report Burning Eyes and Skin at Bored Ape Bacchanal Attendees at a Bored Ape Yacht Club NFT event say they had to go to the hospital and the burns are believed to be related to UV light from the video screens.
Mack DeGeurin Cryptocurrencies SBF Is Headed to Prison But FTX Will Haunt the Crypto Community For Years As its top executive heads to prison, FTX is sharing its customers' data with the federal government.
Lucas Ropek Cryptocurrencies Sam Bankman-Fried Found Guilty in Crypto Trial A verdict from twelve jurors found SBF guilty of defrauding FTX customers out of $10 billion with his crypto empire.
Maxwell Zeff Cryptocurrencies SBF Testifies That Alameda Only 'Borrowed' Customer Funds Many of his claims contradict testimonies from other former FTX and Alameda executives.
Maxwell Zeff Amazon View all Amazon Amazon Wants to Sell You a Car With Your Toilet Paper No word on whether your new car will have next day shipping.
Oscar Gonzalez Amazon Amazon to Ditch Clothing Stores, Wants More Grocery Stores Instead Amazon shut down 68 physical retail stores last year, citing a shift in focus.
Nikki Main Amazon FTC Alleges Amazon Used a Price-Gouging Algorithm Jeff Bezos’s e-commerce giant allegedly manipulated prices to the tune of $1 billion, but Amazon refutes that was the true purpose of 'Project Nessie.' Maxwell Zeff Amazon Amazon's Takeover of Roomba-maker on Course for Approval by February EU regulators are concerned Amazon's deal with iRobot is anti-competitive for the worldwide marketplace of robot vacuum cleaners.
Maxwell Zeff Apple View all Apple The iPhone 16 Could Be Cooler Than the iPhone 15, Literally Leaks suggest the iPhone 16 may contain hardware updates to address overheating issues, despite Apple’s claims that none are needed.
Maxwell Zeff Apple Apple Will Reportedly Appeal EU's Gatekeeping Claims European regulators challenged Apple’s exclusivity with the Digital Markets Act, but the tech giant isn’t going down without a fight.
Maxwell Zeff Apple Apple Settles for $25M on Illegal Hiring Discrimination Allegations Apple agreed to pay penalties and back pay over allegations it had used worse recruitment tools for U.S. citizens and residents.
Kyle Barr Apple Google Asks Regulators to Liberate Apple's Blue Text Bubbles Yes, even Google appears to be tired of green texts on the iMessage app.
Maxwell Zeff Facebook View all Facebook Meta Is Asking Users for Handouts Amid New Regulations in Europe For now, the subscription fee will cover all additional linked accounts, but Meta will charge for those extra profiles in the spring.
Kevin Hurler Facebook 33 States Sue Meta, Say It Knowingly Addicted Kids to Social Media The lawsuit comes after nearly two years of investigations into the company.
Maxwell Zeff Facebook Instagram Apologizes for Putting 'Terrorist' In Palestinian Users' Bios Meta says the problem was fixed last week. It's the platform's latest struggle in moderating content around the conflict in Israel and Palestine.
Maxwell Zeff Facebook Meta Plans to Grow Threads By Ramming Its Posts to Facebook Meta introduced a similar carousel into Instagram feeds this past August, and its been an insufferable experience using the platform ever since.
Kevin Hurler Google View all Google Google’s ChatGPT Competitor Will Have to Wait If you’ve been asking, “Where is Google’s version of ChatGPT?”, you’re not alone.
Maxwell Zeff Google YouTube Now Sells the AI Soul of Your Favorite Musician Dream Track allows musicians to license out their voices with AI, just days after YouTube cracked down on AI on its platform.
Maxwell Zeff Google Google Witness Spills How Much Apple Gets From Safari Search Revenue Google’s main litigator visibly cringed when he heard an economic professor reveal how much Google pays to be Apple’s dominant search engine.
Maxwell Zeff Google Google Sues Hackers Exploiting AI Hype With Alleged Bard Scams If you get a Facebook ad to download Google’s AI chatbot, Bard, you’re probably about to get hacked.
Maxwell Zeff Microsoft View all Microsoft Begun, the AI Chip Wars Have 'We have Nvidia GPUs at home,' is essentially what CEO Satya Nadella said at Microsoft Ignite, in hopes of cutting costs.
Maxwell Zeff Microsoft Microsoft Chief Says More Games Coming, Regrets Dumping Windows Phone CEO Satya Nadella also claims competition will be bad for AI.
Kyle Barr Microsoft Microsoft Fixes Excel Feature That Forced Scientists to Rename Human Genes Microsoft now allows users to disable automatic date conversion, which means scientists no longer have to worry about using alternative names for genes.
Dua Rashid Microsoft Microsoft Shuts Down the Windows 7 to Windows 11 Pipeline You can no longer get free access to Windows 10 and 11 if you’re upgrading from Windows 7 or 8, though you can still go from 10 to 11.
Kyle Barr Samsung View all Samsung Practice Your Penmanship With the Samsung S Pen Creator Edition Samsung's fancy new pen is available now in the US for $99 Dua Rashid Samsung Samsung's One UI 6 Update Adds AI Camera Features to Level Up Your Photography From enhancing pictures to scanning documents, the new UI gives more functionality to the pro or amateur photographer.
Dua Rashid Samsung Samsung Announces the Galaxy SmartTag2 The SmartTag2 will be available on October 10 and offers a number of upgrades.
Dua Rashid Samsung Samsung Launches 'Food,' an AI-Driven Recipe App Samsung's Food app will bring users 160,000 tailored recipes across more than 100 countries using the database from its Whisk app.
Nikki Main Twitter View all Twitter As Banks Write Down X, Musk Offers Employee Stock Options Fidelity wrote down its valuation of X an additional 8% this September, with the bank reducing its valuation a total 65% over the prior 11 months.
Kevin Hurler Twitter You Can No Longer Make Money Posting Misinformation on X, Musk Claims X is one of the top social media platforms for spurring misleading or false information.
Nikki Main Twitter Elon 'Back to the Office' Musk Called in Remotely to First X All-Hands The billionaire owner and CEO Linda Yaccarino dialed in from out of town, vaguely touting new features that will roll out in the coming months.
Kevin Hurler Twitter One Year On: The 12 Worst Moments of Elon Musk's Twitter Takeover From cutting reproductive care to climate misinformation running rampant, Twitter under Elon Musk has been a shitshow from start to its one-year anniversary.
Kevin Hurler Advertisement
