X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Innovation Part of a ZDNET Special Feature: Home Innovation Artificial Intelligence 5 essential traits that tomorrow's AI leader must have Written by Mark Samuels, Contributor Nov. 8, 2023 at 12:19 p.m. PT Danai Jetawattana/Getty Images If your company isn't already implementing artificial intelligence (AI) technology, then it will be during the next few years.
Also: AI at the edge: Fast times ahead for 5G and the Internet of Things Special Feature The Future of AI, Jobs, and Automation We've entered a period of dramatic innovation in AI and automation and it's going to have a significant impact on the future of jobs, productivity, and the ways we operate in teams. Research predicts that worker productivity could increase by as much as 4x by 2030, powered by AI. We unpack the opportunities and the ways to benefit from this transformation.
Read now From machine learning and analytics to bots and generative tools, AI is being embedded in technologies and businesses around the globe.
Someone senior in the organization will need to oversee these implementations.
So, what are the five essential characteristics that make up a successful AI leader ? Five executives suggest the capabilities that will define the role.
1. Visionary Mukul Agrawal, director of technology at Vistaprint, says the great AI leaders of the future will not be your typical IT chiefs.
"These are going to be very different roles," he says. "You'll have to think about things from a very deep perspective. Any director of AI will need to be more technical than a director of engineering." Agrawal says in a video interview with ZDNET that future AI leaders will also need to have a clear viewpoint on future directions.
"And not just one year, but five years or 10 years," he says. "And they'll have to have expertise in these emerging areas as well." Agrawal says it's crucial to remember that AI technologies aren't built overnight. While the rise of ChatGPT and other generative AIs during the past year has been remarkable, their emergence was prefaced by many years of development and refinement.
"The journey takes time," he says. "People will need to have patience and better long-term vision in these roles, and they will have to be more technical in nature than anything else." Also: Your AI experiments will fail if you don't focus on this special ingredient However, Agrawal says the opportunities are considerable for senior professionals who have patience, an awareness of the total cost of ownership, and an eye on value-generating opportunities.
"People in these roles can be very successful," he says. "You will have to be ahead of the curve in technology to be a director of AI." 2. Influencer Lily Haake, head of technology and digital executive search at recruiter Harvey Nash, also believes a technical grounding is important for successful AI chiefs.
"A successful AI leader will need to have a technical grounding that most of us just don't have," she says. "They'll need to understand AI technologies, machine learning, computer vision, AI frameworks, and algorithms." However, Haake says technical aptitude must be allied to soft skills: "Amazing commercial acumen, strategic ability, spotting opportunities, horizon scanning, and then leadership." Also: Six skills you need to become an AI prompt engineer In fact, she believes one leadership skill is going to be crucial: influence.
"This person is going to have to influence their peer group, right across every department," she says in a video conversation with ZDNET.
"Those soft skills and that ability to drive change -- without having direct line-management accountability -- is going to be important. It's quite a person we're describing because they're a techie, but with phenomenal leadership skills.
" 3. Builder Nigel Richardson, SVP & CIO Europe at PepsiCo, says successful digital leaders today understand business operations and possess the leadership skills to inspire others across the organization.
Future AI leaders will need to understand what really drives competitive advantage -- and that's going to involve a blend of traditional and emerging technologies.
"Spending time getting to know all areas of their business end to end is critical," he says, replying to ZDNET via email.
"You'll need to think strategically about where the business is heading and look into the future -- whatever that may look like." Also: Leadership alert: The dust will never settle and generative AI can help Richardson says successful leaders will be the ones who continually build talent and find the balance between ground-breaking technologies that have tangible business impact, while retaining the core skills needed to run flawless day-to-day operations.
"To do so, we need to fully embrace modern technology and processes to increase the pace at which new capabilities are deployed. We're already making huge strides in this area," he says.
"From the widespread adoption of cloud and software as a service to rapidly embedding AI/ML into solutions, we are developing advanced capabilities at an incredible rate. Understanding how to build robust, secure, and scalable platforms on which all teams can build digital products will also be a key capability." 4. Connector Great ideas for digital innovation don't come just from the IT department. Lisa Diehl, director of consumer care at Freshpet, is considering how a generative AI tool like ChatGPT might be used to help bolster customer service.
"I'd like to be able to integrate some of what we're doing today to make things a little bit easier," she says to ZDNET in a one-to-one video interview.
Also: AI safety and bias: Untangling the complex chain of AI training "I know there's a lot of concern around IT and security issues.
 Everyone's understandably moving at a snail's pace on AI right now to make sure they think very carefully about how we might use it." Diehl is no stranger to AI-enabled applications. She's already using Emplifi's AI-powered chatbot technology to answer customer queries automatically and to allow employees to focus on high-priority consumer issues that need a human touch.
She says AI leadership success will rely on someone being able to connect the dots in terms of challenges and opportunities.
Also: Two divergent skills that matter in an AI world: Math and business development "We collect a lot of data around consumer care and the voice of the consumer," she says.
"That information goes down our innovation pipeline and over to our marketing teams. It's critical that the data we are collecting is making its way through our organization." 5. All-rounder Sasha Jory, CIO at insurance firm Hastings Direct, says the AI leader of the future will need a kitbag of skills.
"They'll need to be adaptable," she says. "The business will require a person who has experience with customers, who understands the market, and who knows their work colleagues." Jory, who spoke with ZDNET at the recent London leg of Snowflake's Data Cloud World Tour , also points to the importance of understanding new risks and challenges in a fast-moving marketplace, and the ability to consider how these threats and opportunities related to work activities.
Also: Nearly 10% of people ask AI chatbots for explicit content. Will it lead LLMs astray? "They'll need to understand good behaviors and bad behaviors," she says. "They'll need to understand that success in AI is such an important thing to be able to achieve. But they'll also need to recognize how bad AI could be bad for everybody; bad for business, bad for customers, bad for colleagues." Jory says the upshot is the successful AI leader is going to require more skills than just an aptitude for emerging technologies: "I think that would be somebody who's more of an all-rounder than somebody who's just a technologist." Artificial Intelligence Can ChatGPT predict the future? Training AI to figure out what happens next Can AI curb loneliness in older adults? This robot companion is proving it's possible How AI in smart home tech can automate your life Robots plus generative AI: Everything you need to know when they work as one Editorial standards Show Comments Community Guidelines Related Does your business need a chief AI officer? Thanks to my 5 favorite AI tools, I'm working smarter now 6 ways business leaders are exploring generative AI at work ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
