X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Tech Why you can trust ZDNET : ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Our process 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
Home Tech Computing PCs The best all-in-one computers you can buy Written by Charles McLellan, Senior Editor Cesar Cadenas, Contributing Writer Oct. 2, 2023 at 12:25 p.m. PT Nina Raemont View now View at B&H Photo View now View at Dell View now View at Amazon View now View at Amazon View now View at Best Buy View now View at Best Buy View now View at Amazon All-in-one (AIO) computers can do it all. It can save you valuable desk space thanks to the lack of a tower and fewer cables. They even have pretty stylish designs. However, there are drawbacks like less power, upgradability, and repairability than a traditional PC at the same price point. All of that means choosing the right AIO is essential.
An AIO is likely a great fit for many remote workers who need a space-efficient computer with a decent-sized screen and no longer need to transport a laptop between the office and home.
Also: The 5 best gaming PCs ZDNET went hands-on with many of the best all-in-one computers in various categories, covering different price points, use cases, and operating systems. Our top pick is Apple's 24-inch iMac for its strong performance, striking design, and display. Read on for the rest of our picks to help you find the best AIO computer for you.
The best all-in-one computers of 2023 Apple iMac 24-inch (M1, 2021) Best all-in-one computer overall Jason Hiner/ZDNET Pros & Cons Striking, slimline design Strong performance Good webcam, speakers and microphone Bright, colorful 4.5K Retina display Limited connectivity on base configuration Can't adjust screen height or rotation No user upgrades or repairs No discrete or external GPU options More Details Apple iMac 24-inch (M1, 2021) specs: OS: MacOS Monterey (MacOS 12) | CPU: Apple M1 (8-core) | GPU: Apple M1 (7-core or 8-core) | RAM: 8GB, 16GB (unified memory) | Storage 256GB, 512GB, 1TB, 2TB (8-core GPU models)| Camera: 1080p FaceTime HD | Audio: 3 mics, 6 speakers (2x woofers, 4x tweeters) | Dimensions: 21.5 x 18.1 x 5.8 inches | Weight: 9.83/9.88 lbs Apple's M1-based 24-inch iMac, released in May 2021, is the company's first AIO to run on Apple Silicon.
 It's also the only current iMac, as Apple discontinued its Intel-based iMac Pro in March 2021 and the 27-inch iMac in March 2022.
Built around a 24-inch 4.5K Retina display, the current iMac is impressively slim thanks to the highly integrated design of the M1 SoC (system-on-chip), with the screen panel measuring just 11.5mm thick. The entry-level configuration comes in four colors (blue, green, pink, and silver), while the more expensive models (with an 8-core GPU) add yellow, orange, and purple to the palette.
There are three off-the-page configurations, starting at $1,299 for a model with an 8-core CPU and 7-core GPU, 16GB of RAM, 256GB of storage, two Thunderbolt 3/USB 4 ports, and a Magic Keyboard. Stepping up to $1,499 buys you an 8-core GPU, two more on-board (USB-C) ports, and a Gigabit Ethernet port built into the power supply, plus Touch ID on the Magic Keyboard. The $1,699 model has 512GB of storage. A fully maxed-out configuration (16GB RAM, 2TB storage, Magic Mouse+Magic Trackpad, Magic Keyboard with Touch ID, and numeric keypad) will run you $2,658.
Review: Apple iMac 24-inch (M1, 2021) The striking design of the 24-inch M1 iMac makes it suitable for both homes and offices, and the performance and power efficiency of the M1 SoC is impressive. However, it carries a high price tag, and you'll need to ensure that the specification you order will cover the system's expected lifetime because user upgrades are not an option.
View now at B&H Photo View now at Best Buy View now at Walmart more buying choices Dell Inspiron 24 All-In-One Best configurable all-in-one computer June Wan/ZDNET Pros & Cons Reliable 13th Gen Intel processor options Highly configurable Minimalist design Two-leg mount leaves few placement options Can get pricey for the touchscreen option More Details Dell Inspiron 24 All-In-One specs: OS: Windows 11 | CPU: AMD Ryzen 3/5/7, 13th-gen Intel Core i3/i5/i7 | GPU: Intel Iris Xe/UHD Graphics, NVIDIA GeForce MX550 | RAM: 8GB, 16GB | Storage 128GB, 512GB, 1TB SSD | Camera: 1080p at 30fps | Audio: Stereo speakers with Waves MaxxAudio Pro 12, 3.5mm audio in/out | Dimensions: 21.36 x 16.21 x 7.90 inches | Weight: 11.55 lbs Given the compact nature of AIO computers, they're not as repair-friendly as the standard desktop or laptop. Should a display or internal component become damaged, there's a good chance that you'll have to replace everything as the fix.
 That means when you are buying an AIO, it helps to be able to pick the exact configuration that you want and need, including the display type, processor, graphics card, and more.
Also: How much RAM does your Windows 11 PC need? Dell's Inspiron 24 All-In-One gets ZDNET's recommendation for its customizability and reliability across the board. The system can be configured with various levels of both the latest AMD and Intel processors, Intel Iris Xe or UHD graphics (or even an NVIDIA GeForce MX550), and up to 1TB of internal storage. You can up the RAM to 16GB, too, but the base 8GB should be more than enough for casual users.
The model that ZDNET tested included a touchscreen display, which made navigating the 24-inch panel a very efficient experience. One thing to note is that the Dell features a two-leg base stand, which allows the computer to instantly modernize the office space it's in -- at the expense of placement flexibility.
View now at Dell HP All-In-One 22 Best budget all-in-one computer HP/ZDNET Pros & Cons Smart design Affordable Modest performance No USB-C ports HD webcam 250 nits screen More Details HP All-In-One 22 specs: OS: Windows 11 | CPU: AMD Athlon 3150U, 12th-gen Intel Core i3-1215U | GPU: AMD Radeon Graphics, Intel UDHD Graphics (integrated) | RAM: 8GB, 16GB | Storage 128GB SSD, 1TB HDD | Camera: HP Truevision HD privacy camera | Audio: Dual array mics, dual speakers, 3.5mm audio in/out | Dimensions: 19.30 x 14.99 x 8.05 inches | Weight: 12.56 lbs AIO computers can be pricey, but that's not the case with HP's All-In-One 22, which starts as low as $500 with an AMD Athlon 3150U processor, but gets a bit pricier when equipped with a 12th-generation Intel Core i3-1215U. The Athlon model is unusual as it sports a DVD writer, which is a rare sight on any computer these days. Do note this legacy component is not available on the Core i3 version.
Also: How much RAM does your Windows 11 PC need? For a budget computer, the All-In-One 22 has a sleek look with its 21.5-inch FHD IPS screen sitting above a speaker grille and resting on a stand fashioned from tubular metal. As a neat privacy measure, the webcam (HD only) pops up from the top of the screen only when in use.
You can't expect powerhouse performance from a computer based on the Athlon 3150U or Core i3-1215U, even with the maximum memory amount of 16GB on board. But if you adjust your use case expectations, the HP All-In-One 22 is an excellent budget choice.
View now at Amazon View now at Best Buy more buying choices HP Chromebase All-In-One 22 Best ChromeOS all-in-one computer HP/ZDNET Pros & Cons Inexpensive Adjustable display lightweight system Modest performance Small storage space More Details HP Chromebase All-In-One 22 specs: OS: ChromeOS | CPU: Intel Pentium Gold 6450U | GPU: Intel UHD Graphics 600 | Storage: 128GB SSD, 256GB PCIe NVMe M.2 SSD | Camera: HP True Vision 5 MP camera | Audio: Dual 5W Speakers from B&O | Dimensions: 19.98 x 6.87 x 17.89 in ( mm) | Weight: 15.37 lb If you're looking for another cheap option, allow us to introduce the HP Chromebase All-In-One 22. It shares some similarities with the previous entry, the HP All-In-One 22, such as the integrated Intel UHD Graphics GPU and its 21.5-inch Full HD screen. But there are some notable differences. The main one is the fact it runs the lightweight ChromeOS, meaning it has better performance than its Windows 11 counterpart. It won't be bogged down by bloatware or apps you will never use. It's a streamlined system hosting only the quintessential software you need.
Also: The best Chromebooks you can buy, starting at $312 However, it won't be a workhorse as it operates on an Intel Pentium Gold 6450U processor although it gets the job done. What's particularly interesting about the HP Chromebase is its flexible hinge. You can turn it a full 90 degrees into portrait mode which is great for viewing photographs or reading documents. The big benefit is you won't have to continuously scroll through the file. It's small, but it is a nice quality-of-life feature to have. Before you ask, we know what you're thinking. Yes, the Chromebase's display is indeed a touchscreen. Google Assistant is supported, so if you prefer using voice commands or just like the novelty of them, you have that option.
All this could be yours for less than $600, a great price point for the mid-range performance that you getting.
View now at Amazon Microsoft Surface Studio 2+ Best all-in-one computer for creatives Microsoft/ZDNET Pros & Cons Elegant design, solid build Flexible screen hinge Excellent 28-inch 3:2 screen Good GPU performance Three Thunderbolt 4 ports 11th-generation rather than 12th-generation CPU Screen bezels could be narrower No SD card reader More Details Microsoft Surface Studio 2+ specs: OS: Windows 11 Pro | CPU: Intel Core i7-11370H | GPU: GeForce RTX 3060 Laptop GPU, GeForce RTX 3060 Laptop GPU (6GB) | RAM: 32GB (DDR4) | Storage: 1TB SSD | Camera: 1080p + IR for Windows Hello face authentication | Audio: stereo 2.1 speakers with Dolby Atmos, dual far-field studio mics, 3.5mm headphone jack | Dimensions: Base: 9.8 x 8.7 x 1.2 inches • Display: 25.1 x 17.3 x 0.5 inches | Weight: 21 lbs Launched back in October 2018, Microsoft's Surface Studio 2, a 28-inch AIO computer, was well-received by reviewers and users alike. However, by 2022 it had become distinctly long in the tooth, being based on 7th-generation Intel Core processors -- well behind today's 13th-generation silicon. However, the Surface Studio's innovative and versatile design holds up quite well, thanks in part to the clever 'zero gravity' screen hinge. It's worth pointing out these choices have clearly influenced the 2021 Surface Laptop Studio.
That said, the Surface Studio 2 was in need of an update, which arrived in October 2022 via the Surface Studio 2+.
 The new model retains the same industrial design as its predecessor but now runs on an 11th-generation Core i7 processor for "up to 50 percent faster CPU performance," adding a 30-series Nvidia GeForce RTX GPU for "double the graphics performance", according to Microsoft.
Review: Microsoft Surface Studio 2+: Elegant, flexible all-in-one PC gets an upgrade However, that '2+' naming drops a heavy hint that nothing revolutionary has occurred here, although the $1,000 price hike from $3,500 (Studio 2) to $4,500 (Studio 2+) for the entry-level configuration does suggest some significant evolutionary upgrades -- notably Nvidia's GeForce RTX 3060 Laptop GPU with 6GB of dedicated video memory, a mid-range GPU capable of handling fairly demanding graphical applications. Wireless connections get upgrades too, from 2018-era Wi-Fi 5 and Bluetooth 4.1 to Wi-Fi 6 and Bluetooth 5.2.
View now at Best Buy HP Envy 34 All-In-One (2022) Best large-screen all-in-one computer HP/ZDNET Pros & Cons 34-inch 5K display Highly configurable Good performance Versatile design Accessible RAM and SSD slots Display doesn't swivel No internal expansion slots More Details HP Envy 34 All-In-One (2022) specs: OS: Windows 11 (Home or Pro) | CPU: Intel Core i5-11400, i7-11700, i9-11900 | GPU: Nvidia GeForce GTX 1650 (4GB), Nvidia GeForce RTX 3060 (6GB), Nvidia GeForce RTX 3080 (8GB)| RAM: 16GB, 32GB, 64GB, 128GB| Storage 512GB, 1TB, 2TB | Camera 16MP (detachable, moveable)| Audio: Dual 2W speakers (tuned by B&O)| Dimensions 32.2 x 14.5 x 8.78 inches| Weight: 24.4 lbs Creators and power users often need the largest screen possible, and that's what HP has delivered in the shape of the Envy 34 All-In-One , announced in September 2021.
The display is a 34-inch IPS panel with 5K (WUHD) resolution, 500 nits brightness, an anti-reflection coating, a low blue light mode, and a claimed screen-to-body ratio of 98.6%. It supports 98% of the DCI-P3 color gamut and is color-calibrated out of the box. The screen is height- and tilt-adjustable, but there's no swivel support.
The HP Envy does have some nice touches including a detachable magnetic 16MP webcam that can be placed anywhere on the top, bottom, or sides of the display and Qi wireless charging built into the stand base. Even more welcome is access to the RAM and SSD slots via a panel at the rear – an unusual feature on an AIO. There's also a good array of connections, including two 40Gbps Thunderbolt 4/USB 4 ports.
Review: HP Envy 34 All-In-One Desktop The HP Envy 34 All-In-One configurations hover around $2,150 with a Core i7-11700 CPU, Nvidia GeForce GTX 1650 GPU, 16GB of DDR4 RAM, and a 1TB PICe NVMe TLC SSD. There is a cheaper option on Amazon which has a Core i5-12400 CPU, 16GB of RAM, and a 512GB SSD.
View now at Best Buy Lenovo IdeaCentre AIO 5i (27-inch) All-In-One Best all-in-one-computer for entertainment Lenovo/ZDNET Pros & Cons Great looking 27-inch touchscreen Two JBL-certified speakers Supports WiFi 6E for fast connectivity Tons of ports Comes with wireless keyboard and mouse Performance from Intel Iris Xe GPU may disappoint some No option for 1TB of storage More Details Lenovo IdeaCentre AIO 5i (27-inch) All in One specs: OS: Windows 11 | CPU: 12th-gen Intel Core i7-12700H, 12th-gen Intel Core i7-13700H | GPU: Intel Iris Xe (integrated) | Storage: up to 512 GB | Camera: 5MP pop-up | Audio: 2x 5W JBL-certified stereo speakers | Dimensions: 18.66 x 24.20 x 7.38 inches | Weight: 19.4 lbs Let's be honest here: we all slack off from work sometimes. Admit it. When do you slack off to watch a movie, do it in style with the 27-inch Lenovo IdeaCentre AIO 5i. It sports a high-resolution Quad HD (2560x1440) display covered in an anti-glare coating with a refresh rate of 100Hz ensuring a great viewing experience.
What would watching your favorite movie be without sound? The IdeaCentre AIO 5i comes equipped with dual 5W JBL speakers capable of filling a room with "power and resonance." Lenovo states these drivers are three decibels louder than previous generations further enriched with "fuller bass." Also: The best 4K monitors of 2023 Of course, regarding work, the IdeaCentre AIO 5i is no slouch. Performance is pretty good thanks to a combination of your choice of Intel i7 processor and 16GB of DDR5 RAM. Although the Intel Iris Xe GPU and storage capacity of up to 512GB leaves much to be desired. On the other hand, it does keep the price relatively low at $1,080 which isn't all that bad.
Other notable features include 10 different ports ranging from a headphone jack to USB inputs, support for Wi-Fi 6E for fast connectivity, and a Qi-certified wireless charger in the stand for your smartphone. Speaking of phones, you can project your mobile device's screen to the IdeaCentre AIO 5i via One Cable Link.
View now at Amazon What is the best all-in-one computer? The Apple iMac 24-inch (M1, 2021) is ZDNET's top choice. But one size doesn't fit all. See our comparison chart below to quickly see how the iMac differs from all the other top AIO PCs on our list.
All- in- One Computer Screen size Price ( starting at) OS Apple iMac 24-inch (M1, 2021) 24 inches $945 MacOS Dell Inspiron 24 All-In-One 24 inches $499 Windows HP All-in-One 22 22 inches $461 Windows HP Chromebase All-In-One 22 22 inches $585 ChromeOS Microsoft Surface Studio 2+ 28 inches $4,500 Windows HP Envy 34 All-In-One (2022) 34 inches $2,043 Windows Lenovo IdeaCentre AIO 5i All-In-One 27 inches $1,200 Windows Which all-in-one computer is right for you? Ultimately, you need to choose the AIO that can really be your all-in-one. After all, one size doesn't fit all.
Overall, we think Apple's 24-inch M1-based iMac is premium due to its combination of design and all-around performance, although some potential buyers will be put off by MacOS, and others by the premium price. Windows fans also have lots to choose from. See the comparison chart below to quickly see how the iMac differs from other AIO market leaders.
Apple iMac 24-inch (M1, 2021) The best all-in-one computer overall, equipped with a 4.5K Retina display and plenty of storage. With a striking design of the 24-inch M1 iMac, it's unobtrusive and sleek for homes and offices alike.
Dell Inspiron 24 All-In-One An all-in-one computer with the highest configurability, from the type of display to Intel or AMD processor to internal storage.
HP All-In-One 22 The best budget all-in-one computer. It still offers a DVD writer, a sleek look, and an HD webcam that only pops open when in use.
HP Chromebase All-In-One 22 The best ChromeOS all-in-one computer. It's budget-friendly, offers decent performance, and can turned 90 degrees upright for reading documents.
Microsft Surface Studio 2+ The best all-in-one computer for creative purposes. Running on an 11th-generation Corei7 processor and 30-series Nvidia GeForce, it offers beautiful (and fast) graphics.
HP Envy 34 All-In-One (2022) The best large-screen all-in-one computer. With a 34-inch IPS panel and 5K resolution, this anti-reflection, low blue light coated screen accounts for both beauty and practicality.
Lenovo IdeaCentre AIO 5i (27-inch) The best all-in-one computer for entertainment purposes. Sporting a Quad HD screen, room-filling JBL speakers, and Qi-certified wireless chargers, this device is a great choice for a centerpiece computer.
How did we choose these all-in-one computers? ZDNET experts conduct its own research and perform real-world testing by personally using these all-in-one computers. As part of our testing, we look for four major aspects and see if any of the devices meet our standards. Below is a list of the criteria the computers must meet.
Design: Design as a point of analysis factors in the size of an AIO computer as well as camera placement, speaker placement, and whether or not it's aesthetically pleasing. If you're going to spend money on something, you should want it to look good.
Performance: AIO computers, as a whole, don't have the best performance as they're meant to be easy-to-use, lightweight machines. Still, we keep an eye out for models that are able to balance hosting great hardware and affordability.
Display: Obviously, it's important to want and have an AIO computer with a great-looking screen since you'll be staring at one for hours. But we also consider unique capabilities like touchscreen functionality.
Features: Lastly, we consider the full suite of features an AIO computer has. Some, like the HP Chromebase, can turn vertically 90 degrees, while others may be able to output 5K resolution.
What is a disadvantage of an all-in-one computer? According to ZDNET's computer expert, June Wan, repairability is the biggest drawback to all-in-one computers.
"With space-saving in mind, the internal parts are typically weaved into the chassis so that there's little room for modification," he says. This also means that after the 4- to 8-year "sweet spot" period, you'd have to bring the entire system to a professional technician for a refresh.
Of course, there's also the price point to consider. AIO computers are typically more expensive than dedicated desktop computers.
Which is better: An all-in-one computer or a traditional desktop PC? It all depends on your priorities. If you value economy of space, as few cables as possible, a degree of transportability, and stylish design, you'll usually be better served by an AIO. On the other hand, if it's computer power, upgradability, and repairability you're after, then a traditional desktop PC will generally offer more for your money at the same price point.
Who would need an all-in-one computer? AIO computers are most ideal for users in confined spaces. The compact nature of the machines makes them fit for receptionist desks, dorms, medical centers, and other settings that need the desk space for other things.
Are there alternative AIO computers to consider? While the curated AIO computers listed above will suit your space, function, and budget needs, there are alternatives that vary in price, size, and functionality to consider as well. A few of them are listed below.
AIO Alternative Refurbished 27-inch iMac Originally released in August 2020, this refurbished 27-inch, 5K Retina display promises 8GB of memory, an Intel Core i5 processor, and Apple's exemplary performance.
View at Amazon AIO Alternative Lenovo - IdeaCentre AIO 3i 24-inch In a sleek, compact frame, the Lenovo IdeaCentre AIO 31 still holds plenty of storage and delivers reliable performance, all for a budget-friendly price.
View at Best Buy ZDNET Recommends The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you) The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick) The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money) Editorial standards Show Comments Community Guidelines Related The best laptops: Apple, Dell, Microsoft, and more compared The best smart notebooks you can buy, according to our hands-on testing The 60 best early Black Friday laptop deals: Amazon, Best Buy, Walmart, and more ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
