X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Tech Why you can trust ZDNET : ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Our process 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
Home Tech Wearables Smart Watches The best Apple Watches you can buy (and which are on sale for Black Friday) Written by Jason Hiner, Editor in Chief Nov. 17, 2023 at 1:20 p.m. PT Nina Raemont View now View at Amazon View now View at Best Buy View now View at Amazon View now View at Amazon View now View at Apple Apple Watch has been the best-selling watch brand in the world for half a decade.
 Since it's now available in over five different variants, if you are buying one for the first time or upgrading, it can be a challenge to figure out which model is right for you. Based on hands-on experience and testing, I'm going to help you sort through the different options to choose the best one for you, as well as call out any deals for your holiday shopping.
Also: The best early Black Friday Apple Watch deals While the Apple Watch started out as a fitness tracker that was slightly more sophisticated than a Fitbit , it has steadily expanded to become an expansive health monitoring device and a handy tool for fast access to information and apps. It can now check your heart rate, carry your boarding pass for a flight, identify a song that's playing nearby, open your garage door, alert you when it's about to rain, and guide you to breathe when you get stressed. And those are just a few examples.
All of the Apple Watch models below can do all of those things. Where they differ is in the sizes they come in, their styles, their colors, their prices, and a few extra features in the top models.
Also: The best smartwatches you can buy right now I've been wearing an Apple Watch every day since the first model launched in April 2015, and I've tried nearly every version since then. I've used and tested the various Apple Watch models to manage text messages, hike long trails, run countless smart home apps, work out with Apple Fitness Plus, track the weather on a daily basis, manage cooking timers in the kitchen, remind me of important tasks, and a lot more. Based on my years of testing, my pick for the best Apple Watch overall is the Apple Watch Ultra 2 , thanks to its large screen, over 24-hour battery life, and emergency siren. Read on to find out which Apple Watch model is right for you, and click through to see which are on sale during the holidays.
The best Apple Watches of 2023 Apple Watch Ultra 2 Best Apple Watch overall Jason Hiner/ZDNET Pros & Cons Larger, brighter, more useful screen Over 24-hour battery life Super durable Emergency Siren Too big for small wrists Double the price of the base Apple Watch Series 9 More Details Apple Watch Ultra 2 tech specs : Display Size: 49mm | Battery life: Up to 72 hours | Storage capacity: 64GB | Features: Sturdy titanium case and sapphire crystal face, enhanced safety features including a built-in siren, dual-frequency GPS, works up to 100 meters underwater The Apple Watch Ultra 2 offers a list of more exclusive features than any other Apple Watch model. That's why it became the new flagship model as soon as the first Ultra was released last year, and that's why it's the watch to buy if you want all the best features the Apple Watch has to offer.
The most notable and useful difference between the Ultra and the other Apple Watch models is the larger, brighter, flatter screen that makes it much better for viewing images texted to you, typing short responses to texts, seeing alerts from home security cameras, interacting with apps such as smart lights, checking the weather, navigating directions from map apps, and much more. The screen is 49mm, compared to 45mm on the largest Series 9, and the brightness is 3000 nits -- versus the 2000 nits of the Series 9.
Review: I spent a week with the Apple Watch Ultra 2 and here's what stood out the most The screen is covered by a sapphire crystal face and surrounded by a titanium case to considerably increase the amount of wear and tear it can handle. It's also IPX6 dust resistant, works underwater up to 100 meters (328 feet), and has military grade (MIL-STD 810H) certification for ruggedness. And, it can now handle high altitudes, shocks, vibrations, and temperatures as low as 4 degrees Fahrenheit and as high as 130 degrees Fahrenheit. I wouldn't call it indestructible, but it's pretty close.
The Ultra 2 adds more exclusive features as well, including a larger battery that easily lasts 24 hours (and can get up to 60 hours of life in low power mode), a programmable Action Button with a variety of workout and adventuring functions (it can also simply activate the flashlight), dual-frequency GPS that can overcome interference from mountains and skyscrapers, and dual integrated speakers that are much louder for taking phone calls, playing music, or interacting with Siri. The price of the Ultra also includes the cellular option that would cost you $100 extra in the Series 9. This allows the watch to make phone calls and have an internet connection even when your iPhone isn't nearby (you'll have to add it with your cellular carrier for about $10/month).
Beyond that, the Ultra has all the health and safety features you can read about in the Apple Watch Series 9 below, but the Ultra offers one key addition: an emergency siren (activated by holding down the Action Button), which belts out an 86-decibel sound pattern that can be heard up to 600 feet (180 meters) away. This can help if you get lost or take a fall on a hike, to ward off wild animals, or to scare off attackers.
At $799, the Ultra is twice the price of the base model Series 9. If you plan to keep your smartwatch for 3-5 years, if you use your current Apple Watch constantly to interact with apps and look up information, or if you are at all clumsy or in situations where the watch can get banged around, then the Ultra could be a great choice.
Deal alert: The Apple Watch Ultra 2 is $60 off at Amazon and Best Buy for Black Friday.
View now at Amazon Apple Watch Series 9 Best Apple Watch for most people Jason Hiner/ZDNET Pros & Cons Brighter screen Full array of health sensors Hands-free double-tap gesture More accurate Siri commands Cellular connectivity costs extra Not as durable as the Ultra 2 More Details Apple Watch Series 9 tech specs: Display size: 41 or 45mm | Battery life: Up to 36 hours | Storage capacity: 64GB | Features: New features include a 2x brighter display, double-tap gesture, new pink color, robust S9 processor, all the best health sensors Apple has to offer The Apple Watch Series 9 can track activity, steps, heart rate, respiratory rate, blood oxygen (lung function), wrist temperature, sleep, and environmental sound levels (to protect your hearing). And it uses algorithms and machine learning (a.k.a. AI) to spot dangerous patterns and alert you to seek medical attention. There are now many stories of people who've had life-saving experiences with health alerts from an Apple Watch.
There are two big upgrades in the Apple Watch Series 9. The first is a 2000 nit display that is double the brightness of last year's S8 and matches the brightness of last year's original Apple Watch Ultra (which gets an upgrade to 3000 nits in the Ultra 2).
The second is the new S9 SiP processor, which has a 30% faster GPU and processes machine learning twice as fast. This makes everything quicker, makes the animations smoother, and enables features like the new double-tap gesture and faster and more accurate Siri commands.
Also: Apple Watch Series 9 vs. Apple Watch Series 8: Should you upgrade? If you want the latest health sensors and safety features, great battery life (especially if you want to do sleep tracking), and you don't need the extreme features in the Ultra 2, then you can save a lot of money by going with the aluminum model of the Apple Watch Series 9 starting at $399.
However, if you decide you want the tougher stainless steel finish (starting at $699) then I'd say skip that and go straight to the Ultra, because for $100 more you get a lot of extra features. The one exception to that might be if you have a smaller wrist.
Deal alert: Save $50 at Amazon and Walmart on the Apple Watch Series 9.
View now at Best Buy View now at Amazon more buying choices Apple Watch SE (2nd generation) Best Apple Watch for kids and first-time buyers Jason Hiner/ZDNET Pros & Cons Family Setup for kids and older adults Health and location tracking Fall and crash detection Very affordable Not as durable as other Apple Watch models Cellular connection requires monthly fee More Details Apple Watch SE tech specs: Display size: 40 or 44mm | Battery life : Up to 18 hours | Storage capacity: 32GB | Features: Most affordable Apple Watch, family setup for kids and older adults, health and location tracking, fall and crash detection Starting at $249, what's amazing about the Apple Watch SE (2nd gen) is how many of the same health and safety features from the Series 8 and the Ultra it actually includes. It's easier to talk about what's not included in the SE. It doesn't track blood oxygen, do ECG heart checks, or check your temperature.
It's not dust resistant and the glass face is not made out of crystal like the Series 8, so it's not as crack resistant. And while the face looks just like the Series 8, the screen is actually about 20% smaller, so it has slightly thicker black bezels around the edge. It also doesn't have an always-on display.
But it includes nearly everything else, and the cellular connectivity is only a $50 add-on for the SE (compared to a $100 add-on for the Series 8). Like the Ultra and the Series 8, adding a cellular connection will also cost you about $10/month with your wireless carrier. But even if you go with the cellular version and opt for the larger 44mm Apple Watch SE over the smaller 40mm version, you'll still only top out at $329 for SE.
Also: Apple Watch SE (2022) vs Apple Watch SE (2020): Should you upgrade? That makes it a great smartwatch to give to someone who doesn't have an iPhone, such as a child or an elderly family member, using Apple's Family Setup.
 With cellular connectivity, they can use the Apple Watch to send and receive phone calls, get text messages, dictate replies to texts, and connect to online info like the weather.
And you can set it up from your iPhone, as long as they are in your Apple family group. If you are connecting an elderly relative who has health issues, the added health sensors in the Series 8 might make it worth the peace of mind to upgrade. Likewise, if you are new to Apple Watch, giving it a try for the first time, and not sure you need all the latest health sensors, then the Apple Watch SE is a great place to get started.
Deal alert: Save $59 when you buy the Apple Watch SE at Amazon.
View now at Amazon Apple Watch Series 7 Best Apple Watch for unique colors Jason Hiner/ZDNET Pros & Cons Comes in unique blue and green colors Good deal if you buy used or refurbished Has most of the latest health features Water, dust, and crack resistant Shorter battery life than Series 8 or 9 Display isn't as bright as Series 9 More Details Apple Watch Series 7 tech specs: Display size: 41mm or 45mm | Battery life: Up to 18 hours | Storage : 32GB | Features: Large display, fast charging, health-focused features, more durable than SE When it first launched in fall 2021, the Apple Watch Series 7 brought key upgrades including a 20% larger screen, fast charging (0 to 80% in 45 minutes with a USB-C cable), a more durable face that's made out of crystal and is 50% thicker than the previous model, and IPX6 dust resistance. Those are features that still aren't available on the Apple Watch SE 2nd Gen.
Review: Apple Watch Series 7 review: Bigger really is better With the SE now holding down the entry-level Apple Watch market, it's best to think about buying the Series 7 in comparison to the SE. If you just want a low-cost entry into the Apple Watch ecosystem and an easy purchase, then you can buy a new SE and quickly get started. A new Apple Watch Series 7 costs nearly the same price as the Series 8, so it's much better to get the Series 8. However, you can find a refurbished Series 7 for $200-$250 on places like BackMarket and RefurbMe.
There are really only a few great reasons to buy the Series 7 at this point. The first is if you want the additional health features (heart and lung tracking) for an Apple Watch you're giving to an elderly relative, or if you want the extra durability for an Apple Watch you're giving to a kid. The other big reason to buy the Series 7 is because it comes in two really nice colors -- green and blue -- that Apple no longer offers for the Series 8. But again, if you're going to get a Series 7, I'd recommend getting a refurbished one.
Deal alert: Save 48% ($358) on the Apple Watch Series 7 at Amazon ahead of Black Friday sales.
View now at Amazon Apple Watch Hermès Best Apple Watch for dressing up Jason Hiner/ZDNET Pros & Cons High-quality, stylish bands Exclusive Hermès watch faces Includes adds an extra Sports Band in the box Expensive for what you get Same features as regular Series 9 More Details Apple Watch Hermès tech specs: Display size: 41mm or 45mm | Battery life: Up to 36 hours | Storage : 64GB | Features: Stylish and quality bands, exclusive Hermès watch faces, and case etchings on display If you're looking to splurge on a designer smartwatch, the Apple Watch Hermès is a chic option for fashionistas. The watch itself is an Apple Watch Series 9, but you'll get exclusive Hermès watch faces and different case etchings.
What you're really paying for, however, are the Hermès bands, like Rouge H Bridon Double Tour that wraps around your wrist twice. There are plenty of stylish bands to choose from, like the Noir/Gold Twill Jump Single Tour band or the Kilim Single Tour in signature orange.
The versions of this watch that Apple sells no longer include options for the classic Hermès leather bands, now that Apple has eliminated leather from the product. However, Hermès sells leather bands for its edition of the Apple Watch on its site.
As you might expect, the price range for this Apple Watch model will cost you a lot more for the designer brand name. This model ranges from $1,249 to $1,349. All models include cellular (activation and monthly plan not included) and Apple's higher-end stainless steel casings that are also offered on the Apple Watch Series 9.
View now at Apple View now at Hermes more buying choices What is the best Apple Watch model? The Apple Watch Ultra 2 is the model with the most cutting edge features, while the Apple Watch Series 9 is the one that has all the latest health features at a mainstream price ($399). There are a few other options as well, so here's a chart that breaks down the features of each model.
Apple Watch model Price Where to buy Display size Battery life Storage capacity Chip Apple Watch Ultra 2 $799 Apple, Amazon, Best Buy 49 mm 72 hours 64GB S9 SiP Apple Watch Series 9 $399 Apple, Amazon, Best Buy 41mm or 45mm 36 hours 64GB S9 SiP Apple Watch SE $249 Apple, Amazon, Best Buy 40 or 44mm 18 hours 32GB S8 SiP Apple Watch Series 7 $275 Apple, BackMarket 41 or 45mm 18 hours 32GB S7 SiP Apple Watch Hermès $1,249 Apple, Hermès 41 or 45mm 36 hours 64GB S9 SiP Which Apple Watch model is right for you? Having trouble deciding between Apple Watch models? Here's a quick summary of the primary reason to buy each one.
Choose this Apple Watch...
If you want...
Apple Watch Ultra 2 All the best smartwatch features Apple has to offer. While the Ultra 2 is especially loaded with fitness and durability features for athletes and adventurers, its larger and brighter display, better battery life, and emergency siren will appeal to lots of others as well.
Apple Watch Series 9 All the latest health and fitness features at an approachable price. It tracks heart health, breathing, temperature, sleep, and, of course, activity and fitness. The Apple Watch keeps getting smarter and this is the best-selling model.
Apple Watch SE A more budget-friendly Apple Watch. This includes all the basic features at a lower price and is a great pick for first-time Apple Watch buyers or to give to a kid or an elderly family member, since you can configure it using Family Setup even if they don't have an iPhone.
Apple Watch Series 7 An Apple Watch in unique blue or green colors. The Apple Watch Series 7 is for sale in many places and you can get a refurbished model for $200-$275. The best reason to get it is the fact that it comes in two unique colors you can't get in the Series 9.
Apple Watch Hermès An Apple Watch for dressing up as well as working out. For those who love the French luxury brand, this special edition of the Apple Watch features premium bands and exclusive watch faces for those for those who view their timepiece as a fashion accessory.
How did I choose these Apple Watch models? I have used an Apple Watch every day since the product first launched in April 2015 and have upgraded nearly every year. I have helped family, friends, and neighbors decide if the Apple Watch was right for them, bought Apple Watch models for my kids and aging relatives, and recommended the best times to buy and places to purchase from. I am thoroughly familiar with the current lineup of Apple Watches and made the recommendations in this list based on the factors below: Display size: Apple Watch displays now come in essentially three different sizes (40/41, 44/45, and 49). Depending on the size of your wrist and how much you want to interact with the watch for quick actions, the display size will be a big factor in determining which model makes the most sense.
Features: Apple methodically adds more and more new features to the Apple Watch each year, so we compared safety features, health sensors, band options, battery life, and other useful options.
Pricing: Each Apple Watch has a number of different variations, so pricing can vary widely -- especially based on which band you pick. We included budget-worthy options below $250, as well as the more premium options that are over $1,000.
Do you need an iPhone to use an Apple Watch? Yes, you need an iPhone to set up an Apple Watch. However, with all of the models on this list, you can use the Family Setup option to have one iPhone set up watches for multiple members in your Apple family group -- even if they don't have an iPhone. You cannot use an iPad, a Mac, or a non-Apple smartphone to set up an Apple Watch.
What does the Apple Watch do? Fundamentally, all Apple Watches can track your steps and fitness data, display notifications from your iPhone, show basic information like weather, start timers, send and receive text messages, answer phone calls, and download useful apps. The latest versions have additional features and functionality, including sleep tracking, advanced health monitoring, car crash detection, and international emergency calling.
Are older versions of the Apple Watch still worth buying? Yes, many older Apple Watch are available to buy refurbished at places like BackMarket and are still some of the best smartwatches on the market. Just keep in mind that Apple releases a new Apple Watch each year, so a refurbished model that is already dated could end up being four or five generations behind the latest innovations during the time you own it.
What are some features to look for in the best Apple Watch models? The most important features to look for in the best Apple Watch models include advanced health sensors (ECG, blood oxygen, wrist temperature, etc.), connectivity options (is cellular included or extra, if you want the watch to work when an iPhone isn't nearby), battery life, and durability (water resistance, dust resistance, crystal face to resist cracking).
Which is the best Apple Watch for fitness tracking? The best Apple Watch for fitness tracking is the Apple Watch Series 9 or the Apple Watch Ultra 2, which both come equipped with the widest variety of health sensors, including ECG, sleep tracking, heart and breathing functions, wrist temperature, and more.
What is the difference between the Apple Watch Series 9, Series 8, and Series 7? The Apple Watch Series 9 brings a 2000-nit display (twice as bright as Series 8), a new hands-free double-tap gesture, and is powered by the new S9 SiP, which makes any parts of the watch run faster and smoother. The Apple Watch Series 8 introduced a more scratch-resistant crystal face, a temperature sensor, next-gen motion tracking, crash detection, and emergency SOS (all of which are also include in the Series 9). These are all features that the Series 7 doesn't include, but it features two unique colors -- blue and green -- no longer available on either the Series 9 or the Series 8.
Is the Apple Watch Ultra 2 worth the extra cost for outdoor enthusiasts? If you're someone who spends time hiking, doing triathlons, and involved in outdoor activities in extreme temperatures, rugged conditions, and lots of dust and water, the Apple Watch Ultra 2 may be worth the extra cost. Its design makes it more durable and water-resistant (up to 100m) than the other Apple Watch models and it includes an Action Button for fine-tuning workouts and hikes.
Is the Apple Watch SE a good option for budget-conscious buyers? Yes, the Apple Watch SE (2nd generation) is a solid option for buyers who don't want to spend over $300 and still want access to the basic health tracking and standard features of the Apple Watch. It's great for first-time Apple Watch owners and as a watch to give to kids or elderly relatives -- especially using the Family Setup option if they don't have an iPhone.
Does Apple Watch work with Android? You cannot use an Android phone to setup and pair with an Apple Watch and there are no good workarounds for that. However, if you have an Android phone then there are several smartwatches you can choose from that offer most of the same features as an Apple Watch. The ones below are smartwatches that ZDNET has reviewed and have rated well in our testing.
More: The best Android smart watches of 2023 What are the best Apple Watch alternatives? If you're on the fence about getting an Apple Watch, or want to stay in the Android ecosystem, there are some great options for you to consider. Our picks for best Apple Watch alternatives are based on ZDNET's extensive testing.
Best Samsung alternative Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 Classic Samsung's latest smartwatch offers up to 40 hours of battery life, the One UI 5 software update which offers a deeper focus on sleep tracking, fitness, and safety features, and the biggest Samsung Watch Display (1.5 Super AMOLED) along with the Samsung-unique rotating bezel, giving you more precise control over the watch.
View at Samsung Best Google alternative Google Pixel Watch The Google Pixel watch combines Fitbit and Google technology, so you get the best of both worlds. The ECG app can help measure your heart rhythm while working out, sleeping, or sitting behind your desk at work. The smartwatch can track 40 different types of exercise, along with Active Zone Minutes, calories burnt, and steps.
View at Amazon Best Garmin alternative Garmin Epix Pro The Garmin Epix Pro has a brilliant AMOLED touchscreen display, a powerful LED flashlight, high-end sapphire glass and titanium materials, and support for just about every activity you will take on. The Epix Pro also includes the whole suite of Garmin's extensive health monitoring features, such as heart rate monitoring, stress tracking, pulse ox reading, women's health features, and more.
View at Amazon ZDNET Recommends The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you) The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick) The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money) Editorial standards Show Comments Community Guidelines Related The 20 best early Black Friday Apple watch deals available now The 16 best early Black Friday smartwatch deals The 20 best early Black Friday 2023 Fitbit and fitness tracker deals ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
