X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Tech Why you can trust ZDNET : ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Our process 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
Home Tech Smartphones The 34 best early Black Friday 2023 Samsung deals Written by June Wan, Reviews Editor Nov. 17, 2023 at 10:29 a.m. PT View now View at Best Buy View now View at Amazon View now View at Best Buy View now View at Samsung View now View at Amazon You don't have to be deeply invested in technology to know just how popular the Samsung brand is. Over the past decades, the Korean tech giant has dominated several consumer markets, including mobile, kitchen appliances, home entertainment, and more. So, whenever the holiday shopping season comes around, one thing is for certain: You're guaranteed to find deals on various Samsung products, including ones that you didn't know existed.
Also: The best early Black Friday deals While Black Friday doesn't officially start until next week, the best deals on the internet have already surfaced, including offers from Amazon. To help you navigate the buzz, I've rounded up the best early deals that you can take advantage of right now. Stay tuned for the latest updates.
Best early Black Friday 2023 Samsung deals Samsung 50-inch Class TU690T Series 4K TV : $277 (save $102 at Best Buy) Samsung 65-inch Class S95C Series OLED 4K TV : $2,400 (save $700 at Best Buy) Samsung 75-inch The Frame Series 4K TV for $1,997 (save $1,000 at PC Richard & Son) Samsung 55-inch The Frame 4K TV : $978 (save $520 at Amazon) Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra : $899 (save $300 at Best Buy) Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 : $1,299 (save $500 at Amazon) Samsung Galaxy Buds 2 Pro : $159 (save $70 at Amazon) Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 (40mm) : $229 (save $70 at Amazon) Samsung Odyssey Neo G7 43-inch Monitor : $499 (save $500 at Best Buy) Samsung Galaxy Tab S6 Lite for $199 (save $150 at Amazon) Best early Black Friday 2023 Samsung TV deals June Wan/ZDNET Samsung 50-inch Class TU690T Series 4K TV : $277 (save $102 at Best Buy) Samsung 65-inch Class S95C Series OLED 4K TV : $2,399 (save $700 at Best Buy) Samsung 65-inch Class QN900C 8K TV : $3,299 (save $1,700 at Samsung) Samsung 65-inch Class QN800C 8K TV : $2,599 (save $900 at Samsung) Samsung 75-inch The Frame Series 4K TV for $1,997 (save $1,000 at PC Richard & Son) Samsung 55-inch The Frame 4K TV : $978 (save $520 at Amazon) Samsung 65-inch Class QN90C 4K TV : $1,699 (save $1,100 at Samsung) Best early Black Friday 2023 Samsung phone deals June Wan/ZDNET Samsung Galaxy S23 : $699 (save $200 at Best Buy) Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus : $799 (save $200 at Best Buy) Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra : $899 (save $300 at Amazon) Samsung Galaxy S23 FE : $399 (save $200 at Amazon) Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 : $799 (save $200 at Amazon) Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 : $1,299 (save $500 at Amazon) Samsung Galaxy A54 5G : $325 (save $125 at Best Buy) Best early Black Friday 2023 Samsung appliances deals Samsung/ZDNET Samsung 23 cu. ft. Counter Depth 4-Door Refrigerator : $1,799 (save $1,500 at Samsung) Samsung 5.3 cu. ft. Ultra Capacity Front Load Washer : $898 (save $500 at Samsung) Samsung Smart Linear Dishwasher : $749 (save $550 at Samsung) Samsung Jet 60 Pet Cordless Stick Vacuum : $199 (save $130 at Best Buy) Samsung Bespoke Jet Cordless Stick Vacuum : $499 (save $200 at Best Buy) Samsung 65-inch Class S95C OLED 4K TV Save $700 June Wan/ZDNET Current price: $2,400 Original price: $3,100 I tested the Samsung S95C TV just a few months ago and remarked about how far the company's OLED technology had come. Watching Avatar: The Way of Water on the TV was quite the spectacle, with the darker scenes, in particular, being rich in detail and contrast, and the brighter scenes being just as visually stimulating.
The 65-inch model, which is listed in this deal, was just the right size for my living room, but Samsung does offer the S95C in a smaller 55-inch frame if preferred.
Also: The best Samsung TVs you can buy View now at Best Buy Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 Save $500 June Wan/ZDNET Current price: $1,299 Original price: $1,799 Samsung's Galaxy Z Fold 5 is not the latest foldable phone on the market, but it is one of the best. The device comes with a 6.2-inch external display that's ideal for quick tasks and messaging and a larger 7.6-inch inner display that's great for multimedia consumption. In a way, you're paying for a smartphone and a tablet.
Compared to the competition, the Galaxy Z Fold 5 brings a level of maturity and refinement that's a step above, with premium materials, improved durability, and software that's well-optimized for multitasking. Right now, you can pick up Samsung's phone-to-tablet foldable at a $500 discount, its lowest price ever.
View now at Amazon Samsung 32-inch M80C Smart Monitor Save $300 June Wan/ZDNET Current price: $400 Original price: $700 Samsung's claim to fame may well be its TVs, but the M80C is a little different than its usual offerings. The M80C is a smart monitor, meaning you can tether it to a desktop or laptop in an office space, and when you're done for the day, kick back and switch it to TV mode.
Review: Samsung M8 Smart Monitor: A sub-$700 Apple Studio Display alternative? The M80C comes in a decent-sized 32-inch frame with built-in speakers and Tizen OS, Samsung's TV software, for quick access to streaming services like Netflix, Disney+, Max, and more. And right now, you can pick one up at a $300 discount.
View now at Best Buy Samsung 4.5 cu. ft. Front Load Washer Save $370 June Wan/ZDNET Current price: $629 Original price: $999 If you're looking for a new washer, Samsung has a 4.5 cu. ft. unit that's great for high-volume cleaning and has a slew of smart features. For example, the washer comes with Vibration Reduction Technology+ which, to no surprise, reduces the banging noise that's typically associated with more powerful washers. There's also built-in self-cleaning to eliminate any bacteria that's leftover from worn clothes.
Samsung is selling the washer at a $370 discount during its pre-Black Friday sale, and the appliance is eligible for next-day delivery in select zip codes.
Also: The best washers you can buy View now at Samsung Samsung T9 Portable SSD 2TB Save $90 Samsung/ZDNET Current price: $150 Original price: $240 My best tech investment this year has been an external SSD, which I use to store all the photos and videos I capture over time. This one from Samsung is one of the company's latest, the T9 Portable SSD, and not only does it field upwards of a 4TB capacity, but it boosts read and write speeds of up to 2,000MB per second.
The T9 Portable SSD is easy to pocket, great for content creators and users who just want a more secure and physical storage space, and can be had right now for $90 less than retail.
Also: 2TB SSD in your pocket? Samsung's tiny T5 gets speed boost View now at Amazon When is Black Friday 2023? The official date for Black Friday 2023 is November 24, 2023, the day after Thanksgiving.
However, as has been the case the past few years, manufacturers are offering the best holiday discounts weeks, if not days, in advance.
How did we choose these early Black Friday deals? ZDNET only writes about deals we want to buy -- devices and products we desire, need, or would recommend. Our experts looked for deals that were at least 20% off (or are hardly ever on sale), using established price comparison tools and trackers to determine whether the deal is actually on sale and how frequently it drops.
We also looked over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the deals we're recommending. Our recommendations may also be based on our own testing -- in addition to extensive research and comparison shopping. The goal is to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter.
What are the best early Black Friday deals right now? ZDNET's experts have been searching for early Black Friday deals across sites like Amazon, Best Buy, Walmart, Newegg, and more. Here are the top deals by category we've found so far.
Best early Black Friday deals Best early Black Friday deals under $30 Best Black Friday deals under $100 Best early Black Friday phone deals Best early Black Friday laptop deals Best early Black Friday tablet deals Best early Black Friday TV deals Best early Black Friday smartwatch deals Best early Black Friday headphones deals Best early Black Friday monitor deals Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals Best early Black Friday VPN deals Best early Black Friday Amazon deals Best early Black Friday Apple deals Best early Black Friday Samsung deals Best early Black Friday Best Buy deals Best early Black Friday Dell deals Best early Black Friday HP deals Best early Black Friday Verizon deals Best early Black Friday Newegg deals Best early Black Friday Walmart deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals Best early Black Friday Apple Watch deals Best early Black Friday AirPods deals Best early Black Friday iPad deals Best early Black Friday security camera deals Best early Black Friday storage and SSD deals Best early Black Friday Fitbit and fitness tracker deals Best early Black Friday Kindle deals Best early Black Friday Chromebook deals Best early Black Friday streaming deals Top holiday deals Best early Black Friday deals Top Black Friday robot vacuum deals Best Black Friday TV deals Top Black Friday headphones deals Editorial standards Show Comments Community Guidelines Related The 34 best early Black Friday phone deals: iPhone 15, Pixel 8, Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 The best Samsung Galaxy phones you can buy The best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
