X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Tech Why you can trust ZDNET : ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Our process 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
Home Tech Best early Black Friday deals on products ZDNET's tested and recommend Written by June Wan, Reviews Editor Nov. 17, 2023 at 2:53 p.m. PT View now View at Best Buy View now View at OnePlus View now View at Amazon View now View at Amazon View now View at Amazon View now View at Amazon View now View at Amazon View now View at PC Richard & Son View now View at Amazon We're still in the early days of Black Friday, but all it really takes is a glimpse at ZDNET's live blog to know just how many deals are on the table this year. Whether you're shopping for a new TV, pair of headphones, laptop, tablet, or even robot vacuum, we've got you covered.
Also: The best early Black Friday deals But if you're feeling overwhelmed by the sheer volume of deals to be had, or uncertain of what's actually worth buying, let this roundup serve as the guiding light of your Black Friday shopping. Throughout the years, ZDNET's tested and reviewed hundreds, if not thousands, of consumer electronics, from smartphones to personal computers to smart home appliances, and many of our highest-rated products just so happen to be on sale during this time of the year.
The list below not only contains gadgets and gizmos that are heavily discounted but are ultimately worth investing in, as our writers and editors can attest to.
Early Black Friday 2023 deals on ZDNET's best-rated products Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra Save $300 June Wan/ZDNET Current price: $899 Original price: $1,199 I tested Samsung's flagship smartphone back in February, and to this day, it's still the most complete handset that money can buy. From the big and bright AMOLED display to the competent quad-camera setup to the integrated S Pen stylus, there's not much, if anything, that's missing from the Ultra model.
Read the review: Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra View now at Best Buy OnePlus Open Save $200 June Wan/ZDNET Current price: $1,499 Original price: $1,699 If you told me at the start of the year that OnePlus, not Google or Samsung, would be making the best foldable phone that you can buy, I'd be in disbelief. But nearly 12 months later, I'm here to report that the OnePlus Open is, in fact, the best in its class, with a form factor, software suite, and price that shadows its competition. Right now, a trade-in of any phone in any condition sees $200 discounted from the OnePlus Open, making it a fantastic deal for a foldable.
Read the review: OnePlus Open View now at OnePlus Google Pixel 7a Save $125 June Wan/ZDNET Current price: $374 Original price: $499 Google's Pixel A series offers core necessities at a reasonable price, and the latest Pixel 7a model is the perfect example. Even at its standard price of $499, you're getting a flagship-level camera system, the same software features found on Google's more expensive Pixels, and a fantastic 90Hz display. Now, for $125 less, one of the best-value phones on the market just got better.
Read the review: Google Pixel 7a View now at Amazon Bose QuietComfort 45 headphones Save $130 Jada Jones/ZDNET Current price: $199 Original price: $329 Bose has consistently been at the top of ZDNET's best headphones rankings, and for good reason. Its flagship QuietComfort 45 model features immersive noise cancellation, a sleek and timeless design, and some of the best audio output that ZDNET's headphones expert, Jada Jones, has heard. Right now, the same pair can be had at a $130 discount, making it a great pick-up for audiophiles and casual listeners alike.
Read the review: Bose QuietComfort 45 View now at Amazon Apple AirPods Pro (2nd Gen, USB-C) Save $20 Jason Hiner/ZDNET Current price: $229 Original price: $249 The iPhone's recent shift to USB-C from Lightning meant that Apple's most popular accessory would have to follow suit. Fortunately, the newest AirPods feature more than just a different look, they also support Conversation Awareness and a more responsive Adaptive Audio experience, meaning they'll adjust your volume levels as you go from listening to music to talking to someone nearby.
Read the review: Apple AirPods Pro (2nd Gen) View now at Amazon Apple MacBook Air (15-inch, M2) Save $250 June Wan/ZDNET Current price: $1,049 Original price: $1,299 The 15-inch MacBook Air offers the best of both worlds, combining the big-screen experience of Apple's MacBook Pro line with the portability of the Air. That's a recipe for success, especially if you're someone who's always on their feet. We're seeing one of the best discounts on the latest MacBook model during Black Friday, bringing it down to just $1,049.
Read the review: Apple MacBook Air (15-inch, M2) View now at Amazon Amazon Fire HD 8 Kids Save $75 Maria Diaz/ZDNET Current price: $75 Original price: $150 A 50% discount makes it even harder to argue against buying Amazon's Fire HD 8 Kids tablet. ZDNET's Maria Diaz decided to buy one over the regular iPad earlier this year and had no regrets. The Fire HD 8 Kids is built to withstand the rigors of children and supports customizable parental controls so you're always in the know of what your child can and can't do.
Read the review: Amazon Fire HD 8 Kids View now at Amazon Hisense 65-inch U6K Mini-LED TV Save $350 Artie Beaty/ZDNET Current price: $449 Original price: $800 Hisense may not be the first name that comes to mind when you think TVs, but its new U6K model is certainly worth considering. ZDNET's Artie Beaty reviewed the 65-inch model and praised it for offering plenty of entertainment features at a more accessible price than Samsung, Sony, and LG.
Read the review: Hisense 65-inch U6K TV View now at PC Richard & Son Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni Save $455 Maria Diaz/ZDNET Current price: $1,044 Original price: $1,499 You'll find plenty of robot vacuum deals during the holiday shopping season, but the discounted Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni may be the one to buy. The model was just released and features both vacuuming and mopping capabilities, a self-cleaning station, and some of the strongest suction power we've tested at 8,000Pa.
Read the review: Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni View now at Amazon Top holiday deals Best early Black Friday deals Top Black Friday robot vacuum deals Best Black Friday TV deals Top Black Friday headphones deals Editorial standards Show Comments Community Guidelines Related The 17 best early Black Friday deals under $30 The best early Black Friday 2023 deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and more The 128 best Amazon Black Friday deals 2023 live right now ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
