X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Tech Why you can trust ZDNET : ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Our process 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
Home Tech Computing Tablets The 15 best early Black Friday tablet deals available now Written by Allison Murray, Staff Writer Nov. 17, 2023 at 9:17 a.m. PT Nina Raemont View now View at Amazon View now View at Amazon View now View at Best Buy View now View at Amazon View now View at Amazon The holiday shopping season is officially here. If you want to get a head start before the big sales during Black Friday/Cyber Monday next week, there are already deals to be had across retailers on all things tech.
Also: The best early Black Friday deals And, if you're looking to buy or gift a tablet this year, tablets from popular brands like Apple, Samsung, Microsoft, and more are going to be heavily discounted for the Black Friday shopping weekend. However, ZDNET scoured retailers and found the best early tablet deals already available so you can check one more thing off your shopping list.
Best early Black Friday 2023 tablet deals Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 for $799 (save $121) Microsoft Surface Pro 9 for $1,000 (save $540) Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra for $700 (save $400) Apple iPad Pro (6th generation) for $999 (save $100) Samsung Galaxy Tab S6 Lite for $200 (save $150) Apple iPad Air (5th generation) for $500 (save $99) Microsoft Surface Pro 7+ for $600 (save $330) Amazon Fire HD 8 Kids tablet for $75 (save $75) Google Pixel Tablet for $399 (save $100) Amazon Fire HD 10 tablet for $80 (save $60) Apple iPad Pro 12.9-inch (6th-generation) Save $100 Jason Cipriani/ZDNET Current price: $999 Original price: $1,099 Apple's most powerful tablet is $100 off ahead of Black Friday sales. It's so power-packed that you can replace it entirely for your laptop, thanks to download speeds up to 2.4Gbps (twice as fast as the previous model) 15 percent faster performance, and up to 35 percent faster graphics performance.
View now at Amazon Samsung Galaxy Tab S9+ Save $121 Matthew Miller/ZDNET Current price: $999 Original price: $1,120 Samsung's new Galaxy Tab S9+ tablet has similar specs to that of the S9 Ultra, but the Tab S9 Plus costs $200 less. Included with the purchase of this tablet is Samsung's S Pen that provides a realistic paper-on-pen experience.
View now at Amazon Microsoft Surface Pro 9 Save $540 June Wan/ZDNET Current price: $1,000 Original price: $1,540 This tablet was made for business and productivity thanks to features like a 13-inch screen with 2880 x 1920 resolution, 15.5 hours of battery life, and the included Surface Pro Keyboard, which effectively turns your tablet into a working laptop. You can get it at Best Buy now for $540 off its original price.
View now at Best Buy Apple iPad (10th generation) Save $100 June Wan/ZDNET Current price: $349 Original price: $449 Apple's tried-and-true tablet, the base model iPad, is arguably the best value out of all the iPad models, and it's currently $100 off. You get the same features as the more expensive Pro and Air models in a lightweight form factor with a 10.9-inch Liquid Retina display with True Tone and thinner bezels than the previous generation.
View now at Amazon Amazon Kindle Scribe Save $100 Matthew Miller/ZDNET Current price: $240 Original price: $340 The Kindle Scribe is perhaps the perfect example of part e-reader, part tablet, and it's 29% off. It has the same functions you've come to know and love in a Kindle, like a 300 ppi glare-free screen, weeks of battery life, and adjustable warm light. It's also compatible with Amazon's Basic or Premium Pen, so you can take handwritten notes or underline important quotations within the book you're reading.
View now at Amazon When is Black Friday 2023? Black Friday always occurs the day after Thanksgiving in the U.S. This year, it falls on Friday, Nov. 24. However, you can expect deals the week leading up to the day, as well as all weekend long.
How did we choose these Black Friday deals? ZDNET only writes about deals we want to buy -- devices and products we desire, need, or would recommend. Our experts looked for deals that were at least 20% off (or are hardly ever on sale), using established price comparison tools and trackers to determine whether the deal is actually on sale and how frequently it drops.
We also looked over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the deals we're recommending. Our recommendations may also be based on our own testing -- in addition to extensive research and comparison shopping. The goal is to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter.
What is the best tablet? ZDNET's top pick for the best tablet is the 10th-generation iPad since its lightweight design that's perfect for working or streaming movies on the go. Its fairly affordable price tag also makes it a great choice for students who need a mobile work computer.
Where can I find the best early Black Friday deals? ZDNET's experts have been searching for early Black Friday deals across sites like Amazon, Best Buy, Walmart, Newegg, and more. Here are the top deals by category we've found so far.
Best early Black Friday deals Best early Black Friday deals under $30 Best Black Friday deals under $100 Best early Black Friday phone deals Best early Black Friday laptop deals Best early Black Friday tablet deals Best early Black Friday TV deals Best early Black Friday smartwatch deals Best early Black Friday headphones deals Best early Black Friday monitor deals Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals Best early Black Friday VPN deals Best early Black Friday Amazon deals Best early Black Friday Apple deals Best early Black Friday Samsung deals Best early Black Friday Best Buy deals Best early Black Friday Dell deals Best early Black Friday HP deals Best early Black Friday Verizon deals Best early Black Friday Newegg deals Best early Black Friday Walmart deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals Best early Black Friday Apple Watch deals Best early Black Friday AirPods deals Best early Black Friday iPad deals Best early Black Friday security camera deals Best early Black Friday storage and SSD deals Best early Black Friday Fitbit and fitness tracker deals Best early Black Friday Kindle deals Best early Black Friday Chromebook deals Best early Black Friday streaming deals Top holiday deals Best early Black Friday deals Top Black Friday robot vacuum deals Best Black Friday TV deals Top Black Friday headphones deals Editorial standards Show Comments Community Guidelines Related The best early Black Friday iPad deals 2023 The best early Black Friday 2023 deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and more The 17 best early Black Friday deals under $30 ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
