X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Tech Why you can trust ZDNET : ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Our process 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
Home Tech Wearables The best fitness rings to track your health metrics without the bulk Written by Allison Murray, Staff Writer Nov. 17, 2023 at 6:30 a.m. PT Gabriela Pérez Jordán View now View at Ouraring View now View at GO2SLEEP View now View at Movano View now View at Circular If you love to track your steps, keep a careful eye on your health and sleep data, or plan workout regimens with the help of smart tech, you probably have a smartwatch or health wearable. But let's be honest: some smartwatches are far too clunky, and even the most nondescript smartwatch bands can clash with your outfit.
Smart rings, on the other hand, are a subtler, lightweight, and newer form of wellness tracking that could be up your alley. Thanks to built-in sensors that measure aspects like heart rate and blood oxygen levels, fitness rings continue to revolutionize the fitness wearable landscape, enabling users to track their health and improve their fitness without needing to open their phone or-- in some cases -- wait solely on doctor results. Plus, instead of presenting a screen interface, fitness rings connect via a smartphone app , making for a more distraction-free approach to health and technology.
Also: The best fitness trackers ZDNET went hands-on with our top pick, the ever-popular Oura Ring Gen 3 Horizon , and we were impressed by its comprehensive health suite, easy wear, nice material, and battery life. (Plus, it's on sale right now ahead of Black Friday.) It's a big year for fitness rings, with two highly anticipated options coming out within the next few months. Find out how other leading brands on the market -- both those currently available and those set to release soon-- compare based on that criteria and more.
The best fitness rings of 2023 Oura Ring Gen 3 Horizon Best fitness ring overall Sherin Shibu/ZDNET Pros & Cons Best sleep tracking on the market Tracks steps and active calories Heart rate monitor sensors to see how your workout was Pricey and a monthly membership is also required Battery life can vary Tarnishes if in contact with abrasive weights More Details Oura Ring Gen 3 Horizon specs: Sizing: 6-13 | Material: Durable titanium and PVD coating | Colors : Silver, black, stealth, gold, rose gold | Water resistance: Up to 328 feet | Sensors : Heart rate, blood oxygen, PPG, skin temperature, 3D accelerometer | Connectivity: Bluetooth Low-Energy, Airplane Mode | Battery: Up to seven days The Oura Ring is currently one of the most successful fitness rings on the market, offering four different color options and various sizes to choose from.
ZDNET's Sherin Shibu bought and tested the Heritage Oura ring, and put it through a number of weekly activities, like strength training, cycling class, yoga class, and more. The highlight of the ring is that it doesn't let the user get lost in data. You get a simplified activity, sleep, and readiness score that you can use to improve your overall wellness, along with more detailed charts monitoring heart rate and body temperature if you wish to peruse them.
Review: Is the Oura Ring worth buying in 2023? The ring also has exceptional sleep tracking.
 It provides insightful data that surpasses what you would receive from a Fitbit or the best smart rings. For instance, it displays your HRV balance, temperature changes during sleep (which can be used to predict menstrual cycles), blood oxygen levels, and the duration of each sleep stage.
In addition to its impressive sleep tracking, the Oura Ring also excels in activity tracking. It monitors your steps, calories burned (including active calories), heart rate during exercise, and training volume. When comparing its activity tracking to that of a Garmin Vivomove Sport watch, the Oura Ring was within 200 steps of Garmin's tracked steps.
In 2022, Oura introduced the Horizon model, which removes the flat spot at the top of the ring to make it entirely round like a regular ring. You can opt for the Heritage model, which starts at $299, or the new Horizon model which starts at $349.
View now at Ouraring View now at Best Buy more buying choices Go2sleep Best budget fitness ring Go2sleep/ZDNET Pros & Cons Affordable 'Find the Ring' feature Heart rate, HRV, and blood oxygen sensors No exercise data Some inaccuracies reported More Details Go2sleep specs: Sizing: Three sizing options | Material: Food-grade silicon | Colors : White | Water resistance: Up to three feet for 30 minutes | Sensors : Heart rate, blood oxygen, and HRV | Connectivity: Bluetooth | Battery: Two nights The Go2sleep fitness ring is appropriately named as it specializes in monitoring your sleep. Along with tracking your heart rate, it gathers other data such as your blood oxygen level (SpO2), AHI, heart rate variability (HRV), and perfusion index. The device also features vibration feedback, which makes it easy to receive notifications.
Also: The best Fitbit fitness trackers By using the app, you can share your sleep data with family members to compare sleep patterns. Additionally, you can download your sleep reports as Excel files to share the information with your medical provider.
The advanced technology incorporated into the Go2sleep ring includes an alarm function that wakes you up during your lightest sleep phase in the morning. The device also has an auto-sync feature with the Health app on iOS devices and a ring-finding function that helps locate the device if it is misplaced (or lost in bed while sleeping).
The ring is normally $149, but you can get it for $99 on the company's website.
View now at GO2SLEEP Movano Evie Ring Best fitness ring for women Evie/ZDNET Pros & Cons Medical-grade data Sleep, activity, and menstrual cycle tracking Personalize your goals and activity progress over time Not yet released Made for women only More Details Movano Evie Ring specs: Sizing: 5-11 | Material: N/A | Colors : Silver, rose gold, gold | Water resistance: N/A | Sensors : Heart rate, heart rate variability, SpO₂, skin temperature, and active metabolic calorie burn | Connectivity: N/A | Battery: N/A Movano's upcoming Evie Ring made its debut at CES 2023 , and it is set to become the first wearable fitness tracker to be FDA-certified as a medical device, possibly even as a licensed pulse oximeter. It is also the first fitness device designed specifically for women's health.
Also: The best fitness apps The Evie Ring will offer "actionable insights" that can help women understand the reasons behind their physical and emotional states. Movano claims that the ring can even "mood track." Through its skin temperature sensors, the ring can predict menstrual cycles and ovulation, providing an additional layer of insight into women's health.
In addition to its unique features, the Evie Ring also offers a standard activity profile, displaying total steps taken, continuous movement stats, and calorie output.
Although the ring is not yet available for purchase, you can sign up to receive preorder updates when it becomes available later in November.
View now at Movano Circular Ring Best fitness ring with notifications Circular Ring/ZDNET Pros & Cons Provides an energy score with automatic workout-tracking Vibrates during guided meditations Set personalized timers with vibrating alerts Won't ship until November in the U.S.
More Details Circular Ring specs: Sizing: 6-13 | Material: High-grade alloy of stainless steel and carbon fiber with coating | Colors : Silver, black, rose gold, gold | Water resistance: Only suitable for light water. Cannot shower or wash hands with ring on. | Sensors : Heart rate, heart rate variability, SpO₂, skin temperature, and active metabolic calorie burn | Connectivity: Bluetooth Smart Low Energy, Airplane Mode | Battery: Up to 4 days While most fitness rings are ambient technology that you forget you're wearing, this ring by Circular incorporates vibration notifications. The ring vibrates during guided meditations, as an alarm clock to wake you up in the morning, and you can set personalized timers throughout the day for the ring to vibrate.
Also: The best smart rings The device tracks precise heart rate, breathing rate, blood oxygen levels, temperature, and motion during sleep with emphasis on quality, duration, and circadian rhythm. You'll even get notifications about irregular heart rates and blood oxygen levels.
For fitness, you'll get an energy score that tells you how much energy you've exerted throughout the day, and the ring automatically tracks your workouts.
You can order your ring now for $284.
View now at Circular What is the best fitness ring? The Oura Ring Gen 3 Horizon is our overall pick for the best fitness ring when you want a stylish but reliable fitness ring. The companion app helps you keep an eye on your fitness, and it is especially notable for its sleep-tracking accuracy. Here is a look at the best fitness rings and how they compare in material, water resistance, price, and more.
Name Price Where to Buy Material Colors Water Resistance Sensors Connectivity Battery Sizing Oura Ring Gen 3 Horizon $349 Ouraring.com Durable titanium and PVD coating Silver, black, stealth, gold, rose gold Up to 328 feet for 30 minutes Heart rate, blood oxygen, PPG, skin temperature, 3D accelerometer Bluetooth Low-Energy, Airplane Up to seven days 6-13 Go2sleep $99 Shop.sleepon.us Food-grade silicon White Up to three feet for 30 minutes Heart rate, blood oxygen, HRV Bluetooth Two nights Three sizing options Movano Evie Ring N/A Eviering.com N/A Silver, rose gold, gold N/A Heart rate, heart rate variability, SpO₂, skin temperature, and active metabolic calorie burn N/A N/A 5-11 Circular Ring $284 Circular.xyz/circular-product-ring High-grade alloy of stainless steel and carbon fiber with coating Silver, black, rose gold, gold Only suitable for light water Heart rate, heart rate variability, SpO₂, skin temperature, and active metabolic calorie burn Bluetooth Smart Low Energy Up to four days 6-13 Our goal was to provide a wide variety of options based on pricing and purposes. That way if you're an avid swimmer or need a fitness ring with vibrating alerts, we have you covered.
Which is the right fitness ring for you? After a while, all the fitness rings can begin to blur together during your search. That is why we offer our expert recommendations on how to find the best fitness ring for your personal needs.
Choose this fitness ring...
If you want...
Oura Ring Gen 3 Horizon A stylish but reliable fitness ring. Its exceptional sleep tracking features provide insightful data such as HRV balance, temperature changes, and blood oxygen levels during sleep, which are superior to other fitness rings. Additionally, the Oura Ring tracks steps and active calories, and it is equipped with heart rate sensors to monitor workout progress.
Go2Sleep An affordable fitness ring to monitor your sleep. With vibration feedback and heart rate, blood oxygen, and HRV sensors, the Go2Sleep monitors your sleep quality and provides useful data for you to analyze that you can even access and download as Excel files.
Monavo Evie Ring A fitness ring built for women set to release later this year. It uses skin sensors to track menstrual cycles and ovulation, gives insight on emotional states, and provides the standard activity profile that tracks total steps, movement, and calorie output.
Circular Ring Vibrations and reminders in a fitness ring. The ring vibrates during guided meditations, as an alarm clock to wake you up in the morning, and you can set personalized timers throughout the day for the ring to vibrate. It tracks precise heart rate, breathing rate, blood oxygen levels, temperature, and motion during sleep with emphasis on quality, duration, and circadian rhythm.
How did I choose these fitness rings? There are several factors we considered when evaluating the best fitness rings.
Material: The ring's composition matters because it helps determine how heavy the ring will be on your finger. Most rings weigh about four to six grams, depending on your ring size, and are often made of durable, lightweight titanium.
Battery: You want to be sure that you can enjoy your ring properly, so we consider how long the battery will last before it needs another charge.
Features: Many of the best fitness rings include special features, like a sleep tracker, period predictor, and fitness tracker. These extra features can help you improve your health by keeping you informed and identifying your trouble areas. You typically can access these stats via a companion app.
Price: The cost of fitness rings can vary significantly. Our picks for the best fitness rings range in price from $100 to about $400, depending on the model and features you choose.
When shopping for the best fitness rings, consider which features are most important to you and be sure to explore your options so you can find the best fit for your needs.
What are fitness rings, and how do they work? A fitness ring is also known as a smart ring. Similar to a smartwatch, this is an electronic device that you wear around your finger to monitor your health and activity. It uses sensors and special chips to track and store your information. Some models offer water resistance so you can wear them as you swim, while others provide alerts via vibration for alarms, personal reminders, and more.
Is Oura Ring better than an Apple Watch? That really depends on if you're a watch person or a ring person. The Apple Watch lets you see all your stats on the watch itself and has features like texting and streaming music.
On the other hand, the Oura Ring is more of an ambient technology that you forget you're wearing. You have to go into the app to get your stats, and it doesn't have any fancy notifications. However, the Oura Ring will track your sleep more accurately than the Apple Watch, and it's comparable to Apple Watch's activity tracking.
Are fitness rings accurate in tracking activity, sleep, and other health metrics? Fitness rings can provide reasonably accurate data on health metrics like heart rate, steps taken, and sleep patterns. However, the accuracy of each metric can vary depending on the specific device and the quality of the sensors used. It's essential to choose a fitness ring with reliable sensor technology and to keep in mind that no wearable device can provide perfect accuracy in tracking health metrics.
Are there alternative fitness rings worth considering? The fitness ring market is small, but it is growing. There aren't many other options to choose from at the moment, but we'd recommend checking out these picks as well.
Best alternative for UV monitoring circul+ Smart Ring by Prevention The circul+ Smart Ring by Prevention is a good alternative fitness ring due to its compact size, advanced health monitoring capabilities, and unique features like UV monitoring and skin temperature tracking.
View at Walmart Best alternative with health reminders Sharper Image Smart Fitness Ring The Sharper Image Smart Fitness Ring is also worth buying because of its affordable price point, accurate health tracking sensors, and customizable fitness goals and reminders.
View at Sharper Image ZDNET Recommends The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you) The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick) The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money) Editorial standards Show Comments Community Guidelines Related Forget a smartwatch: These are the best smart rings you can buy The 20 best early Black Friday 2023 Fitbit and fitness tracker deals The best Apple Watches you can buy (and which are on sale for Black Friday) ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
