X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Tech Why you can trust ZDNET : ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Our process 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
Home Tech Computing Processors AMD vs. Intel: The top gaming CPUs for pros, creators, and casual players Written by Taylor Clemons, Staff Writer April 13, 2023 at 1:14 p.m. PT Elyse Betters Picaro View now View at B&H Photo-Video View now View at Best Buy View now View at Amazon View now View at Walmart View now View at B&H Photo-Video While some DIY gaming PC enthusiasts will insist that a graphics card is the most important component of a build, that would actually be your CPU. The CPU is the brain of your computer, and without it, you're stuck with a very expensive box on your desk.
ZDNET Recommends The best gaming PCs: From HP to MSI, the top rigs compared Prebuilt gaming PCs make it easy to get your hands on top-shelf tech.
Read now Having the right CPU for your gaming PC is important to make everything run efficiently. You need to make sure you aren't mixing Intel and AMD components as well as incompatible generations -- new AMD 7000 series processors use an AM5 socket rather than the AM4 of the previous 5000 series.
To help you find the right gaming CPU for your build, I've put together a list of the very best you can buy. I've also broken down their top features like base and boosted clock speeds as well as core counts to help you find the best fit for your budget and build.
Also: The best gaming GPUs from Nvidia and AMD Intel Core i5-12600K Best gaming CPU overall Intel/ZDNET Pros & Cons Decent cache Fair pricing Excellent overclock ceiling CPU cooler not included Lower speeds Not compatible with all games More Details Intel Core i5-12600K specs: Launched: 2021 | Product collection: 12th-generation | CPU type: Desktop | Total cores: 10 | Total threads: 16 | Performance-core max turbo frequency: 4.90GHz | Efficient-core max turbo frequency: 3.60GHz | Performance-core bass frequency: 3.70GHz | Efficient-core base frequency: 2.80GHz | Cache: 20MB Intel Smart Cache | Total L2 Cache: 9.5MB | Processor base power: 125W | Maximum turbo power: 150W | Maximum memory size: 128GB | Processor graphics: Intel UHD Graphics 770 | Warranty: Intel offers a three-year limited warranty with the Core i5-12600K The 12th-generation Intel Core i5-12600K is a fantastic mid-range option. At around $300, it is an affordable CPU with decent speeds at around 3.70GHz, although it is the slowest option on our list. The 10-core processor combines solid speed with fast processing using six performance cores and four efficiency cores. It's a three-speed system that uses an LGA 1700 socket.
The design incorporates hyper-threading architecture, which means you can count on this system to perform well despite demanding, power-hungry programs. It also features a signature turbo boost with new, revamped Intel UHD graphics. The L3 cache is capable of holding up to 16MB of data for improved performance with exclusive Intel 7 Architecture and incorporated microarchitecture for power efficiency.
View now at B&H Photo-Video View now at Walmart View now at Best Buy more buying choices Intel Core i9-12900K Best high-end gaming CPU Intel/ZDNET Pros & Cons High-performing Most threads Solid cache Requires a lot of power Finicky with Windows 10 Expensive More Details Intel Core i9-18900K specs: Launched: 2021 | Product collection: 12th-generation | CPU type: Desktop | Total cores: 16 | Total threads: 24 | Max turbo frequency: 5.20GHz | Efficient-core max turbo frequency: 3.90GHz | Performance-core bass frequency: 5.10GHz | Performance-core base frequency: 3.90GHz | Efficient-core base frequency: 3.90GHz | Cache: 30MB Intel Smart Cache | Total L2 Cache: 14MB | Processor base power: 125W | Maximum turbo power: 241W | Maximum memory size: 128GB | Processor graphics: Intel UHD Graphics 770 The Intel Core i9-12900K uses an LGA 1700 socket, allowing for PCB installation. The L3 cache includes 30 MG of memory, which is average for the models on our list. This model features a 12th-generation Intel Core i9-12900K desktop processor and a maximum clock speed(1) of up to 5.2GHz. You can experience improved 10 nm performance per watt with the benefit of added power efficiency, thanks to integrated micro-architecture.
The Intel Thread Director is able to sort and coordinate multiple workloads so your system won't get bogged down by internal minutiae. There are a whopping 16 performance cores and eight efficient cores for a total of 24 threads. Plus, the Intel Smart Cache enables 30MB of storage with 600 series(3) motherboard capacity and a 1700 socket. This comes unlocked and with the capacity of overclocking.
View now at Best Buy View now at B&H Photo-Video View now at Walmart more buying choices AMD Ryzen 5 5600G Best budget gaming CPU AMD/ZDNET Pros & Cons Cheapest on our list Great graphics Radeon-compatible Restricted speed Small cache Low connectivity More Details AMD Ryzen 5 5600G specs: Launched: 2020 | Product collection: AMD Ryzen Processors | CPU type: Desktop | CPU socket: AM4 | Total cores: 6 | Total threads: 12 | Maximum boost clock: 4.6GHz | Base clock: 3.7GHz | Default TDP: 65W | Processor CPU Technology: TSMC 7nm FinFET | Total L2 Cache: 3MB | Total L3 Cache: 32 B | Warranty: The AMD Ryzen 5 5600G includes a warranty for parts that lasts three years The AMD Ryzen 5 5600G is our pick for the best cheap CPU for gaming. Because of the lower price, you get slower speeds with 4.4GHz and only a 6-core processor using a 7nm "Zen 3" core. There are 12 threads for 1080P graphics, plus 19MB of cache storage with a CPU Socket AM4. Like the Ryzen 5 5600X, it comes unlocked for clocking with Precious Boost Overdrive to offer faster clock speed and power limits. DDR4-3200 is supported.
The AMD Ryzen Master is a nifty addition that allows you to personalize CPU performance for a fully customized experience, but it doesn't offer the power, speed, and memory of other models. However, it's still a great option when you don't have a lot of money to spend.
View now at Amazon AMD Ryzen 9 5950X Best gaming CPU for performance AMD/ZDNET Pros & Cons Large processor Huge cache Faster speeds Most expensive on our list Stock cooler not included Requires a lot of power More Details AMD Ryzen 9 5950X specs: Launched: 2020 | Product collection: AMD Ryzen Processors | CPU type: Desktop | CPU socket: AM4 | Total cores: 16 | Total threads: 32 | Maximum boost clock: 4.9GHz | Base clock: 3.4GHz | Default TDP: 105W | Processor CPU Technology: TSMC 7nm FinFET | Total L2 Cache: 8MB | Total L3 Cache: 64MB | Warranty: A three-year warranty is included with the purchase of the AMD Ryzen 9 5950X.
The AMD Ryzen 9 5950X is the most expensive on our list with a super-fast 16-core processor. The CPU speed operates with 4.9GHz Max Boost with a Socket AM4. Because of this, it works with PCIe 4.0 on X570 and B550 motherboards. 16 cores support it with 32 processing threads, the most by far of our picks, delivering AMD's elite 100+ FPS performance for today's top games.
The CPU is unlocked for overclocking with 72MB of cache and DDR-3200 support. However, the cooler is not included, so an additional purchase is required -- which is a pricey inconvenience since this CPU is already expensive.
View now at Walmart View now at B&H Photo-Video View now at Amazon more buying choices AMD Ryzen 9 7950X Best gaming CPU for overclocking AMD/ZDNET Pros & Cons 5.7GHz max clock speed Integrated AMD Radeon graphics Ubuntu support Very expensive Requires AM5 motherboard More Details AMD Ryzen 9 7950X specs: Launched: 2022 | Product collection: AMD Ryzen Processors | CPU type: Desktop | CPU socket: AM5 | Total cores: 16 | Total threads: 32 | Maximum boost clock: 5.7GHz | Base clock: 4.5GHz | Default TDP: 170W | Processor CPU Technology: TSMC 7nm FinFET | Total L3 Cache: 64MB | Warranty: 3 years More advanced PC gamers know how important it is to be able to overclock your processor to get the most power. The AMD Ryzen 9 7950X has a base clock speed of 4.5GHz and allows you to boost it up to 5.7GHz, making it one of the fastest processors you can buy outside of high-end workstation units. And with a total of 16 cores and 32 threads, the 7950X gives you blazing-fast speeds and tons of power to launch and run graphically intensive games. Plus, it can handle just about any program you need for video and photo editing or even 3D modeling and animating.
It features integrated AMD Radeon graphics so you can play basic games without a dedicated GPU, but to get the most out of the CPU, it's best to pair it with at least a mid-tier graphics card like an RTX 3050. You can even use this CPU with the Linux Ubuntu operating system if you don't use a traditional Windows-based computer.
View now at B&H Photo-Video View now at Walmart View now at Best Buy more buying choices What is the best gaming CPU? The best gaming CPU you can get right now is the Intel Core i5-12600K. It has a base clock speed of 3.6GHz, but allows you to boost it to 4.9GHz for even faster performance. It also has integrated graphics so you don't need to invest in an expensive, dedicated GPU to play less graphically intensive games.
Gaming CPU Price Speed (base and OC) # of cores Intel Core i5-12600K $242 3.7GHz/4.9GHz 10 Intel Core i9-12900K $421 3.2GHz/5.2GHz 16 AMD Ryzen 5 5600G $140 3.9GHz/4.4GHz 6 AMD Ryzen 9 5950X $499 3.4GHz/4.9GHz 16 AMD Ryzen 9 7950X $599 4.5GHz/5.7GHz 16 Which gaming CPU is right for you? Aside from budget, it's important to choose a CPU that matches your gaming PC build, as AMD and Intel components do not work together. It's also important to make note of base and boosted clock speeds if you intend to unlock and overclock your CPU for enhanced performance.
Choose this gaming CPU...
If you need...
Intel Core i5-12600K A well-rounded and balanced gaming CPU. It features an OC speed of 4.90GHz and integrated Intel UHD 770 Graphics.
Intel Core i9-12900K A high-end CPU for gaming performance. It's pricey, but boasts a 3.90GHz base speed that can be overclocked to 5.20GHz as well as 16 cores and 24 threads for more efficient power usage and smoother multitasking.
AMD Ryzen 5 5600G A budget-friendly gaming CPU. For under $150, you can upgrade your gaming desktop with a modest AMD Ryzen 5 5600G and keep up with triple-A releases (for a few more years at least).
AMD Ryzen 9 5950X A performance-focused CPU. This processor is best for content creators and streamers who need to run applications, games, and programs simultaneously.
AMD Ryzen 9 7950X A CPU capable of high overclock speeds. This is the best choice for DIY PC enthusiasts who value speed over everything else.
How did I choose these CPUs? Shopping for a gaming CPU can be overwhelming if you're unfamiliar with CPU lingo. CPUs have their own language, which can be confusing to the novice user.
When searching for a new CPU for gaming, these are some considerations that can help you find the right CPU model for your needs.
Manufacturer : For better reliability, consider who makes your CPU. Both AMD and Intel are leading manufacturers of CPUs, and they both dominate our list.
Launch date : Technology is quickly and constantly evolving, so a newer model may offer more features. Of course, you will likely pay for this with a higher price tag.
Generation : The type of generation can tell you which programming and processor the CPU uses.
Core : The CPU core count tells you how fast a CPU can operate with cores working to process several different instructions at the same time. Today's CPUs generally use multiple cores for greater performance.
Clock speed : Also known as the clock rate or frequency, the clock speed shows how many cycles per second a CPU can execute. It's measured in gigahertz (GHz).
Overclocking : Overclocking allows you to increase the clock speed of your CPU. For example, the Intel® Performance Maximizer is one of the leading tools for overclocking with greater performance.
Integrated graphics : For better imaging, consider if integrated graphics are available with your CPU. This is especially important if you plan to edit and stream videos.
Another great way to find the best CPU for gaming in 2023 is to look at the PC games you intend to play. The specifications can help you buy the right CPU for your personal needs.
What is a CPU? CPU stands for "central processing unit." You can think of the CPU as the brain of your computer. It provides the basic structure and power the rest of your components need to carry out tasks and run programs.
Should I upgrade my CPU or GPU first? That depends on what issues you're having. If games are running a bit slow or having trouble launching, it's time to upgrade your graphics card since that is what controls loading in-game assets. However, if your entire PC is running slow or having trouble performing basic tasks, it's probably best to get a new CPU.
What's the difference between AMD and Intel CPUs? The difference between AMD and Intel components is similar to the difference between Windows and Mac-based computers. Both use proprietary programming languages and architecture to achieve desired results. And as such, they do NOT work together, which means that you can't buy a cheap Intel motherboard and AMD CPU and expect them to run your PC. Not only would the AMD CPU simply not fit into the motherboard, it also doesn't have the necessary programming to communicate with Intel components.
To make sure your new gaming CPU is going to work with your build, you can check out PC Part Picker , a website designed to help you create a fully compatible build with a budget for new components. You simply select what components you want to buy, and the website checks to make sure everything is compatible. And if there are any problems, it flags the issue so you know exactly what you need to change to make everything work together.
What temperature should my CPU be while gaming? A normal operating range for a CPU, while you're playing games, is 142-164 F (61-73 C). Your CPU may run a bit hotter at times, depending on graphical load and ambient temperature, but that shouldn't cause any damage.
If your CPU is running at a much hotter temperature, you may need to invest in a better cooling fan, some thermal paste to help draw excess heat to the dissipation fins, or even a liquid cooling system. There are all kinds of programs out there to help you monitor your CPU temperature, and I highly recommend using one so you can catch issues before they ruin your gaming rig.
Are there alternative CPUs worth considering? In our search for the best gaming CPUs, I came across several options that may be worth your consideration. These are some of the other CPUs I considered for 2023's best CPUs for gaming: BEST PRICE Intel Core i5-11400K - Runner-up best budget gaming CPU Here's a budget-friendly pick for Intel-based gaming rigs: the Intel Core i5-11400K. For under $150, you can upgrade your rig and still be able to keep up with triple-A titles for a few more years. And just because it's now two generations behind the latest CPUs from Intel, it still offers comparable performance like a 2.6GHz base clock speed that can be boosted to 4.4GHz and integrated Intel UHD 750 graphics.
View at Best Buy BEST PRICE Intel Core i9-13900KS - Runner-up best high-end gaming CPU This is part of the latest desktop CPU line-up from Intel and is the flagship processor for this chipset generation. It uses Intel's adaptive boost technology to automatically adjust power usage for ultra-fast processing while running single programs or multitasking. It has a base speed of 3.2GHz and can be overclocked to a truly impressive 5.4GHz. But all of this power and speed is going to cost you a pretty penny: the Intel Core i9-13900KS sells for about $1,000.
View at Newegg BEST PRICE AMD Ryzen 5 4600G - Great ultra-budget gaming CPU If you don't mind running a CPU with a chipset that is now three generations behind the latest offerings from AMD, you can pick up the AMD Ryzen 5 4600G for just over $100. This means it's an excellent choice for ultra-budget builds or for an emergency replacement if your current processor decides to give up the ghost.
View at Best Buy Once you find the right CPU for you, we can help you build a gaming PC or build a cheap PC that may require a slightly different setup. We can also help you construct a kid-friendly PC gaming build that's fun for the whole family! ZDNET Recommends The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you) The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick) The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money) Editorial standards Show Comments Community Guidelines Related The best early Black Friday Newegg deals The best SSDs you can buy OpenAI CEO sees uphill struggle to GPT-5, potential for new kind of consumer hardware ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
