X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Tech Why you can trust ZDNET : ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Our process 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
Home Tech Computing Laptops The best gaming laptops of 2023: Get your game on Written by Lena Borrelli, Contributing Writer July 7, 2023 at 8:06 a.m. PT Amy Lieu View now View at Walmart View now View at Walmart View now View at Amazon View now View at Amazon View now View at Amazon When it comes to a gamer's success, it's not just about skill. It is also about having the best gaming laptop to help you in your battle for the crown. From a sparkling, detailed display to rich, colorful graphics, there is much to be said for a great gaming laptop. These computers are equipped with powerful processors and advanced hardware to deliver state-of-the-art specs for your gaming adventures.
Also: The best laptops However, gaming laptops are not the cheapest laptops , so it is critical you find the best gaming laptop that is worth the money. ZDNET's in-depth research reveals that the Razer Blade 17 is the best gaming laptop, thanks to its phenomenal performance, upgraded i7 processor, and superior graphics. However, we also included options from Acer, MSI, Asus, and more.
Also: The best computers The best gaming laptops of 2023 Razer Blade 17 Best gaming laptop overall Razer/ZDNET Pros & Cons Phenomenal display Fantastic connectivity Quiet operation Poor battery Limited charging More Details Razer Blade 17 specs: Processor: Intel Core i9 | Screen size: 17.3 inches | Graphics: RTX 3080 Ti | Operating system: Windows 11 The Razer Blade 17 is not just the best gaming laptop you can buy, but it is also the best 17-inch laptop.
The 4K Ultra-HD display measures 17.3 inches and is equipped with a fast 144-Hertz refresh rate. There are upgraded NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3080 Ti graphics, paired with a 12th-Generation Intel 14-Core i9 processor with up to 5.3GHz of Turbo Boost for even faster performance than before. Its speedy GDDR6 memory is 50% faster than the previous generation, giving you improvements you can actually see and feel. The Chroma RGB keyboard is an added bonus, delivering easy visibility even in the dark. It is quiet, too, using its signature Vapor Chamber Cooling system to ensure a softer operation.
Enjoy excellent connectivity with Thunderbolt 4 USB-C, USB-A, and SD card compatibility. Windows 11 also comes pre-installed.
View now at Walmart View now at Amazon more buying choices Acer Nitro 5 Best gaming laptop value Acer/ZDNET Pros & Cons Impressive keyboard Excellent display Affordable Not so portable Loud fans More Details Acer Nitro 5 specs: Processor: Intel Core i5-9300H | Screen size: 15.6 inches | Graphics: NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1650 | Operating system: Windows 10 Home The Acer Nitro 5 is a great pick for the best affordable gaming laptop, offering a straightforward design with a low price tag that users can't help but appreciate.
The Nitro 5 uses a 9th-Generation Intel Core i5-9300H processor, working at a speed of up to 4.1 gigahertz for a reliable performance you can count on. Built in is Intel Wireless Wi-Fi 6 for faster wireless connections while you play, helping to prevent disruptive lagging and crashes. For greater convenience, Amazon Alexa comes built-in and ready to go.
The display is great, too: the 15.6-inch full HD display shows off the laptop's NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1650 graphics and LED backlighting. The backlit keyboard is a lifesaver during those late night gaming sessions while Acer Cool Boost technology keeps things quiet so you don't disturb any sleeping roommates or family.
View now at Walmart View now at Amazon more buying choices Asus ROG Zephyrus Duo Best dual-screen gaming laptop Asus/ZDNET Pros & Cons Convenient dual screen Superb brightness Outstanding speakers Touchpad could use some work Mediocre battery life More Details Asus ROG Zephyrus Duo specs: Processor: AMD Ryzen 7 6800H | Screen size: 16 inches | Graphics: NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3060 | Operating system: Windows 11 Home When money is no object, the Asus ROG Zephyrus Duo is the best gaming laptop you can buy.
The 16-inch dual-screen display is also a touchscreen for greater versatility with a PANTONE-validated Display for more vivid colors. It features leading NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3060 graphics with an anti-glare coating so you don't miss a detail. It is paired with a 10th-Generation Intel Core i7 processor for extraordinary performance.
There is the additional bonus of a 3D AI noise-canceling microphone, plus built-in Dolby Vision and Dolby Atmos for a completely immersive experience. Meanwhile, Asus' ROG Intelligent Cooling keeps your computer from overheating while providing a quiet operation that won't interfere with your gaming.
View now at Amazon HP Victus 15 Best HP gaming laptop HP/ZDNET Pros & Cons 1080p gaming 144Hz refresh rate Affordable Display could be better Plastic construction More Details HP Victus 15 specs: Processor: Intel Core i5-12500H | Screen size: 15.6 inches | Graphics: NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3050| Operating system: Windows 11 Home The HP Victus 15 is also one of the best laptops under $1,000 that you can buy.
This HP gaming laptop comes with a 12th-Generation Intel Core i5-12500H processor with NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3050 graphics and new enhanced Ray Tracing and Tensor Cores for a superior performance over previous models. Enjoy the 1080p Full HD display measuring 15.6 inches for a just-right size that many users appreciate.
You also have extra-wide viewing with 178-degree viewing angles so you and your friends can still see clearly from any angle. NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3050 graphics shine on this model and are further complemented by a backlit keyboard that always ensures visibility is a top priority. The battery lasts up to eight hours, but it takes just 30 minutes to receive a 50% charge when you use HP Fast Charge, getting you back into the game that much faster.
View now at Amazon MSI GT77 Titan Best 17-inch gaming laptop MSI/ZDNET Pros & Cons Incredible power Phenomenal mini-LED display Excellent keyboard Expensive Very heavy More Details MSI GT77 Titan specs: Processor: Intel Core i9-13980HX | Screen size: 17.3 inches | Graphics: RTX 4080 | Operating system: Windows 11 Pro The MSI GT77 Titan comes prepared for serious performance with an impressive build not commonly seen among gaming laptops.
It starts with a super-fast 13th-Generation Intel Core i9-13980HX processor. From there, enjoy a monster 17.3-inch 4K display in Ultra HD that is made up of tiny mini LED lights for an incredibly detailed and vibrant display. It also comes with a special anti-glare coating to ensure top visibility, no matter where you are located.
The NVIDIA GeForce RTX 4080 graphics card will do your games justice and works in hand with the Cherry MX Ultra Low Profile mechanical keyboard. Connectivity is great with options for Thunderbolt 4 and USB-Type C ports. Meanwhile, MSI OverBoost Ultra technology pushes for maximum performance while preventing overheating through its Cooler Boost Titan system.
View now at Amazon What is the best gaming laptop? Users and experts alike are huge fans of the Razer Blade 17, and it is hard not to be. It is moderately priced while dishing up an oversized display, advanced i9 processor, and custom RGB lighting.
To see how it compares, this is a look at the best gaming laptops.
Gaming laptop Cost Processor Screen size Razer Blade 17 $1,900 Intel Core i9 17.3 inches Acer Nitro 5 $700 Intel Core i5-9300H 15.6 inches Asus ROG Zephyrus Duo $2,050 AMD Ryzen 7 6800H 16 inches HP Victus 15 $720 Intel Core i5-12500H 15.6 inches MSI GT77 Titan $3,839 Intel Core i9-13980HX 17.3 inches Which is the best gaming laptop for you? It is not always so easy to determine the best gaming laptop for your needs. The technical specifications can be confusing to track and start to all feel the same from model to model.
That's where I can help. Before you buy the best gaming laptop, consider these suggestions to help you find the right model for your needs.
Choose this gaming laptop...
If you want...
Razer Blade 17 Reliable performance with excellent graphics and a generous display. Its speedy GDDR6 memory is 50% faster than the previous generation.
Acer Nitro 5 The best affordable gaming laptop with an i5 processor. The 15.6-inch full HD display shows off the laptop's NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1650 graphics and LED backlighting.
Asus ROG Zephyrus Duo A dual-screen gaming laptop with a 3D noise-canceling mic and AMD Ryzen processor. There is the additional bonus of a 3D AI noise-canceling microphone.
HP Victus 15 A popular gaming laptop with a clear 1080p display and wide-viewing panels. The battery also lasts up to eight hours.
MSI GT77 Titan A powerhouse gaming laptop with market-leading mini-LED display technology and an upgraded i9 processor.
How did I choose these gaming laptops? Before you buy a gaming laptop, take a moment to reflect on these considerations.
Processor: Also known as the CPU, the processor is like the brain of the computer, helping everything to run properly and quickly. Most gaming laptops incorporate processors like the Intel Core i9 or i7, or you may see an AMD Ryzen 7 or 9 processor in other laptops. When shopping, remember this rule of thumb: the higher the number, the more powerful the processor.
Graphics card: When gaming, it is critical to have the best graphics card possible so your game can feel lifelike with rich colors and vivid images. Most of the best gaming laptops tend to incorporate NVIDIA GeForce or AMD Radeon graphics cards.
Connectivity: Laptops generally do not offer as many ports as their desktop companions, but that does not mean you are out of luck. The best gaming laptops will offer plenty of options, such as USB-C, USB-A, Thunderbolt 4, and HDMI ports.
Price: The cost of a good gaming laptop can vary significantly, with the difference ranging several thousands of dollars. Things like your processor, graphics card, and memory can all impact the price, so keep these things in mind when shopping. To help give you an idea of what to expect, we found that the best gaming laptops range from $650 to more than $3,800 in price.
Which brand is best for gaming laptops? When shopping for gaming laptops, you will find that there are many options available by several different computer manufacturers. Some manufacturers may specialize in budget gaming laptops , while others may focus on high-end laptops. In our search, we found the best gaming laptops came from leading manufacturers such as Razer, Acer, Asus, and HP.
Can you buy a gaming laptop for $1,000? It is easy to spend several thousand dollars on a gaming laptop, but it is possible to find a great gaming laptop under $1,000 when you are on a budget. With the Acer Nitro 5 and HP Victus 15 priced around $650, you can easily purchase a quality laptop under $1,000 without sacrificing key features.
How much RAM do I need in a gaming laptop? RAM refers to random-access memory, or the amount of memory that your computer has. It is critical that your gaming laptop has enough RAM to run your favorite games and save files. Typically, the best gaming laptops have at least eight megabytes of RAM but the general rule of thumb is the more RAM, the better.
Are there alternative gaming laptops worth considering? These aren't the only options available. Check out these other options for best gaming laptop that may be worth a second look.
Best cheap alternative Asus TUF A15 The Asus TUF A15 is also the best budget gaming laptop overall with a robust 15.6-inch display and AMD Ryzen 7 processor.
View at Amazon Best Lenovo alternative Lenovo Legion Pro 7i The Lenovo Legion Pro 7i is one of the best Lenovo laptops you can buy with Lenovo AI Engine+ technology and a 13th-Generation Intel Core Processor.
View at Amazon Best reliable alternative Razer Blade 15 This best gaming laptop is a mainstay on the market, offering an Intel Core i7 processor with an excellent HDR display and aluminum frame to loyalist gamers.
View at Amazon ZDNET Recommends The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you) The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick) The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money) Editorial standards Show Comments Community Guidelines Related The best laptops: Apple, Dell, Microsoft, and more compared The 60 best early Black Friday laptop deals: Amazon, Best Buy, Walmart, and more This Acer laptop surprised me with one of the best OLED screen and webcam pairings I've tested in a while ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
