X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Tech Why you can trust ZDNET : ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Our process 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
Home Tech Wearables Headphones The best headphones you can buy Written by Allison Murray, Staff Writer Christina Darby, Associate Editor Oct. 27, 2023 at 7:16 a.m. PT Nina Raemont View now View at Best Buy View now View at Target View now View at Amazon View now View at Amazon View now View at Best Buy View now View at Walmart With the crisp sound and immersive noise cancellation of the best pair of headphones, you might feel motivated enough to finally go on that run you've been putting off, finish up that music video you've been editing, or get to the next level of your favorite video game.
Also: The best wireless headphones And in recent years, headphones have evolved from a listening tool into a street style and work-wear statement piece. That's not all: they are actually better for long-term hearing than their popular, pocket-sized alternative: the earbud.
With new technology rollouts, such as active noise cancellation (ANC) and voice integration with Google Assistant, Alexa, and Siri, headphones keep getting better and smarter with ever-more options to choose from. But before you go and spend your hard-earned cash on just any pair, make sure that the over-ear style can suit your lifestyle and needs.
Also: The best cheap headphones To help make that process easier, ZDNET has rounded up what our experts consider to be the best in class for you and your listening preferences. Our favorite pair of headphones overall are the Sony's WH-1000XM5 headphones for their market-leading active noise cancellation, advanced voice chat quality, and quick-charging capabilities.
The best headphones of 2023 Sony WH-1000XM5 headphones Best headphones overall Matthew Miller/ZDNET Pros & Cons Market-leading ANC Advanced voice chat quality makes for quality video conferencing A 3-minute quick charge lasts 3 hours Divisive aesthetics Larger carrying case than previous generations Expensive More Details Sony WH-1000XM5 tech specs: Form factor: Over-ear, closed-back | Connectivity : Bluetooth 5.2 | Battery life : 30 hours (3 hours on a 3-minute charge) | Frequency response : 4Hz-40,000Hz Sony's WH-1000XM5 series headphones have been the go-to for active noise cancellation (ANC) technology since their popularity in the 1980s. The WH-1000XM5 headphones have raised Sony's bar even higher, offering the best ANC technology yet, with 30 hours of battery life and a quick charging time of 3 minutes for 3 hours of activity. These headphones provide the perfect sound escape. As ZDNET writer Matthew Miller pointed out in his full review , these headphones have also improved on an often overlooked factor that is becoming increasingly important in a video-conferencing world: "outstanding" microphone quality. "It's great to have a single headset with long battery life taking on all of my headset duties," he writes.
Review: Sony's WH-1000XM5 headphones are basically perfect At a price tag of $400, the advanced tech suite doesn't come cheap. However, for someone who frequently forgets to charge their headphones, the quick charger benefits offer an opportunity cost. The comfortable fit, despite controversial aesthetic reviews, makes blocking out surrounding sounds possible and practical. Bottom line, these comfortable headphones are perfect for working professionals who want to spend their headphone time plugging into projects or calls instead of plugging into a charger.
View now at Best Buy View now at B&H Photo-Video View now at Crutchfield more buying choices Sony WH-CH520 headphones Best budget headphones for casual listening Sony/ZDNET Pros & Cons Lightweight Long-lasting battery life and quick charging Multipoint connection Sony's top-notch quality for less Not noise canceling (no ANC) More Details Sony WH-CH520 specs: Form factor: On-ear | Connectivity: Bluetooth 5.2 | Battery life: 50 hours (1.5 hours on a 3-minute charge) | Frequency response: 20Hz-20kHz Are you tempted by Sony's impressive suite, but can't quite justify the traditionally hefty price tag that follows? Well, you're in luck. Sony announced that the WH-CH520 over-ear headphones offer Sony's star quality in a more compact and affordable size, as reported by ZDNET in February.
 Instead of paying $400 for Sony's multipoint connectivity, Bluetooth 5.2, and sleek aesthetic, you can pay $60 and opt for the WH-CH520 model.
You might be asking yourself if the dramatic drop in price comes with a decrease in quality. Sony headphone enthusiasts and customer reviews prove otherwise. These lightweight headphones seem to offer a sound signature that meets Sony's superb standards, custom EQ adjustments, and impressive battery life, all rolled into a breathable design with cushioned ear pads for all-day wear.
Also: The best headphones for workouts and running I will note, however, that you will be sacrificing Sony's renowned ANC technology. Sony boasts "noise blocking" with this model, but there are no external mics to combat intrusive noise.
 Nevertheless, if you are a casual listener who doesn't mind external sounds leaking in and values the surround sound of the headphones themselves, then these are a great option.
View now at Target View now at B&H Photo-Video View now at Best Buy more buying choices HyperX Cloud Alpha Wireless headphones Best headphones for gaming Taylor Clemons/ZDNET Pros & Cons Spatial audio sound Made from comfortable memory foam Outstanding battery life No Bluetooth connectivity option Can't use with mobile devices or Nintendo Switch Long battery life means a long charging time More Details HyperX Cloud Alpha Wireless specs: Form factor: Over-ear | Connectivity: USB adapter | Battery life: 300 hours | Frequency response: 15Hz-21kHz The last thing you want to think about during a video game is your headphones' battery life. The HyperX Cloud headphones provide an impressive 300 hours of battery life. If you do the math (which we did), you can game and stream for eight hours a day for over a month before needing to recharge. This is even with the DTS Headphone:X audio drivers enabled. Additionally, the microphone is detachable, so you can remove it depending on the type of gaming you're doing. It's also adjustable, so you don't peak your audio or sound muffled while talking to other gamers.
ZDNET's own Taylor Clemons reviewed the HyperXCloud headphones while streaming, gaming, and making work calls and praised the headset for their robust battery, clean audio, and custom EQ settings.
Review: HyperX Cloud Alpha Wireless: Solid, no-nonsense audio for gaming, music, and more This headset has excellent audio quality that provides rich, clean sound even at low volumes. The Ngenuity desktop app enables or disables the spatial audio and DTS Headphone:X settings, allowing you to monitor battery life, adjust volume, and create custom equalizer settings. This ensures that no matter what you're playing, it will sound its absolute best.
View now at Amazon View now at B&H Photo-Video View now at Best Buy more buying choices Beyerdynamic DT 990 Pro X headphones Best wired headphones Michael Gariffo/ZDNET Pros & Cons Solid but lightweight construction Open back style optimizes analytical listening Impressive gaming performance Two included cable lengths Very tight, overly intimate soundstage Headband can feel tight after long wear Mini-XLR connector can annoy your shoulder More Details Beyerdynamic DT 990 Pro X specs: Form factor: Over-ear, open-backed | Connectivity: Wired | Battery life: N/A | Frequency response: 5-40,000Hz and nominal impedance of 48 ohms Even though wireless headphones have dominated the headphone market recently, we can't forget about where headphones started -- wires and all. That's right, wired headphones still exist and are, controversially, still worth it. The Beyerdynamic DT 990 Pro X headphones are living proof. This model is a mid-range headphone option for mixing, streaming, or for audiophiles who want to hear every detail in their music. The detachable mini-XLR cable can be changed at will or exchanged with other connection options.
These headphones are open-backed , allowing air and sound to transmit freely through the earcups' grills, resulting in a more natural, speaker-like sound. If you're producing and mixing, you can definitely hear the difference in their natural frequency response and reliable sound. Plus, the included memory foam provides an ergonomic and comfortable fit, making the over-ear fit feel less constrictive.
Review: Beyerdynamic DT 900 Pro X headphones: Brutally honest sound for under $300 Evident from our 4/5 review rating , these wired headphones are too good to be left out of your consideration, delivering, what our review says, "precisely what it says on the tin: provides you with a relatively affordable, brutally honest audio solution for mixing and audio engineering." View now at Amazon Apple AirPods Max Best headphones for Apple users Apple/ZDNET Pros & Cons All of the benefits of the AirPod line for Apple device owners Different color options with a sturdy design Almost universally-praised sound quality Proprietary lightning cable charging Bulky and heavy Most expensive option on this list More Details Apple AirPods Max specs: Form factor: Over-ear, closed-back | Connectivity Bluetooth 5.0 | Battery life : 20 hours (1.5 hours on a 5-minute charge) | Frequency response : 10 Hz-20,000 Hz (estimated) Despite being newcomers in the over-ear headphone market, Apple's AirPods Max have unsurprisingly established quite the Apple-ecosystem fanbase. These over-ear headphones are the only device that combines exceptional sound with all the same benefits that Apple device owners have enjoyed for years with the smaller AirPods earbuds. These features include instant connectivity, multi-device switching, and the ability to tweak settings and view charge levels on any Apple device.
Even ZDNET's Jason Cipriani sings the AirPods Max's praises for their impressive Transparency Mode and Spatial Audio, claiming the cans majorly elevated his viewing of The Mandalorian.
Review: AirPods Max: Stunning sound and performance mean I'm keeping the $550 headphones The sound quality of the Apple AirPods Max is by far the best of any Apple headphones today, especially with their ANC technology that meets or exceeds what competitors like Sony and Bose currently offer. If you're an avid Apple user and don't mind spending a little more, the Apple AirPods Max are an excellent choice for headphones.
View now at Best Buy View now at B&H Photo-Video View now at Apple more buying choices Beats Studio Pro Best luxury headphones for casual listening Jada Jones/ZDNET Pros & Cons Great for phone calls Sleek design and style Noise canceling and transparency mode Difficult to adjust EQ settings Expensive Some features are incompatible with iPhone More Details Beats Studio Pro tech specs: Form factor: Over-ear | Connectivity: Bluetooth | Battery life: 40 hours | Frequency response: 20Hz to 20kHz The Beats Studio Pros are sleeker and less flashy than the company's earlier versions of metallic Beats Studio headphones. With four neutral, matte colorways to choose from and updated features like noise canceling and transparency mode, the Studio Pros offer audio and aesthetic improvements for a $350 price tag. When ZDNET's Jada Jones tested out the headphones , she complimented the "fantastic" active noise cancelation and lossless audio that captured the cinematic sound of the Oppenheimer film score -- sans the cinema.
The new earcups sport UltraPlush, a comfortable memory foam covered by faux leather, which is a significant textural upgrade from the synthetic leather material of the Beats Solo 3 that crumbles off the earcup with continual use. These headphones serve Android and Apple users alike and boast luxury features incomparable to many Apple audio products. The one downside, however, is that some features, like multipoint connection, aren't compatible with iPhones.
View now at Walmart View now at Best Buy View now at Target more buying choices What are the best headphones? It depends on what you're looking for. We broke down different product categories and features. Whether you're looking for ANC, wired, or Apple-friendly headphones, there is a top option for you.
Headphones Price Where to Buy Form Factor Connectivity Battery Life Frequency Response Sony WH-1000XM5 headphones $398 Sony, Best Buy, Amazon Over-ear Bluetooth 5.2 30 hours 4 Hz-40,000 Hz Sony WH-CH520 headphones $58 Sony, Best Buy, Amazon On-ear Bluetooth 5.2 50 hours 20 Hz-20 kHz HyperX Cloud Alpha Wireless $200 HyperX, Best Buy, Amazon Over-ear USB adapter 300 hours 15 Hz-21 kHz Beyerdynamic DT 990 PRO X $269 Amazon, Walmart Over-ear Wired N/A 5-40,000 Hz Apple AirPods Max $549 Apple, Best Buy, Amazon Over-ear Bluetooth 5.0 20 hours 10 Hz-20,000 Hz Beats Studio Pro $350 Amazon, Best Buy Over-ear Class 1 Bluetooth 40 Hours 20Hz to 20kHz Which headphones are right for you? While all of these headphones are excellent picks, it ultimately depends on what type of connectivity you prefer, if noise cancellation is important to you, what kind of battery life they have, and how much you're willing to spend on a pair.
Choose these headphones..
If you want...
Sony WH-1000XM Exceptional noise-canceling headphones. With a comfortable fit and advanced features like ambient sound mode, touch controls, and voice-assistant compatibility, they provide a great listening experience.
Sony WH-CH520 Wireless Headphones Sony's best-in-class tech with a lighter build and price tag. These headphones are a more affordable version of Sony's flagship WH-1000XM. They still offer Sony's top-notch audio quality, multipoint connectivity, and long-lasting battery life, but in a more compact and lightweight design.
HyperX Cloud Alpha Long-lasting headphones perfect for gaming. The HyperX Cloud Alpha feature a detachable microphone, 3.5mm audio jack, and comfortable memory foam ear cups. They also have long-lasting battery life and impressive sound quality with DTS Headphone:X audio drivers and spatial audio that provides an immersive audio experience.
Beyerdynamic DT 990 PRO X Wired, open-back headphones for analytic listening. They offer a natural and detailed sound with a frequency response of 5-40,000 Hz. The headphones also come with two detachable cables, one with a standard 3.5mm jack and the other with a mini-XLR connector.
Apple AirPods Max Sleek, over-the-ear headphones for Apple users. They also come with advanced features such as active noise cancellation, Spatial Audio, and Siri support, providing an excellent listening experience for Apple device owners. The headphones provide an exceptional sound quality, too.
Beats Studio Pro Stylish, matte headphones with noise canceling and lossless audio capablities. The Studio Pros have a competitve battery life and offer fantastic wireless sound.
How did we choose these headphones? We selected these headphones after conducting thorough research by either using them to listen to music and podcasts or by evaluating the reviews of other ZDNET writers. To provide you with a comprehensive guide, we also compared sound quality, price, battery life, feel, and functionality.
Sound quality: A good pair of headphones should, unsurprisingly, deliver high quality, clean and crisp sound. We played our favorite songs and listened to our favorite podcasts using these headphones to see which boasted the best sound. While better frequency response does not always result in better sound quality, checking the frequency response range can give you a sense of how robust of sound you will receive with your headphones (20 to 20,000 Hz is widely accepted as a good frequency response range).
Price: Decent sound shouldn't cost you your whole paycheck. While some of the highlighted options go for more than $300, there are a few affordable headphone options on this list that offer competitive sound without the luxury features of a $500 AirPods Max.
Battery life: What good is crisp sound if your headphones die on you all too soon? Competitive battery life is a must for your headphones, and pairs on this list offer anywhere from 20 to 500 hours of undeterred listening time.
Feel: If your headphones are too heavy or uncomfortable on your head, why would you wear them all day? We considered weight and overall feel as we tested these to find a pair that delivers great sound without the head or ear ache.
Functionality: Details like how these headphones connect to your music or whether they seamlessly switch from one Bluetooth device to another were considered as we curated this list.
Are headphones healthier than earbuds? Over-the-ear and on-ear headphones are considered a better option than earbuds for your health since you're not physically sticking anything in your ear. However, regular headphones can still cause hearing issues if you turn up the volume too loud or wear them for more than an hour at a time.
Check out ZDNET's tips for preventing hearing loss caused by headphones for how to listen healthily.
Do headphones get worse over time? On average, a pair of headphones will last about two to three years before the components start to wear down or malfunction. However, a good quality pair of headphones that's more expensive should last you longer (about four to five years).
What makes noise-canceling headphones better than regular headphones? Noise-canceling headphones use advanced technology to actively reduce external noise, providing a more immersive and distraction-free listening experience. They're especially useful in noisy environments, such as public transportation or busy offices.
Are there alternative headphones worth considering? While the options listed above should get you pretty far, you might still be interested in alternative headphone options. Here are a few other options to look into.
Best alternative JBL Tour One M2 These headphones are stellar for deep work, with amazing noise cancellation, Smart Talk that automatically pauses as you begin a conversation, and impressive sound. Anyone who spends their days in an office or heads down at a computer will love the JBL Tour One M2 headphones.
View at Amazon BEST PRICE Bose 700 - Over-ear headphones with exceptional mic quality The Bose 700s are great for casual listening, but perfect for taking conference calls thanks to their eight different microphones.
View at Best Buy BEST PRICE Bose QuietComfort 45 - A solid pair of over-ear headphones that never disappoint The Bose QuietComfort 45 headphones are sturdy, well-performing, and as the name suggests, comfortable.
View at Amazon ZDNET Recommends The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you) The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick) The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money) Editorial standards Show Comments Community Guidelines Related The best earbuds you can buy The best wireless headphones you can buy How to choose the best over-ear headphones: ZDNET's buying guide ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
