X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Tech Why you can trust ZDNET : ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Our process 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
Home Tech Computing Tablets The best large-screen tablets you can buy Written by Jason Cipriani, Contributing Writer Allison Murray, Staff Writer Oct. 18, 2023 at 7:25 a.m. PT Kayla Solino View now View at B&H Photo-Video View now View at Samsung View now View at Amazon View now View at Lenovo View now View at Walmart View now View at Samsung The best tablets have traditionally been a large-screened alternative to smartphones. But just as the display sizes of phones continue to grow, tablets have seen their screen size increase as well. This is a welcomed trend for those who do a lot of work on a tablet, including students or those who work remotely and want something thin and lightweight but with a large screen.
Also: The best small tablets you can buy So it begs the question -- who else makes tablets with large displays? It turns out, there are more options than you'd think. Not all of them approach 15 inches, but there's more than enough screen real estate in the tablets available today.
Through expert, hands-on testing or carefully curated and researched tablet picks, ZDNET did its due diligence to deliver you a list of tablets with wide displays and tip-top performance. Our pick for the best large screen tablet is the 12.9-inch iPad Pro , but we also included options from Samsung, Microsoft, and more. Read on to find our other favorites.
The best large tablets of 2023 Apple iPad Pro 12.9-inch 6th generation Best large tablet overall Jason Cipriani/ZDNET Pros & Cons Big, vibrant display iPadOS 16.1's new multitasking feature Strong performance thanks to M2 chip Apple Pencil and Magic Keyboard are extra A fully loaded iPad Pro can get expensive More Details Apple iPad Pro t ech specs: Display : 12.9-inch Liquid Retina XDR display with ProMotion and True Tone | Processor : Apple Silicon M2 | Storage : 128GB, 256GB, 512GB, 1TB or 2TB | Biometrics : Face ID | Colors : Silver, space gray | Cameras : 12MP wide, 10MP ultrawide rear and 12MP TrueDepth FaceTime front | Weight : 1.5 pounds | Dimensions : 11.04 x 8.46 x 0.25 inches | Connections : USB-C Thunderbolt/USB-4 | Battery life: 10 hours Apple's 2022 iPad Pro lineup is by far the most capable and impressive iPad lineup we've seen, making it our best overall pick. It's also the most expensive by a long shot. The design hasn't changed all that much on the outside, but on the inside, you'll find Apple's M2 processor which consists of 20 billion transistors -- 25 percent more than the M1. It's the same exact processor that Apple is using in the new 13-inch MacBook Pro and MacBook Air.
Review: iPad Pro I spent some time with the 12.9-inch Apple iPad Pro and found it to be faster and more capable than any other iPad model I've tested to date. You can expect downloads up to 2.4Gbps, twice as fast as the previous model, 15 percent faster performance, and up to 35 percent faster graphics performance.
The Pro also supports the second-generation Apple Pencil, and there's a new hover feature thanks to the M2 chip. The feature works like this: Once the tip of the Apple Pencil gets near the iPad Pro's display, and when it's within 12 millimeters, parts of the interface come to life in apps that support the new feature. The Smart Connector is on the back of the iPad Pro, giving you the option to use it with the Magic Keyboard which includes backlit keys and a trackpad, or Apple's Smart Keyboard.
Also: M1 iPad Pro (2021) vs M2 iPad Pro (2022): Is it worth the upgrade? And, although the differences between the 5th generation and 6th generation models are more subtle, the M2 chip is really what shines here, making it a powerhouse tablet. The iPad Pro, combined with iPadOS and the M2 chip, is as close as you can get to a laptop without actually buying a laptop.
View now at B&H Photo-Video View now at Apple View now at Amazon more buying choices Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 Ultra Best Samsung large tablet June Wan/ZDNET Pros & Cons Giant and improved display IP68 rating Improved S Pen experience Occasional app crashes More Details Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 Ultra t ech specs: Display : 14.6-in Dynamic AMOLED, 120Hz | Processor : Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy | Storage : 256GB, 512GB, microSD up to 1TB | Memory : 12GB or 16GB | Colors : Graphite or Beige | Cameras : Rear: 13MP main, 8MP ultrawide, Front: 12MP main, 12MP ultrawide | Weight : 1.62lb | Dimensions : 12.85 x 8.21 x 0.21 inches | Connections : USB Type-C 3.2 Gen 1 | Battery: 11,200mAh Samsung's Galaxy Tab S9 Ultra is by and large (pun intended) the tablet with the biggest display on our list. With a 14.6-inch display, you're sure to have enough room for work and play on the Tab S9 Ultra. Included in the box is Samsung's S Pen stylus that can be used for drawing out ideas or writing notes, or you can use it to navigate the tablet's Android 13 interface -- and even write in any text field and have it automatically converted to digital text.
Among upgrades to the tablet from last year's model includes an improved Dynamic AMOLED display, an IP68 for water- and dust-resistant capabilities, an better S Pen experience, and more.
Review: Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 Ultra ZDNET writer Maria Diaz went hands-on with the Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 Ultra, and said these upgrades "give it a definitive edge over the competition." "An IP68 rating gives the Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 Ultra water and dust resistance that neither the iPad nor any premium tablet on the market is certified for," Diaz wrote. "Though I wouldn't recommend testing the limits, the Tab S9 Ultra can resist dust and is not only splash-proof but it will also survive being submerged in up to 1.5 meters of water for up to 30 minutes." View now at Samsung View now at Best Buy more buying choices Microsoft Surface Pro 8 Best large tablet for those who want a real computer Jason Cipriani/ZDNET Pros & Cons Great display Runs Windows 11 Battery life Performance You'll pay extra for a keyboard Need a stylus? That's going to cost you More Details Microsoft Surface Pro 8 t ech specs: Display : 13-inch PixelSense Flow display | Processor : Intel Core i5 or i7 | Storage : 128GB, 256GB, 512GB, 1TB | Memory: 8GB, 16GB, 32GB | Biometrics : Windows Hello | Colors : Platinum, graphite | Cameras : 5MP front-facing, 10MP rear-facing | Weight : 1.96 pounds | Dimensions : 11.3 x 8.2 x 0.37 inches | Connections : 2 x USB-C Thunderbolt 4, 3.5mm headphone jack, 1 x Surface Connect port | Battery life: 16 hours Microsoft's Surface lineup helped usher in the 2-in-1 detachable computer market, so I'd be remiss if I didn't include it on this list. It is sold as a stand-alone tablet, after all. Microsoft redesigned the Surface Pro 8 , shrinking the bezels around the 13-inch display and giving it the same basic design as the Surface Pro X.
With the Surface Pro 8, you're getting a tablet that runs Windows 11 out of the box, instead of a mobile operating system like Android or iPadOS. That means you're not going to have to worry about finding apps or workarounds for your workflows.
Review: Microsoft Surface Pro 8 for Business I also got my hands on the Microsft Surface Pro, and was (almost) converted to a Windows user. What particularly impressed me was the the addition of Thunderbolt 4 support. The ability to connect a tablet to an external display and have it actually work how it's supposed to is a huge boost for my productivity.
Of course, if you want to use the Surface Pro 8 as a laptop you'll need to buy a Surface Pro Signature Keyboard.
 Or, you can opt to get the combo that includes the keyboard and Microsoft's Slim Pen 2 stylus. There's even a handy compartment on the keyboard itself that stores the pen and charges it at the same time.
View now at Amazon View now at Walmart more buying choices Lenovo Tab Extreme Best 2-in-1 large tablet Maria Diaz/ZDNET Pros & Cons iPad Pro competitor Great for work and play Smooth camera quality Just-fine battery life Not the brightest display More Details Lenovo Tab Extreme specs : Display: 14.5-inch OLED | Processor: ‎MediaTek Dimensity 9000 | Memory: 12GB | Storage : 256GB | Cameras: Rear: 13 MP Auto-focus + 5 MP; Front: 13 MP Fixed-focus | Weight: 1.6 pounds | Dimensions: 12.9 x 8.3 x 0.23 inches | Battery: Over 8 hours The Lenovo Tab Extreme, according to our trusty tablet connoisseur, Maria Diaz, is "built for consumers who want to go from work to leisure without skipping a beat." If you want to enjoy the tech amenities of the iPad Pro but don't have the budget to do so, this tablet is an "outstanding competitor." Review: The Lenovo Tab Extreme is the iPad Pro competitor we aren't talking enough about The tablet might not have as great a battery life as an iPad Pro, but it has a quick charge and should last you over eight hours, Diaz writes in her review. With 13MP front and rear cameras, you can conduct conference calls with ease, and with video output support through its USB-C port, you can hook up the tablet to a projector or TV and use it as an external monitor. "From movie buffs, readers, audiophiles, and professionals, the Lenovo Tab Extreme best suits creatives and executives," Diaz writes.
View now at Lenovo Microsoft Surface Pro X Best large tablet for those on the go Microsoft/ZDNET Pros & Cons Classic Surface design LTE connectivity in a Windows 11 device Runs Windows 11 App compatibility remains an issue You will need to splurge on a keyboard and stylus More Details Microsoft Surface Pro X t ech specs: Display: 13-inch PixelSense display | Processor: Microsoft SQ 1 or SQ 2 | Storage: 128GB SSD | Memory: 8GB LPDDR4x | Cameras: 5.0MP front-facing camera with 1080p full HD video, 10.0MP rear-facing autofocus camera with 1080p HD and 4k video | Weight: 1.7 pounds | Dimensions : 11.3 x 8.2 x 0.28 inches | Connections: 2 USB-C, Surface Connect port, Surface Keyboard port, nano SIM | Battery: 15 hours I already included the Surface Pro 8 on this list, but the Surface Pro X deserves its own callout. The Pro 8 and Pro X share the same design along with keyboard and stylus support. What makes the Pro X different is that it's powered by Microsoft's SQ1 or SQ2 ARM-based processor. That's the same kind of processor architecture that's used by Apple in its Apple Silicon chips currently found in the iPad Pro and several Macs.
The benefits of moving to an ARM processor are seen in battery life and, in the case of the Pro X at least, the addition of LTE connectivity. However, there are some downsides. One of which is that apps need to be rebuilt to support ARM processors, instead of the tried and true Intel or AMD processors Microsoft uses in the rest of its Surface products.
Review: Microsoft Surface Pro X I've used a Surface Pro X since it first launched and while the app compatibility issue has gotten a lot better, there's still some work left to do before I'm not able to tell the difference between an app that's been updated and one that hasn't.
ZDNET contributor Simon Bisson also used the Surface Pro X and said, "Microsoft has produced an excellent device for mobile workers, with a focus on Office and the web." All of that to say -- if you're someone who likes living on the bleeding edge of technology and wants a tablet that has LTE connectivity so you can work from anywhere, the Pro X is worth considering.
View now at Walmart View now at Amazon more buying choices Samsung Galaxy Tab S7 FE Best budget large tablet Samsung/ZDNET Pros & Cons More affordable than the S8 Plus Expandable storage Good battery life Display could be better More Details Samsung Galaxy Tab S7 FE tech s pecs: Display : 12.4-inch, 2560x1600 display | Processor : Qualcomm SM7325 | Storage : 64GB, 128GB, 256GB | Memory : 4GB, 6GB, 8GB | Colors : Black, silver, green, pink | Cameras : 8MP rear, 5MP front camera | Weight : 1.34lb | Dimensions : 7.28 x 11.21 x 0.25 inches | Connections : USB-C | Battery: 12 hours If you want to spend less on a big tablet, Samsung's "FE" series of devices are designed with Samsung fans in mind. That is, the company takes the best features of its high-end devices, trims some of them down, and releases a more affordable product.
The Tab S7 FE has a large 12.4-inch display, a snappy processor, as well as multiple storage and memory options. The device, which comes in various colors, also has a 5G version available if you want to use it while on the go.
Some standout features include face recognition technology, two stereo speakers with Dolby Atmos, and multi-device connectivity. It also has a great battery life that will last you for at least 12 hours.
While the display on the S7 FE isn't as nice as the S8 Ultra, it's still more than suitable for streaming or playing games, and it also comes with an S Pen, adding even more to its affordability.
View now at Samsung View now at Walmart View now at Amazon more buying choices What is the best large tablet? The best large tablet is the iPad Pro (2021), thanks to its powerful Apple M1 chip, impressive cameras, and optional 5G support.
Large tablet Price Display Storage iPad Pro (6th generation) Starting at $1,099 12.9-inch Liquid Retina XDR display 128GB, 256GB, 512GB, 1TB or 2TB Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 Ultra Starting at $1,320 14.6-in Dynamic AMOLED, 120Hz 256GB, 512GB, microSD up to 1TB Microsoft Surface Pro 8 Starting at $1,100 13-inch PixelSense Flow display 128GB, 256GB, 512GB, 1TB Lenovo Tab Extreme $1,099 14.5-inch OLED display 256GB Microsoft Surface Pro X Starting at $899 13-inch PixelSense display 128GB SSD Samsung Galaxy Tab S7 FE $530 12.4-inch, 2560x1600 display 64GB, 128GB, 256GB Which large tablet is right for you? When trying to decide between one of these tablets, the biggest question to ask yourself is what operating system do you want. Once you figure out if you need a full computer experience or if a mobile-centric operating system is enough, you can narrow it down from there.
If you're stuck deciding between the Surface Pro 8 and Surface Pro X, I'd recommend going with the Pro 8 only because you don't have to worry about app compatibility as you do with the Pro X.
Choose this large tablet...
If you want...
iPad Pro 6th generation The best overall option with a vibrant display and exceptional performance. The M2 processor gives you all the power you need for work, content creation, and streaming.
Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 Ultra To stay in the Android ecosystem, have a great battery life, and get an included S Pen. It is even waterproof.
Microsoft Surface Pro 8 A large tablet that can replace the need for a desktop computer with its robust display and strong performance. Its compact size makes it perfect for mobile professionals.
Lenovo Tab Extreme A large 2-in-1 tablet perfect for deep work with crisp and smooth cameras. Use this during the workday for conference calls, and, once the work day ends, hook it up to your TV to stream your favorite shows and movies.
Microsoft Surface Pro X A large tablet to take with you on the go thanks to the LTE connectivity and lightweight design. With LTE connectivity, you can access the internet when Wi-Fi networks aren't available.
Samsung Galaxy S7 FE A super affordable tablet with a large display, expandable storage, and good battery life. For under $500, you'll still get premium-grade features like Dolby Atmos support and a 12-hour battery life.
How did I choose these large-screen tablets? There aren't many options for tablets with large displays, so I considered a few points while comparing models: Price: While we can expect to pay at least a few hundred dollars for a basic tablet, tablets with large screens and/or premium components and features can cost thousands.
Storage: Because having a tablet that you can't actually use is no fun. I chose large-screen tablets that had varying levels of internal storage as well as microSD card expansion slots.
Connectivity: While Wi-Fi connectivity is now standard for tablets and other mobile devices, it may also be worth looking at tablets that also support LTE cellular data for when Wi-Fi networks are unavailable. This feature is great for mobile professionals who may not always be able to access traditional internet networks.
Weight: Large screens are all fine and dandy, but if the tablet is a pain to carry around, it's not going to get used much. I made sure to choose large-screen tablets that were still on the lightweight side for better portability.
What are the different tablet sizes? Tablets range in size from small to large. Small tablets are usually five to seven inches. Mid-size tablets have a screen ranging from nine to 11 inches. Then, there are large tablets with screen sizes from 12-14 inches.
Keep in mind that the larger the tablet, the heavier it will usually be.
Do I need a keyboard and stylus for a large-screen tablet? Neither accessory is a requirement. It all depends on how you plan to use the tablet. If you're going to use it for watching movies, playing games, or reading books, a keyboard isn't required.
However, if you plan on using it as a weekend replacement for your laptop, or for school, then, yes, you'll need to spend the extra money on one. You can get Bluetooth options online or at electronic stores, and they're perfect traveling companions for when you want to work or play on the go.
Is there really that big of a difference between Android and iPadOS? There is a big difference in terms of the quantity and quality of apps that are available for iPadOS over Android. Apple and third-party developers have spent years fine-tuning the experience on the larger display device.
Google has all but admitted it gave up on making Android tablets, and developers have taken the company's lead. You'll find a lot of apps you can install and use, but ultimately they're nothing more than the phone version of the app, and many just don't work as they should.
Are there alternative large-screen tablets to consider? Large-screen tablets are easier to find than small tablets, so it just takes some research into the market. Here are a few other large-screen tablets I recommend.
Best Android alternative Lenovo Yoga Tab 11 This large-screen tablet is perfect for family sharing and catching up on your favorite entertainment.
View at Amazon BEST PRICE Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra As a predecessor to the Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 lineup, this large-screen tablet has plenty of specs worth considering.
View at Amazon Best affordable alternative Amazon Fire HD 10 Plus This affordable device comes with a solid battery life at a decent price for a large screen.
View at Amazon ZDNET Recommends The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you) The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick) The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money) Editorial standards Show Comments Community Guidelines Related The best iPads you can buy right now (and how to save on one) You can buy four of these very fine Android tablets for the price of one iPad The best laptops: Apple, Dell, Microsoft, and more compared ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
