X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Tech Why you can trust ZDNET : ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Our process 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
Home Tech Smartphones The best Samsung Galaxy phones you can buy Written by June Wan, Reviews Editor Nov. 16, 2023 at 8:07 a.m. PT Kayla Solino View now View at Samsung View now View at Samsung View now View at Amazon View now View at Best Buy View now View at Amazon View now View at Best Buy Of all the phone manufacturers, Samsung's lineup of handsets may be the most robust. Want a phone that has a built-in stylus? You've got that. Want a phone that can expand into a tablet? You've got that too.
Also: The best early Black Friday Samsung deals Basically, finding the best Samsung phone for you boils down to your personal needs, use cases, and design preferences. The freedom of choice here is particularly useful during the holiday shopping season, whether you're buying for that relative who wants a phone that "just works" or you're just looking to upgrade to something with more technical prowess.
To make the shopping process easy, I've personally tested most--if not all--the latest Galaxy phones that Samsung has to offer, and assembled a catalog of the top options for your choosing, including the more recent Galaxy Z Flip and Z Fold series, the value-driven A-series, and my top pick right now, the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra.
Also: The best Android phones you can buy right now (including flipping foldables) The best Samsung phones in 2023 Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra Best Samsung phone overall June Wan/ZDNET Pros & Cons Most complete smartphone experience money can buy Reliable quad-camera setup 256GB base storage leads the competition Integrated S Pen stylus for enhanced functionality Phone can be unwieldy for some, especially with a case Fast charging is still capped at 45W Pricier than most Android phones More Details Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra tech specs: Processor: Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy | Display: 6.8 inches | RAM / Storage Options: 12GB RAM with 256GB/512GB/1TB | Rear cameras: 200MP main, 12MP ultrawide, 10MP 10x optical, 10MP 3x optical | Battery : 5,000mAh In the grand calculus of the Samsung multiverse, the Galaxy S23 Ultra reigns supreme. It's arguably the most no-frills smartphone that you can buy on the market, let alone from Samsung, which puts it at the top spot on our list.
The Galaxy S23 Ultra comes with a large 6.8-inch AMOLED display, a beefy 5,000mAh battery that can last you as long as two days, a customized Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy processor to keep things running efficiently, and the sacred Samsung S Pen -- ideal for jotting down notes, graphics designing, or even signing PDFs.
Review: Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra I tested the Galaxy S23 Ultra earlier this year and called it "one of the most complete handsets you can buy this year -- whether you like and need the excessive amount of features or not." Being the latest and greatest also means that the S23 Ultra comes equipped with Samsung's newest advancements in camera technology, including a 200-megapixel main lens that's capable of capturing the highest-resolution images we've seen on any Galaxy phone. There's also 8K video recording at 30 frames per second if you're into that.
All this is to say that the Galaxy S23 Ultra is our pick for the best Samsung phone overall.
View now at Samsung View now at Best Buy View now at Amazon more buying choices Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus Best Samsung phone for most people Jason Cipriani/ZDNET Pros & Cons More wieldy 6.6-inch display Snappy performance with an Ultra-level processor Excellent battery life Samsung's software can be overbearing Selfie camera smoothening is aggressive More Details Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus tech specs: Processor: Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy | Display: 6.6 inches | RAM / Storage: 8GB RAM with 256GB/512TB | Rear cameras: 50MP main, 12MP ultrawide, 10MP telephoto| Battery : 4,700mAh Samsung's Galaxy S23 Plus is not as flashy as its Ultra sibling but remains a formidable pick-up for shoppers eyeing a meaningful upgrade. In fact, the core experience of the Ultra model is present on the Plus, including the OneUI software, Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy chipset, 256GB of base storage, and a flexible camera system.
I'd argue that the Plus-sized Galaxy S23, in some ways, is an even better phone to buy for some users. For example, it has a slightly smaller 6.6-inch display that makes it easier to manage with one hand, the panel is flat along the edges so it's less susceptible to damage (and easier to repair), and the camera system doesn't look like a tarantula staring back at you.
Review: Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus Alright, that last point might not be the best reason to buy the Plus model over the Ultra, but perhaps the $200 price difference is. At a starting price of $999 -- less if you wait for the holiday shopping season right around the corner -- the S23 Plus is the best Samsung phone for those who can live without all the Galaxy bells and whistles. And according to ZDNET reviewer, Jason Cipriani, "as far as the S23 Plus is concerned, you're getting your money's worth." View now at Samsung View now at Target View now at Best Buy more buying choices Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 Best Samsung foldable phone June Wan/ZDNET Pros & Cons An innovative gapless folding design Armor Aluminum material for a lighter and sleeker phone High IPX8 water resistance S Pen support Improved processor and software optimized for foldables Still expensive, but generous trade-in offers abound S Pen purchase and store separately More Details Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 tech specs: Processor: Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 | Main display: 7.6 inches | Cover display: 6.2 inches | RAM/Storage: 12GB RAM with 256GB/512GB/1TB internal options | Cameras: 12MP ultrawide, 50MP wide angle, 10MP 3x telephoto, 10MP cover screen, 4MP under main display | Battery: 4,400mAh The 2020 Galaxy Z Fold 2 set the bar for foldable devices that also serve as mini tablets. The Z Fold 3 improved on that phone with two of the most highly requested features from Fold users (S Pen support and IPX8 water resistance), while the Z Fold 4 improved the rear cameras and form factor of the phone.
And now, with the Z Fold 5, you'll get an upgraded processor in the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2, which should improve the phone's overall performance, from battery efficiency to camera capture. This year's model is also notably thinner than the last, and thanks to the no-gap hinge mechanism, ZDNET's Jason Hiner said in his review that "the Fold 5 feels like the way foldables always should have been." Review: Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 The Android 13 software found in the Z Fold 5 gives the phone some serious productivity upgrades, especially in terms of multi-app usage thanks to the improved Taskbar and wider support for gesture navigations that ease the transition from multiple active windows.
Like the Z Fold 4, the Fold 5's cameras are not quite as good as the S23 Ultra's suite, but the hardware is clearly superior to any foldable predecessor, and the competition.
 And it certainly helps that the Z Fold 5 is not as heavy and bulky as its predecessors.
View now at Amazon Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 Best compact Samsung phone June Wan/ZDNET Pros & Cons High-quality materials, fit, and finish IPX8 water resistance Larger external display is game-changing The most pocketable Galaxy phone yet No telephoto camera Battery is reasonably underwhelming compared to larger phones More Details Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 tech specs: Processor: Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 | Main display: 6.7 inches | Cover display: 3.4 inches | RAM/Storage: 8GB RAM with 256GB/512GB internal options | Cameras: Two rear 12MP, 10MP selfie | Battery: 3,700mAh While the Z Fold 5 is the best Samsung foldable, it's the new Z Flip 5 that will likely sell the most and appeal to the masses. Not only is the clamshell handset less expensive than the Z Fold, but it's more compact and portable and has a more user-friendly learning curve.
Shape-shifting displays aside, the Z Flip 5 is very similar to the standard Samsung Galaxy S-series flagship, with a large 6.7-inch AMOLED panel that's crisp and bright, up to 512GB of RAM for those high-resolution pictures and videos, and a healthy 3,700mAh cell powering it all.
Review: Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 I tested the flip phone for weeks and was left impressed by how many refinements Samsung had made when compared to the last-gen Z Flip. Thanks to the new 3.4-inch outer display, the gapless hinge design, and improved durability, I noted in my full review that "unless Samsung unveils some form of XR headset later this year, the Z Flip 5 is without question the company's most ambitious product of 2023." Folks who thrive in social media and content creation especially will love the Z Flip 5's ability to switch between shooting styles like camcorder mode and flex mode , much like its predecessor, the Z Flip 4. The camera system on this is not on the level of Samsung's Ultra and Plus phones, but it's reliable enough for everyday captures.
View now at Best Buy View now at Amazon View now at Walmart more buying choices Samsung Galaxy A54 5G Best Samsung phone under $450 June Wan/ZDNET Pros & Cons Price is more than reasonable A 'jack of all trades, master of none' smartphone Reliable 5,000mAh battery Up to five years of software and security updates Low-band 5G support Plasticky build quality Cameras are not as capable as flagships More Details Samsung Galaxy A54 5G tech specs: Processor: Samsung Exynos 1380 | Display: 6.4 inches| RAM/Storage: 6GB/128GB | Cameras: 50MP wide, 12MP ultrawide, 5MP macro, and 32MP front-facing camera | Battery: 5,000mAh While the flagship Galaxy S and Z fold series provide compelling options, they are flagship phones priced in the $900 and higher range. In order to offer customers another alternative, Samsung created the Galaxy A series, led by none other than the A54 5G.
There are really three key reasons why you should buy the Galaxy A54 5G over any other sub-$500 phone: For $449, you get a fantastic 6.4-inch AMOLED display that ramps up to 120Hz refresh rate, a triple-camera setup that includes a 50MP main sensor, and a beefy 5,000mAh battery.
Review: Samsung Galaxy A54 5G Clearly, Samsung knows what features users value the most, and if you have preferences beyond that list, then there are plenty of other picks above and below.
The A-series of smartphones also fall under Samsung's five-year commitment to software and security updates, which is rare for devices in this price range. As I put it in my review of the device, "This $450 phone absolutely nails the essentials -- things like a large display that feels as smooth as it looks, battery life that lasts, and software stability that similarly-priced phones simply can't match." View now at Amazon View now at Samsung View now at Best Buy more buying choices Samsung Galaxy A14 5G Best cheap Samsung phone Samsung/ZDNET Pros & Cons Affordably priced and available unlocked Large 6.6-inch display with all-day battery life Extensive software support Plastic build is not for all Macro and depth cameras are unreliable Only one color option: Black More Details Samsung Galaxy A14 5G tech specs: Processor: Mediatek Dimensity 700 | Display: 6.6 inches| RAM/Storage: 4GB/64GB | Cameras: 50MP wide, 2MP macro, 2MP depth sensor, and 13MP front-facing camera | Battery: 5,000mAh The flashiest of smartphone features tend to exist only on flagships, but many will find appeal in Samsung's humble Galaxy A14 5G, which boasts 5G connectivity, a massive 5,000mAh battery, and a budget-friendly $200 price tag. That's a compelling new package at a time when consumers are cutting down on spending.
And don't let the lower cost fool you; the Galaxy A14 5G has all the specs you'd want for a feasible mobile companion, from the relatively large 6.6-inch 90Hz display -- a rarity in this price range -- to the expandable storage (up to 1TB) to Samsung's four-year commitment to security patches. Oh, and the front-facing camera is higher resolution than ever for the selfie-lover in your life.
I spent time with the A15 5G just a week ago as my partner was upgrading her to the Z Flip 5 mentioned above. The phone won't feel like a million dollars, for one, but it was surprisingly sturdy to hold -- devices in this price range tend to feel more hollow and toy-like -- and the 90Hz display looked great for app browsing and navigating around.
Also: Samsung just launched its cheapest 5G Galaxy phone yet View now at Best Buy View now at Walmart View now at Amazon more buying choices What is the best Samsung phone? While the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra sits at the top of this year's ranking list, here's a wider scope of ZDNET's best picks and their respective feature sets.
Samsung phone Price Display Cameras Battery Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra 5G $1,199 6.8 inches 200MP wide, 10MP with 10x optical, 10MP with 3x optical, and 12MP ultrawide. 12MP front-facing camera 5,000mAh Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus $1,799 6.6 inches 50MP wide, 10MP with 3x optical, and 12MP ultrawide, 12MP front-facing camera 4,700mAh Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 $1,799 7.6 inches and 6.2 inches 50MP wide, 10MP with 3x optical, and 12MP ultrawide, 10MP cover screen, 4MP under main display 4,400mAh Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 $999 6.7 inches and 3.4 inches 12MP wide, 12MP ultrawide, 10MP front-facing camera 3,700mAh Samsung Galaxy A54 5G $449 6.4 inches 50MP wide, 12MP ultrawide, 5MP macro, and 32MP front-facing camera 5,000mAh Samsung Galaxy A14 5G $199 6.6 inches 50MP wide, 2MP macro, 2MP depth sensor, and 13MP front-facing camera 5,000mAh Which Samsung phone is right for you? It was much easier to choose a Samsung phone option in the past when just the S and Note series were available, along with some low-range, basic phones. Samsung has significantly expanded its offerings with the A Series, Fold, and Flip options. So, the first thing you should now consider is your desired form factor.
First, decide if you want a standard "glass rectangle" smartphone or if you want a folding device. For maximum screen real estate, get a Z Fold 5. Or, for taking up the minimum space in your pocket and providing that extra bit of style, get a Z Flip 5 or Galaxy S23.
With Samsung's current lineup, you have phones priced from under $200 to over $1,200. Your budget should quickly help you figure out which price point is right for you. From there, begin comparing individual features, like stylus support, or which device has the best camera array.
Choose this Samsung phone...
If you want...
Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra The top-of-the-line flagship Samsung phone with all the bells and whistles in a traditional form factor. It's pricier than most but is worth the money if you want a no-frills handset that can do just about everything.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus A Galaxy phone capable of accomplishing 80% of what the Ultra model can do and costs less. The Galaxy S23 Plus is also slightly smaller, making it easier to manage.
Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 A tablet/smartphone hybrid foldable and one of the most innovative Samsung devices available. It's arguably the best foldable phone on the market, too.
Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 A stylish and pocket-friendly smartphone that doesn't compromise performance. If you're shopping for your first foldable phone, this is the best place to start.
Samsung Galaxy A54 5G You're shopping on a $500 budget. Even then, you'll receive a generous suite of premium features like the 120Hz OLED display, triple-camera setup, and long-lasting battery.
Samsung Galaxy A14 5G You're shopping on a $200 budget, but still want a good handset. It's difficult to impress in this price range, but the A14 5G gets the job done.
How did I choose these Samsung phones? ZDNET writers spend upwards of months with every phone in this best list, while sourcing opinions and recommendations from industry experts and analysts who have also tested the devices. Here are the key factors that we look for when curating the top picks.
Design : Unlike how we would compare the best Android phones , comparing Samsung phones across different price points mostly boils down to the hardware. How a phone is designed, what material choices the manufacturer makes, and whether or not the device can take a hit or two are considered when picking the very best.
Cameras : The camera systems on Samsung phones have gotten really good over the past few years, so much so that you're well off even if you opt for a mid-ranger like the Galaxy A54.
Special features : If there's one thing that differentiates most Samsung phones from other manufacturers, it's unique features. From the S23 Ultra with its built-in stylus and 200MP camera to the foldable screens of the Z Fold and Z Flip, you'll feel a sense of wonderment when using something that's built differently.
Availability : Samsung has a reputation for bringing the wildest phones to the press, even if they're not readily available. That's why, every pick on this list can be purchased at the time of writing, whether that's on Samsung's website or at a local carrier store.
What is the newest Samsung phone? The newest Samsung phone is the Galaxy S23 FE , which features a Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 processor, a 6.4-inch Dynamic AMOLED display, and a triple camera system at the rear.
What is Bixby on Samsung phones? Bixby was first introduced in the Galaxy S8 phones and, according to Samsung, is an "intelligence assistant" that can be activated by voice, taps, or text. Bixby is essentially Samsung's version of Siri and can perform the typical smart assistant functions like telling you the weather, translating text, and even controlling smart home appliances.
Which Samsung phone has the best camera? The Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra has the best camera of any Samsung phone and one of the best overall cameras on the phone market. It features a 200MP main camera along with four accompanying cameras, which allow it to take extremely high-quality shots including close-up images and ones that are ultrawide. The S23 Ultra can also video record in up to 8K UHD quality at 30fps, making it one of the most capable phone cameras money can buy.
Which Samsung phone is the best value for money? There's beating around the Galaxy A54 5G and its wealth of flagship-killing features and specs. As flagship smartphones continue to creep up in price -- no thanks to inflation -- a $450 that does everyday tasks well is both a surprise and a blessing. As mentioned earlier, the value package of the A54 5G only looks better when you compare it to other smartphones in its price range, like the iPhone SE (2022) and now Google Pixel 7a.
Are there alternative phones to consider? Be sure to check out ZDNET's comparisons of the best phones and Android phones available. We've also listed the top (non-Samsung) picks from both those guides below for your convenience.
Best premium phone alternative Google Pixel 8 Pro The latest Pixel to hit the market, the Pixel 8 Pro delivers a familiar Google camera experience but now with enhanced generative AI features like Audio Magic Eraser, Magic Editor, and more.
View at Amazon Best foldable alternative Motorola Razr Plus In many ways, the Motorola Razr Plus is superior to the Galaxy Z Flip 5, like the larger 3.6-inch external display and higher refresh rate panels. It also costs the same, making it a killer alternative.
View at Amazon Best mid-range alternative Samsung Galaxy S23 FE The latest addition to the Galaxy S23 lineup, the FE offers flagship features at a more accessible price point.
View at Samsung ZDNET Recommends The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you) The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick) The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money) Editorial standards Show Comments Community Guidelines Related The best Android phones that we tested this year The 34 best early Black Friday phone deals: iPhone 15, Pixel 8, Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 You should buy Samsung's most confusing phone this year for these reasons, and these reasons only ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
