X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Health Why you can trust ZDNET : ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Our process 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
Home Health Fitness Forget a smartwatch: These are the best smart rings you can buy Written by Sherin Shibu, Contributor Nov. 17, 2023 at 6:15 a.m. PT Gabriela Pérez Jordán View now View at Oura Ring View now View at McLear View now View at Circular View now View at Amazon View now View at Sleepon Smart tech keeps getting smarter, and the smallest pieces of technology are making big waves. Take smart rings, for example. They are the latest accessory to undergo a smart tech makeover, with health, fitness, and sleep tracking features, contactless payment options, and more. All around your finger.
Also: The best smartwatches If smartwatches aren't your speed but you still want to keep track of how your body recovers from a workout, your heart rate, and more, a smart ring is a lighter alternative that provides by-the-minute insights on your health. And, because they're wrapped around your finger near larger blood vessels instead of your wrist, some smart ring monitors provide a more accurate picture of your health data than smartwatches do.
The best smart rings, like smartwatches, house a comprehensive suite of health and sleep-tracking features. They take a more discreet, less hindering approach. Some options even include non-health-related NFC features like contactless payment and virtual business card functionality.
Also: The best fitness rings Our tested pick for the best smart ring overall is the Oura Ring 3 , thanks to its lightweight fit, quick charges, and impressive health suite. Plus, it's on sale right now ahead of Black Friday. Read on to learn more about the perks of the Oura, and which other top smart rings might be worth considering.
The best smart rings of 2023 Oura Ring Gen3 Best smart ring overall Sherin Shibu/ZDNET Pros & Cons Lightweight and natural fit Quickly charges Automatic firmware updates Operates in Airplane mode Recurring $5.99/month membership No half-sizes More Details Oura Ring Gen3 specs: Material : Lightweight titanium with non-allergenic, non-metallic inner molding | Battery life : 4-7 days | Charging: Full charge in 20 to 80 minutes | Compatibility: iOS and Android | Durability: Water-resistant up to 328 feet | Sizing: Free sizing kit with purchase on their site Sherin Shibu, ZDNET contributor, purchased a Heritage Oura Ring and tested it with weekly activities, like strength training, cycling, yoga, and more. Not only was it a capable and accurate tracker, but it didn't overwhelm Shibu with data. Instead, the Oura prioritized on actionable insights and solutions. For example, the over 50 guided meditation options have helped Shibu to alleviate stress and sleep more soundly.
Additionally, the simplified overall score appears with a detailed chart monitoring heart rate, body temperature, and blood oxygen levels through the night. The ring also automatically senses when you're stressed and adjusts your activity goals accordingly.
This comprehensive but simple approach is evident in the ring's form factor and integrations -- it amazed Shibu how such a sleek device can hold a catalog of information. The ring syncs with Apple Health, and Google Fit, as well as iOS and Android apps, allowing you to see your daily and even monthly metrics from your mobile device.
The downside is that there's a $5.99 per month membership cost to unlock the more personal insights, like in-depth morning sleep analysis and temperature trend monitoring (which can even predict early stages of illness). Non-paying members, however, only have access to sleep, readiness, and activity insights.
Review: Oura Ring 3 View now at Oura Ring McLear RingPay Best smart ring coming soon for contactless payments McLear/ZDNET Pros & Cons Contactless operation features No charging required RingPay app tracks spending Releasing in the UK first (not yet available in the US) More Details McLear RingPay specs: Material : Hypoallergenic ceramic | Compatibility: iOS and Android | Charging: No charging required | Durability: Waterproof | Sizing: Sizes 4.5-16 available; ring sizer available at checkout; free size exchanges The minimalistic, polished RingPay integrates the ever-helpful contactless payment technology. The ring is faster to use than contactless alternatives, like unlocking your phone wallet or using a credit card.
The RingPay comes from McLear, the company that built the first NFC (near-field communication or wireless data transfer) ring to unlock doors digitally. Similarly, McLear promises that the ring can unlock your NFC-enabled Android phones and tablets with just a touch from ring to device. You can store and securely share information, including Wi-Fi information, website links, and contact information to your friends' devices. Additionally, if you set your name and business credentials as the digital message, it can serve as the ultimate hands-free networking device when held to someone else's device.
McClear's website says the ring is set to release in the UK first but will quickly launch in other areas, offering an option to join the waitlist.
View now at McLear Circular Ring The best smart ring for health tracking basics Circular/ZDNET Pros & Cons Four interchangeable outer shells Monitors blood oxygen and heart rate Future firmware updates included in purchase Requires charging More Details Circular Ring specs: Material: Hypoallergenic material with interchangeable outer shells | Battery life : Four days | Charging: 60 minutes | Compatibility: iOS and Android | Durability : Water resistant | Sizing: Sizing kit available for purchase The Circular Ring launched last year, and the company markets the ring as "the most advanced wearable tracking device." The ring focuses on three main components: Sleep, activity, and health. The device tracks precise heart rate, breathing rate, blood oxygen levels, temperature, and motion during sleep with emphasis on quality, duration, and circadian rhythm. You'll even get notifications about irregular heart rates and blood oxygen levels. Plus, the ring promises 10 days of built-in data storage without Bluetooth connection.
For fitness, you'll get an energy score that tells you how much energy you've exerted throughout the day, and the ring automatically tracks your workouts. The technology organizes data in an easy-to-read app so you can better understand your habits and make better health decisions.
Also: Best Fitness trackers View now at Circular Hecere NFC Ring The best budget NFC smart ring Hecere/ZDNET Pros & Cons Customizable tracking Includes a ring box Can be used as an NFC business card Waterproof No half sizes Only one color option No health tracking metrics More Details Hecere NFC Ring specs: Material : Zirconia ceramic and epoxy resin | Chip : NFC 215 | Compatibility: Android and iOS | Battery: N/A | Charging: N/A | Durability : Waterproof | Sizing features: Sizes 5-14; follow sizing guide before placing your order The Hecere NFC ring is the best smart ring for tech-savvy people who may want to use your ring to open your phone, or even as a networking tool.
 It's delivered blank with a built-in rewritable chip. You can download an NFC app for free and program the ring to function however you want, whether you want the ring to turn on Wi-Fi, make a call, or share a contact.
The sensing technology in this ring is more advanced than that in comparable products. If you want a fun, customizable project, this could be the ring for you.
Also: Why this $23 remote control ring is a must-have View now at Amazon Go2sleep Ring Best smart ring for sleep Go2sleep/ZDNET Pros & Cons Sleep-tracking focus Supports airplane mode Continuous upgrades One-year warranty Ring removal required for report generation More Details Go2sleep Ring specs: Material: Acrylic/PC+ABS plastics | Battery life : Three days | Sizing: Three sizes of silicone finger covers | Compatibility: iOS and Android: | Durability: Waterproof | Charging: Two-hour magnetic charging The Go2sleep ring is dedicated to one function: Tracking your sleep based on heart rate, blood oxygen levels, and heart rate variability. If you or anyone in your family lives with a sleep condition, this ring could be a useful tool.
Also: The best sleep trackers You can share data with family members on the app to learn more about their sleep habits, and even download your sleep reports as Excel files to show your medical provider.
The advanced technology can wake you up during your lightest sleep phase in the morning, so you won't feel disoriented right when it's time to get up. The Go2sleep ring automatically syncs with the Health app on iOS devices, and it features a ring-finding function so you can locate the device if it's misplaced.
View now at Sleepon What is the best smart ring? I recommend the Oura Ring 3 as the best smart ring based on its extensive capabilities. However, there are other great choices out there, too. This table compares the best smart rings based on price, battery life, and materials.
Smart ring Price Battery life Material Oura Ring 3 $299 4-7 days Titanium with non-allergenic interior McLear RingPay $111 No charging required Hypoallergenic ceramic Circular Ring $284 Up to four days Hypoallergenic inner material with interchangeable external shells Hecere NFC Ring $34 No charging required Zirconia ceramic material and epoxy resin Go2sleep Ring $129 Up to four days Acrylic/PC+ABS plastics Which is the right smart ring for you? It depends on your needs and your budget. For example, if you want a smart ring that primarily tracks your sleeping habits, then the Go2sleep ring is a wise choice. Or if you want the most durable option, the titanium body of the Oura Ring 3 will hold up for your wildest adventures. Below, our table helps you determine the right ring for you based on specific uses: Choose this smart ring… If you want… Oura Ring 3 The best smart ring overall with a titanium body, full charging in 20 to 80 minutes, and automatic firmware updates. Health tracking is accurate and comprehensive without overwhelming you with data.
McLear RingPay A smart ring for payments that can also unlock devices with no charging required. Sign up to join the waitlist for when it ships to the United States.
Circular Ring A waterproof smart ring to track your fitness levels with blood oxygen and heart rate monitoring. You can also use the ring as a smart alarm clock or remote smart control, as well as set timers and reminders.
Hecere NFC Ring A customizable tracking smart ring that doubles as an NFC business card. There's no battery or charging to keep track of, allowing for smooth transfer of information, worry-free.
Go2sleep Ring To consistently track your sleep habits based on heart rate and blood oxygen levels. You can even download sleep reports and data as Excel files to share with your medical provider.
How did we choose these smart rings? I analyzed the overall quality and functionality of smart rings on the market right now. I took into account factors such as pricing, specific purposes, durability, and device compatibility.
Purpose and functionality: Traditionally, smart rings like Oura are a substitute for a smartwatch or other health tracking device. We considered rings that did monitor factors like blood oxygen testing, sleep and heart rate tracking, and activity metrics but also considered rings with smart nuances, such as NFC readings and making contactless payments.
Durability: To go from jewelry accessory to smart staple, there are certain durability aspects these rings should include to maximize benefits. We considered if the rings were waterproof, water-resistant, or coated with any extra protection.
Device compatibility: Unlike a smartwatch, smart rings don't have an interactive display. Therefore, all the data is housed via a third-party software. We made sure these choices were compatible with some tech fan favorites such as iOS and Android.
Design: One of the benefits of a smart ring is that, ideally, it's sleek, subtle, and comfortable to wear -- even as your finger may swell in the summer heat.
Which is the best fitness ring? Other ZDNET experts also assessed the Oura Ring 3 as the best overall smart ring in the fitness wearable market, especially if your goal is to specifically track exercise and workout recovery.
Can the Oura ring tell if you're sick? Yes, by measuring heart rate variability (HRV), the Oura Ring 3 has also proven to show early signs of sickness. Wake Forest University's Dr. Jason Fanning, for example, saw that his "heart rate variability went through the floor" thanks to his Oura Ring data, days before he tested positive for COVID-19.
Are smart rings reliable? Smart rings can provide more accurate readings than smartwatches because they are worn close to large blood vessels located in the fingers. In contrast, smartwatch sensors utilize small capillaries for readings.
What can a smart ring do? Smart rings can be useful for a variety of functions. A ring like the McLear RingPay is ideal if contactless payments are your top priority. If you want 24/7 monitoring of your blood oxygen and heart rate, go with the Circular Ring. Smart rings can go as far as you need, and you can even program your own with the Hecere NFC Ring.
Smart rings also tend to have long battery lives, while some don't require charging at all.
When does the Evie ring come out? Making its debut at CES 2023 , Movano Health says its women's health-focused Evie Ring will be available in November 2023.
Are there alternative smart rings worth considering? There are various smart rings on the market that didn't make the cut for my top five. However, I've included a few other smart rings that receive honorable mentions: Best alternative for sleep tracking and checking blood pressure BodiMetrics Circul Plus Sleep & Fitness Ring This smart ring offers fitness tracking tools and a waterproof body to withstand sweat, according to longtime ZDNET contributor, Matt Miller.
View at Amazon Best alternative to look out for Evie Ring A comprehensive health smart ring capable of measuring sleep quality, menstrual cycles, and physical activity that's coming in November.
View at Evie Ring Best alternative that doubles as a keycard Colmo Tesla Smart Ring A smart ring that doubles as a keycard for your Tesla Model 3.
View at Amazon ZDNET Recommends The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you) The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick) The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money) Editorial standards Show Comments Community Guidelines Related The best fitness rings to track your health metrics without the bulk The 16 best early Black Friday smartwatch deals The best Apple Watches you can buy (and which are on sale for Black Friday) ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
