X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Tech Why you can trust ZDNET : ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Our process 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
Home Tech Security VPN The best VPN services you can buy Written by Charlie Osborne, Contributing Writer David Gewirtz, Senior Contributing Editor Nov. 15, 2023 at 9:00 a.m. PT Nina Raemont View now View at ExpressVPN View now View at Surfshark View now View at PIA View now View at NordVPN View now View at ProtonVPN The best virtual private networks (VPNs) provide two services: They encrypt your data between two points and hide the IP address where you're located.
Using a VPN is critical when traveling or using the internet in a public place like a coffee shop to keep your data secure and prevent anyone else on the network from stealing your passwords or eavesdropping on your activity.
VPNs are also great for streaming because they unlock access (in some cases, with dubious legality) to content and sports unavailable in a user's location. You can also unblock content restricted in areas due to data protection laws, such as the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
Also: The best travel VPNs To find the best VPN service for your personal needs, you'll need to compare brands, prices, features, and more. ZDNET tested the best VPNs on this list based on speed, number of servers, security features, price, and more.
ExpressVPN is our pick for the best VPN overall, thanks to its fast and reliable connection and the wide range of platforms it works on. It's not the cheapest VPN available, but if you want a solid VPN for the foreseeable future that is click-and-go, ExpressVPN is for you. Read on to find the best VPN for your own devices and needs.
The best VPNs of 2023 ExpressVPN Best VPN overall June Wan/ZDNET Pros & Cons Fast and reliable connection Works on many platforms Transparent privacy policy Torrent-friendly More expensive than some competitors More Details ExpressVPN f eatures: Simultaneous Connections : Up to 8 devices | Kill Switch: Yes | Platforms: Windows, Mac, Linux, Chromebooks ( see the full list here ) | Logging: No browsing logs, some connection logs | Countries: 105 | Trial/Money-back guarantee: 30 days ExpressVPN is our top choice for the best VPN service. It's one of the most popular VPN providers, offering a wide range of platforms, and it's a well-regarded, trusted service. Platforms include Windows, macOS, iOS, Android, Linux, and Amazon operating systems.
You can also manually set up ExpressVPN to work with some gaming consoles (Xbox, PlayStation, and Nintendo Switch) and TVs (Apple TV, Roku, etc.) that do not support its app, although you may need to install the VPN directly on your router to do so.
Review: ExpressVPN: Is it worth the price? ExpressVPN has an expansive network with servers in 105 countries, which has recently been expanded. It also delivers a speedy and consistent connection.
The company doesn't log your browsing history, IP address, or traffic destination, but it does collect information about the amount of data transferred, the dates you connected to the VPN (not times), and the location of the VPN server. ExpressVPN has also recently introduced an ad blocker and adult content filter option.
One thing to note, however, is that you'll need to set aside some time if, after 30 days, you don't want to continue and want to cancel. While customer service is friendly and polite, they persist in customer retention.
At the time of writing, subscription costs begin at $6.67 per month on a 12-month plan, $9.99 per month for six months, or $12.95 for a month of access. If you pick the annual plan, you will be given three months of additional access, for free.
View now at ExpressVPN Surfshark VPN Best value VPN June Wan/ZDNET Pros & Cons Unlimited simultaneous connections Wide range of useful features Available on all major platforms Expensive for month-by-month users More Details Surfshark VPN f eatures: Simultaneous Connections : Unlimited | Kill Switch: Yes | Platforms: Windows, MacOS, Linux, iOS, Android, Fire TV, Firefox, Android TV | Logging: None, except billing data | Countries : 100 | Servers : 3,200+ | Trial/MBG: 30 day We didn't find any data leaks in our Surfshark VPN review and testing -- which is precisely what you want to see from a quality VPN. With AES-256-GCM, Perfect Forward Secrecy, and RSA-2048 encryption, Surfshark also makes security a priority.
We appreciated its complementary and inexpensive add-on features, such as anti-tracking, a search engine that doesn't log your information, and a scanner that searches data breach lists for your email. You can also connect through two VPN servers with Surfshark's multi-hop option. Furthermore, Surfshark operates a live warrant canary.
Surfshark's pricing is $15.45 per month, but the cheapest option, a two-year subscription called Surfshark Starter, will only cost you $2.21 per month. Plus, three months of free access are thrown in. If you select the mid-tier plan, Surfshark One, you will pay $2.73/month and will be granted four months for free. Finally, a two-year subscription to the highest tier, Surfshark One+ ($4.11/month), awards you five months of free access.
Alternatively, you can sign up for one year and you will pay $3.99 per month. If you want additional identity and privacy protection -- such as email breach alerts and the option to generate IDs on untrusted websites -- the mid-range one-year subscription, Surfshark One, is currently $4.09.
Also: NordVPN vs Surfshark: Which is better? View now at Surfshark Private Internet Access Best VPN for long-term contracts June Wan/ZDNET Pros & Cons Open source Affordable Solid performance Uploads speeds can be slower than others More Details Private Internet Access VPN f eatures: Simultaneous Connections : Unlimited | Kill Switch: Yes | Platforms: Windows, MacOS, iOS, Android, Linux, smart TVs, gaming consoles | Logging: No-logs policy | Locations: 91 | Trial/MBG: 30 days Private Internet Access is an excellent option if you need a long-term VPN and support for multiple devices, as the service was upgraded to offer unlimited simultaneous connections earlier this year.
PIA offers great security, too, being an open-source option. In other words, much of the VPN's code can be examined and audited publicly, promoting transparency (a feature you always want when trusting your security to a third-party vendor). There is also a strict no-logs policy for further privacy.
A free email breach monitor is included, and other features we like are the handy "snooze" button if you need to temporarily turn off the VPN and a tab displaying security elements, including port connections, protocols, and data encryption standards in use. One downside, however, is that some upload speeds are low in faraway servers.
Review: Private Internet Access review: A cheap, powerful, open-source VPN Private Internet Access has a range of plans, including a three-year subscription for $1.98/month. If you want to try out the VPN for a shorter time period, you can sign up for $3.33 per year -- or you can spend $11.95 for a month of access. The best deal on offer is the three-year subscription as you are also given four months of access for free, tacked on to the end of the contract.
View now at PIA NordVPN Best VPN for travel June Wan/ZDNET Pros & Cons Stable connection speeds Safe Extensive server network Only six simultaneous connections Expensive More Details NordVPN f eatures: Simultaneous Connections : Six | Kill Switch: Yes | Platforms: Windows, MacOS, iOS, Android, Linux, Android TV, Chrome, Firefox | Logging: None, except billing data | Countries: 60 | Servers: 5000+ | Trial/MBG: 30 day NordVPN is one of the most widely used consumer VPNs available. For most users, it checks all the boxes. It's secure, good for streaming , and has all the features you'll likely need. We've found it to be one of the fastest VPNs with the most consistent speeds and rapid connectivity.
NordVPN offers many features beyond the basics, including support for P2P sharing and an option for a second layer of encryption through what it calls Double VPN. You can set up a dedicated IP address to run a VPN that doubles as a server.
Review: NordVPN: Consistent speed and performance NordVPN can run on all of the major platforms and a number of home-network platforms. The company also launched Meshnet in 2022, a feature for users to connect directly to other devices instead of routing their traffic through a VPN server.
It is worth noting, however, that the user interface has room for improvement, which, on the macOS platform in particular, is somewhat clunky compared to other top VPN providers. Additionally, the subscription cost is on the pricier end. You can select between Complete, Plus, and Standard on a two-year, one-year, or monthly plan, the difference being whether or not you also want access to a password manager, data breach scanner, and encrypted cloud storage service.
Prices start from $2.99 per month on a Standard two-year plan to $14.99 per month on a Complete one-month subscription. Still, it's a strong choice, and you can always try it for 30 days and get a full refund. At the time of writing, One-year and two-year plans are currently discounted, and three months of free access has been added to two-year subscriptions.
Also: ExpressVPN vs. Surfshark vs. NordVPN: Which is best? View now at NordVPN Proton VPN Best open-source VPN June Wan/ZDNET Pros & Cons Privacy-conscious Many add-ons available Modern, clean interface Limited free plan More Details Proton VPN f eatures: Simultaneous Connections : Up to 10, depending on the plan | Kill Switch: Yes | Platforms: Windows, MacOS, iOS, Android, Linux, routers, Android TV | Logging: None, except billing data | Countries: 69 | Servers: 2,600+ | Trial/MBG: 30 day or free plan Proton is a Swiss company created by engineers and scientists focused on creating encrypted email and VPN communications to protect the communication of activists and journalists.
In terms of product, Proton VPN has a belt-and-suspenders approach to security, layering strong protocols on top of perfect forward secrecy on top of strong encryption. Not only does Proton VPN have a kill switch, but it also has an always-on VPN, which attempts to restore VPN service if it's dropped mid-communication. All apps are open source, and the company reports that they are independently audited.
Review: Proton VPN: A very solid VPN with robust leak protection The company offers a generous free VPN service, allowing one machine to connect at medium speed and without bandwidth limits, providing access to over 100 servers across three countries.
Proton VPN is $4.99 per month on a two-year plan -- rising to $9.99 for a monthly subscription, or you can also try out the software for one year at $5.99 monthly.
View now at ProtonVPN What is the best VPN? The best VPN is ExpressVPN, thanks to its wide platform availability, great performance, reliability, and server locations in 94 countries.
However, there are many VPN options on the market that are worth your time -- and, potentially, your dollar, should you choose to subscribe to them. When you consider which VPN to choose, keep in mind that the longer subscription you choose, the cheaper the VPN will be.
Best VPN service Price Kill switch Countries Simultaneous connections ExpressVPN $6.67 per month with 1-year plan Yes 105 Eight NordVPN $3.79 per month with 2-year plan Yes 60 Six Surfshark VPN $2.21 per month with 2-year plan Yes 100 Unlimited Private Internet Access $1.98 per month with 3-year plan Yes 91 Unlimited Proton VPN $4.99 per month with 2-year plan Yes 69 1-10, varies by plan How did we test the best VPNs? We ran a series of tests in October 2023 on each VPN's paid service to see how they compared.
The tests were performed with a broadband connection in the UK with an average starting speed, without a VPN, of 58.32Mbps download and 18.8 Mbps upload. (Yes, they are terrible, but they are the best the UK currently offers where I live.) The following speeds are in Mbps. We also tested for the presence of DNS leaks.
Please keep in mind that results may be different for you and vary from country to country, so the below should be considered a snapshot. They may also be impacted by your ISP provider and broadband subscription. For example, the starting speed is a snail's pace compared to some US offerings.
The below results are not the exact speeds you should expect. You can instead use these results for a general idea of how your speeds could change with a VPN enabled. You should also remember that the further away the VPN server, the more your speed may be impacted. Speeds will typically be quicker when you connect to a local server, compared to selecting Australia, for example.
Best VPN Quick connect UK US Germany Australia ExpressVPN 54.8 DL | 17.3 UP 53.3 DL | 17.1 UP 54 DL | 14 UP 50.6 DL | 16.1 UP 31.4DL | 9.2 UP NordVPN 53.5 DL | 16.6 UP 53.6 DL | 16.4 UP 54.4 DL | 15.1 UP 52.9 DL | 16.4 UP 33 DL | 7.1UP Surfshark 52.3 DL | 16.2 UP 52 DL | 16.9 UP 50.1 DL | 13 UP 49.1 DL | 15 UP 29.5 DL | 4.8 UP PIA 51.6 DL | 12.91 UP 50.9 DL | 13.3 UP 42.2 DL | 9.9 UP 40 DL | 11 UP 22.4 DL | 3.3 UP Proton VPN 48.7 DL | 14.7 UP 46.6 DL | 15.8 UP 32.7 DL | 12.5 UP 34.4 DL | 12.1 UP 17.8 DL | 8.4 UP VPN DNS leak detected? ExpressVPN X Surfshark X Private Internet Access X NordVPN X ProtonVPN X Which is the right VPN for you? We have written about how VPNs work and how to find the best VPN service for you.
 Regarding our top recommendations, depending on what is most important for you, these are the VPNs we believe would suit your needs best: Choose this top VPN service...
If you want...
ExpressVPN A robust server network and use of use. ExpressVPN is a service I have used for years, and I find it invaluable on a daily basis. You can expect multi-platform support and relatively minor speed downgrades when you are streaming, as well as few connection errors.
Surfshark VPN The least expensive top VPN. Surfshark is a consistent player in our top VPN lists, and for good reason. It might not always be the fastest, but for the price point, you can't argue against its value for money.
Private Internet Access Unlimited simultaneous connections. Private Internet Access is a great choice if you want a set-and-forget, affordable VPN able to support and protect as many devices as you like.
NordVPN Consistent speeds. NordVPN doesn't have a great user interface, in my opinion, but it remains one of the most consistently fast and stable connection providers. It's great for streaming, too, but the price point might put you off, though.
Proton VPN A variety of add-on features and the comfort of open-source security. Proton VPN also offers a free plan and is one of the most privacy-focused VPN services out there.
How did we choose these VPN services? We tested and analyzed the best VPNs for 2023 using the following criteria to help you make an informed decision: Performance: We tested most of the VPNs on this list to ensure robust performance in terms of connection and speed. After all, there's no point in using a VPN if your connection continually drops or lags, making it intolerable.
Simultaneous connections : Many VPNs limit how many devices you can connect to a service at the same time. If you have a phone, tablet, laptop, desktop, and possibly even a smart TV you want to connect to a VPN, you'd need a service that allows at least 5 simultaneous connections.
Security : There's no point using a VPN unless their security protocols and encryption levels are up to scratch. We also ensured that the development team behind each recommended VPN cares about making security improvements over time and patching reported bugs.
Kill switch : A kill switch prevents you from having an unprotected connection and is an important feature for a VPN to have, as it protects by preventing a return to a default Wi-Fi connection should your internet connection unexpectedly drop.
Geoblocks and streaming : We know that VPNs can be key to accessing local content and services while you're away from home. We ensured that our top recommendations perform well when it comes to these factors and are unlikely to slow down your connection while you are streaming.
Platforms : What systems and devices can you run the VPN on? Our recommended vendors must provide easy-to-use and intuitive desktop software and mobile apps.
Countries & servers : In how many different countries does the VPN have servers? This can include physical and virtual servers, and whether or not there are enough -- at least 50 or so -- to provide variety.
Trial length & price : Each VPN we recommend has a solid money-back guarantee.
How to choose a VPN service Here are four tips to help you evaluate a VPN service for yourself.
1. Pay attention to trial period times and use them: Every VPN performs differently, and every user experience is going to be different. Your ISP will offer different speeds than ours. Your favorite coffee shop has a different network connection than our local haunts. You're even likely to be connecting to different countries and definitely different sites. Before committing to a VPN provider, test candidates thoroughly in your real-world environment. That's what money-back guarantees are for, and most VPN providers will give you up to 30 days to try out their software.
2. Avoid free VPN providers: Running a VPN is expensive, and if the VPN provider doesn't make money from your service fees, they're going to make money from your data -- sometimes even by selling your personal information. Stick with the trusted commercial vendors we've tested. There are also cases where 'free' VPNs undermine what the software is meant to stand for -- data protection and security. You may instead be downloading a product that will compromise your privacy. The only exception, at present, that we recommend is Proton VPN.
3. Don't worry about the country of jurisdiction unless: There are generally two classes of VPN users: Those who need to protect their coffee shop surfing and those counting on a VPN to protect their lives. As shown by ZDNET author David Gewirtz in his article , many countries outside of the Five Eyes alliance are Mutual Legal Assistance Treaties signatories. This means many countries will share data with the US and other countries anyway. If you're using a VPN to provide true protection, we recommend researching this more.
4. Finally, don't sweat warrant canaries and no log policies: Most of you are going to use a VPN to protect your data stream from being hijacked by someone sharing your network. All of these big legal and jurisdictional issues get in the way of the simple fact that you want fast transfers and an encrypted tunnel from your spot in the airport to the website you're trying to access.
What is a VPN? VPN is an acronym for virtual private network.
 These services allow users to browse the internet privately and securely connect to open or public Wi-Fi networks. VPNs allow users to change their virtual location by redirecting the connection through one of its servers located around the world. A VPN will also encrypt all of your traffic, so you're hidden from hackers, your internet service provider, and governments.
However, if your online activities are being monitored at the ISP level -- say, by a government -- they may recognize the signature of a VPN in play, even if exactly what you are doing is hidden.
VPNs are useful in unblocking geo-restricted content and can be a vital tool for accessing information in countries with repressive governments. They are important services for anyone who wants to maintain a high level of safety and privacy online. However, because they are anonymous (or at least should be) they can also be used to hide illegal online activities such as pirating content.
How can I tell if my VPN is working or not? A fully functional VPN should protect your privacy and mask your location and IP address. If you're unsure if your VPN is working properly, there are tools that make checking your VPN's performance easy.
You can find out your IP address and location using whatismyipaddress.com.
 Just compare the IP address and location when you're connected with a VPN vs. without a VPN. If they are different, then your VPN is doing its job.
It's also possible that your VPN is leaking your data and potentially exposing your online activity. To ensure your VPN doesn't have any issues with DNS leaks or IP leaks, you can run tests on a site like DNS Leak Test.
 There are plenty of tools that allow you to test for leaks, but many are owned by VPN providers and it may not always be clear who developed the tool, which could be a conflict of interest. You may want to run tests with several different sites and compare the results.
Do I need a VPN if I'm traveling or using a Wi-Fi hotspot? If you're traveling or using the internet in a public place like a coffee shop, that data encryption is critical, since most public Wi-Fi hotspots are open and unencrypted -- which means anyone on the network can see what you send and may be able to eavesdrop on your activities and steal passwords.
Native VPN support on Mac If you're connecting to an existing corporate virtual private network, you may not need an additional service. MacOS comes with native VPN support built right in.
Apple provides VPN support on recent OS versions. Head over to System Settings, the Network tab, and either import the configuration file you were provided or hit the plus button and add a VPN interface. Here's a handy tip sheet from Apple that will walk you through the process.
Native VPN support on Windows If you're connecting to an established corporate VPN, all you need to do is add a new Windows VPN connection. Point your mouse at the Start menu, type settings, then select Settings, Network & Internet, VPN, then Add VPN. Make sure you have the connection details provided by work and then click on Add a New VPN Connection. Fill in the form and you're good to go. Here's a handy tip sheet from Microsoft.
Windows also allows you to host a VPN server by creating a new incoming network connection, choosing the users who can connect, and telling Windows that the incoming connection is across the internet. You'll also have to configure your router to allow traffic to your computer.
Native VPN support on Chromebook Sadly, this simple solution isn't built into the standard Chrome browser. If you're just using the browser on a Mac or Windows machine, you'll need a different solution.
That said, if you're rocking a Chromebook, all you need to do is open Settings and then Network. Click Add Connection. Then all you need to do is choose between OpenVPN and L2TP over IPSec.
Google has a handy cheat sheet to guide you through the process.
Linux with WireGuard WireGuard is Linux's baked-in VPN capability. Its code is relatively simple and small, making it far easier to maintain, test, and debug.
So what do you need to set up WireGuard? Most VPNs we spotlighted support WireGuard right out of the box. You can download it for Linux. But you can also download a package for Windows, Mac, iOS, Android, and FreeBSD. It's like most open-source products, in that you'll need to do some reading and thinking to make it work.
What's the best free VPN service? We've highlighted paid services in this article, although some offer a free tier or a money-back guarantee during a trial period (check out our picks for the best VPN free trials ). In general, fully free VPN services aren't recommended because they may not be secure.
Operating a good VPN service requires hundreds of servers worldwide and a ton of networking resources. If you're not paying to support that infrastructure, who is? Probably advertisers or data miners. If you use a free service, your data or your eyeballs will probably be sold, and that's never a good thing. After all, you're using a VPN to ensure your data is kept secure. You wouldn't want your data to go to some company to sift through -- it completely defeats the purpose of a VPN.
Before you choose a VPN service, free or paid, it's important to know that no one tool can guarantee your privacy. First, anything can be compromised. But more to the point, a VPN protects your data from your computer to the VPN service. It doesn't protect what you put on servers. It doesn't protect your data from the VPN provider's VPN servers to whatever site or cloud-based application you use. It doesn't offer good passwords or multi-factor authentication. Privacy and security require you to be diligent throughout your digital journey, and VPNs, while quite helpful, are not a miracle cure.
Should you use a VPN on your phone or tablet? If it's your data and you want it to be secure, yes. The same choices are valid regardless of what kind of device you use to transmit and receive data over the Internet.
Is it legal to use a VPN? Yes, in most countries, including the US, the UK, and the majority of Europe. Some countries, however, have made VPN use illegal, or they are severely discouraged and limited to state-approved software.
At the moment, countries including North Korea, Iraq, and Belarus have reportedly banned the use of VPNs entirely. As noted in NordVPN's country guide , others -- like China, Russia, and Egypt -- discourage VPN use and try to stop new adoption by demonizing VPNs as software widely used for criminal activity.
Workarounds do exist , but they may come with risks.
Do VPN providers limit usage? Some do. Check when you sign up. For non-free plans, none of the providers we recommended limit the amount of data you can use. But almost all limit how many devices you can use at once.
As a general rule of thumb, free or trial offerings tend to restrict usage, speed, or the number of devices you can connect to the VPN, with access and speed increased for paying customers.
What does logging mean? Logging is the recording of data about your usage, and it occurs everywhere. Every website, at minimum, records an IP address, time, and data accessed so they can track traffic. All VPN providers have to check credentials against recorded personal data to make sure you paid, but a few let you sign up with Bitcoin, allowing you to completely hide your identity.
When we say a VPN doesn't log data, we mean they don't track what sites you visit and for how long, but they may track how much of their infrastructure you use.
What is a kill switch? So let's say you're surfing along and suddenly your VPN connection fails. Your phone or computer is likely to immediately try to reconnect and do so directly without going through a VPN. All of a sudden, your data is unprotected.
A kill switch is a feature in your device's VPN app that detects when a connection fails and immediately shuts down network access. Like with everything, it's not a 100% perfect solution, but these days, we wouldn't recommend using a VPN that doesn't offer a kill switch.
What do simultaneous connections mean and why should you care? When you have multiple devices -- such as a tablet, laptop, and smartphone -- and you are using these devices for different tasks, you still want to keep your data and connections secure on each machine.
When you have enabled the VPN on more than one device at the same time, this means you are using simultaneous connections. It's always best to have this feature in a VPN to ensure your privacy isn't accidentally compromised through one device or another.
Does a VPN slow down your connection? Using a VPN can often slow down your connection. That's because your data is encrypted, decrypted, and sent through intermediate servers. Game responsiveness might suffer, for example, or you may notice your streaming service doesn't load as fast as usual.
However, with many high-quality VPNs now available, the negative impact is often unnoticeable, unless there is a problem with the VPN server you connect to. To fix this, try out a server in a different location and see if that improves your connection.
What about all those weird protocol words? If you've been shopping for a VPN service, you've undoubtedly come across a bunch of names like SSL, OpenVPN, SSTP, L2TP/IPSec, PPP, PPTP, IKEv2/IPSec, SOCKS5, and more. These are all communication protocols. They are, essentially, the name of the method by which your communication is encrypted and packaged for tunneling to the VPN provider.
To be honest, while VPN geeks can argue over protocols for hours, it's probably good enough to use the default setup from your provider.
Are there alternative VPN services worth considering? If ZDNET's top recommendations do not appeal to you, there are a number of alternative VPN providers you can consider. We've also found numerous VPNs with other attractive features, such as fixed pricing models.
Best alternative for configurability IPVanish - From $2.99/month A highly customizable VPN with attractive mobile apps.
View at IPVanish Best alternative for fixed pricing VyprVPN - $5 per month for 12 months A publicly audited VPN service with a no-log policy and fixed pricing.
View at VyprVPN Best alternative for affordability Atlas VPN - Only $1.70 monthly Atlas VPN is a great alternative for cheap, long-term plans. Six months of free access are available to new customers on two-year plans.
View at Atlasvpn Best alternative for transparency Mullvad VPN - A fixed pricing model Prices fixed at $5 per month and open source to promote transparency and security.
View at Mullvad ZDNET Recommends The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you) The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick) The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money) Editorial standards Show Comments Community Guidelines Related The best travel VPNs, tested and reviewed The best VPNs for iPhone and iPad you can buy The best VPN for streaming: Unblock your favorite shows and sports now ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
