X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Home & Office Why you can trust ZDNET : ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Our process 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
Home Home & Office I've tested a lot of AA and AAA batteries, and these are my favorites Written by Adrian Kingsley-Hughes, Contributing Writer Nov. 15, 2023 at 11:25 a.m. PT Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET I'm a big fan of rechargeable batteries, and that extends to the AA and AAA batteries found in myriad devices found around the home. I don't want to be throwing used batteries into the recycling bin, and I can save a whole bunch of money by buying a good quality NiMH rechargeable batteries and charger.
But there are times when only disposable batteries will do.
Also: The 10 best early Black Friday 2023 portable power station deals Rechargeable batteries, you see, have a downside: As soon as you remove the battery from its charger, the battery slowly starts to discharge. Give it several months to a year, and your fully charged battery will be quite depleted.
This is not a problem in most applications, because you rarely need to keep rechargeable batteries on charge for extended periods of time. But if you do need backups, then rechargeable AA and AAA batteries aren't a good choice.
4x Energizer Ultimate Lithium AA Batteries Energizer/ZDNET These tick all the boxes for me: 20-year shelf life Designed to perform in extreme temperatures, from -40°F to 140°F Leak-proof construction 33% lighter than alkaline batteries (AA/AAA) Last up to seven times longer than alkaline batteries View now at Walmart View now at Amazon Another problem is the cold.
Cold weather zaps rechargeable batteries. Again, not a big problem if you're using them to power a TV remote or a computer mouse in your living room or bedroom; but if you're taking them outdoors, or using them in a cold workshop or garage, this can be a big problem.
So what's the solution if you want batteries that have a long shelf life and can withstand cold temperatures? You need lithium batteries. And after testing a whole bunch of them over the years, the ones I've settled on are Energizer Ultimate Lithium batteries.
I have a few of these as backups for mission-critical stuff (such as my Petzl Tactikka+ headlamp , which normally runs off a bespoke rechargeable battery , but I carry three Energizer Ultimate Lithium AAA batteries just in case), and they've never let me down. I have some that have been in a car, truck, backpack, or luggage for years, and they're always ready for use.
Also: The best rechargeable batteries you can buy You might be wondering what made me buy these in the first place. Yes, you guessed it: My headlamp was dying at a bad time while I was coming down from the hills from a long hike.
I usually keep these batteries in their packaging, but I also have some Thyrm CellVault battery holder tubes that are excellent for protecting these batteries from harm, especially when outdoors.
These batteries come in AA , AAA , and 9V sizes. Yes, they're pricy compared to regular alkaline and rechargeable batteries, but in an emergency, the pain of the cost evaporates.
Featured MacBook Pro (M3 Max) review: A desktop-class laptop for an AI-powered age Do you have the latest AirTag firmware update? How to check Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and more You can now turn your Amazon Echo into a Wi-Fi extender. Here's how Editorial standards Show Comments Community Guidelines Related The best rechargeable batteries you can buy These are the brightest flashlights that experts recommend Blink's Outdoor 4 Floodlight Camera is crazy bright, runs on battery, and has solid security and AI features ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
