X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Tech Why you can trust ZDNET : ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Our process 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
Home Tech Wearables Smart Watches The Apple Watch Series 9 is still just $349 for the first time in this early Black Friday deal Written by Kayla Solino, Associate Editor Nov. 17, 2023 at 8:16 a.m. PT Get the Apple Watch Series 9 for $50 off.
Jason Hiner/ZDNET Last week, the Apple Watch Series 9 saw its first price cut ahead of the holiday season. The Series 9, newly released in September, is a mere two months old, but you can still get it right now for $349, a savings of $50 (13 percent) off the latest regular price of $399. The early Black Friday deal is available at both Walmart and Amazon ; though the discount only applies to the 41mm model, it includes multiple band and color options. The larger 45mm model is also on sale , but for a higher cost of $379.
The Series 9 is ZDNET's tested pick for best Apple watch for most individuals , and Apple products don't see sales or discounts very often.
So if you've been thinking about getting yourself a new watch, or gifting this model for the holidays, now is the time to buy one of Apple's newest wearables before the upcoming Black Friday and Cyber Week extravaganza, where items may become sell-outs.
Also: Apple Watch Series 9 vs. Ultra 2 Apple Watch Series 9 for $349 (save $50) View now at Amazon Apple Watch Series 9 for $349 (save $50) View now at Walmart Also: How to pick the right Apple watch for you The Apple Watch Series 9 can track activity, steps, heart rate, respiratory rate, blood oxygen (lung function), wrist temperature, sleep, and environmental sound levels (to protect your hearing). And it uses algorithms and machine learning -- aka, AI -- to spot dangerous patterns and alert you to seek medical attention.
There are two big upgrades in the Apple Watch Series 9 compared to the previous Series 8 model. The first is a 2000-nit display that delivers double the brightness of last year's S8 and matches the brightness of last year's original Apple Watch Ultra.
The second is the new S9 SiP processor, which has a 30% faster GPU and processes machine learning twice as fast. This makes everything quicker, makes the animations smoother, and enables features like the new double-tap gesture and faster and more accurate Siri commands.
If you want the latest health sensors and safety features, great battery life (especially if you want to do sleep tracking), and you don't need the extreme features in the Ultra 2, then you can save a lot of money by going with the aluminum model of the Apple Watch Series 9, and now is a great time to snag this deal.
Check out more early Black Friday Apple Watch deals , and early Black Friday Apple deals.
Top holiday deals Best early Black Friday deals Top Black Friday robot vacuum deals Best Black Friday TV deals Top Black Friday headphones deals Editorial standards Show Comments Community Guidelines Related The 20 best early Black Friday Apple watch deals available now The 16 best early Black Friday smartwatch deals The best Apple Watches you can buy (and which are on sale for Black Friday) ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
