X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Tech Why you can trust ZDNET : ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Our process 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
Home Tech Computing Laptops The 17 best early Black Friday HP deals you can get now Written by Min Shin, Associate Editor Nov. 17, 2023 at 8:31 a.m. PT View now View at Amazon View now View at Amazon View now View at Amazon View now View at HP View now View at Best Buy The holidays are approaching quickly, and you might already have a list of purchases you want to make. There's only a week until Black Friday and then Cyber Monday will be here before you know it. You can score the best deals on HP tech products.
Also: The best early Black Friday deals From laptops to printers, and everything in between, now is your chance to choose from the biggest deals of the season. Save on these products now so that you can use them in the long run.
We've compiled a list of the best early Black Friday HP deals for you. Start looking now so that you can pick your favorite products that are currently available.
Best early Black Friday 2023 HP deals HP Victus Gaming Laptop : $640 (save $160 at Best Buy) HP 17 Laptop PC : $480 (save $71 at Amazon) HP Z2 G9 Mini Workstation : $929 (save $420 at Amazon) HP ZBook Studio : $1,585 (save $915 at Amazon) HP Smart Tank 6001 All-in-One : $230 (save $115 at HP) HP Laptop 14t-ee000 : $400 (save $350 at HP) HP 24-inch Monitor : $115 (save $91 at Walmart) HP 15.6-inch FHD Laptop : $619 (save $70 at Walmart) Omen Laptop 17t-ck200 17.3-inch : $1,200 (save $500 at HP) HP Chromebook 14 Laptop : $200 (save $90 at Amazon) HP Envy Inspire 7955e Wireless Color Inkjet Printer : $160 (save $60 at Amazon) New Slim HP 65W USB-C Charger : $20 (save $9 at Amazon) HP Envy Gaming Desktop Bundle Save $581 HP/ZDNET Current price: $1,319 Original price: $1,900 The HP Envy Gaming Desktop Bundle has 16GB of RAM, a 12th-gen Core i9 processor, and an RTX 3070 GPU. It's got plenty of ports to connect your devices and transfer your files wirelessly.
If you're looking to make a sustainable purchase, the HP Envy Desktop PC is made from materials such as ocean-bound plastic and water-based paint.
View now at Amazon HP Pavilion 15 Laptop Save $186 HP Current price: $764 Original price: $950 The HP Pavilion 15 Laptop is a great option if you're looking for a laptop to use on the go. With 512GB, 15.6-inch diagonal, and amazing graphics, this laptop is perfect for viewing your photos and videos, gaming, and entertainment.
Its average battery life is 7.45 hours, so the HP Pavilion 15 can last you for most of the day without additional charge.
View now at Amazon HP DeskJet 2755e Wireless Color Inkjet Printer Save $20 HP/ZDNET Current price: $65 Original price: $85 The HP DeskJet 2755e Wireless Color Inkjet Printer allows you to print, copy, and scan in color. You can use mobile or wireless printing on this printer as well.
The printer prints 7.5 pages per minute in black ink or 5.5 pages per minute in color ink, so you'll have your documents ready in no time. Whether you need a printer at home or in your college dorm room, the HP DeskJet 2755e Wireless Color Inkjet Printer is a great option.
View now at Amazon HP Chromebook 14 Save $120 HP/ZDNET Current price: $190 Original price: $310 Apart from the HP Chromebook 14's high-definition display, it also offers 64GB of storage and very fast battery charge -- about 50% charge within 45 minutes.
You can also play games in 720p and stream 4K content to watch your favorite shows. If you like using Chrome, you can save $120 now with the HP Chromebook 14.
View now at HP HP Envy 2-in-1 15.6-inch Full HD Touchscreen Laptop Save $400 HP/ZDNET Current price: $650 Original price: $1,050 The HP Envy 2-in-1 is suited for your daily needs, whether that be at work, school, or for entertainment.
If you're a gamer, this laptop is a budget-friendly option. With 16GB, the laptop can also handle demanding applications while delivering professional-level performance.
View now at Best Buy When is Black Friday 2023? This year, Black Friday falls on Nov. 24. Black Friday takes place the day after Thanksgiving, which is on Nov. 23. Thanksgiving always takes place on the fourth Thursday of November.
How did we choose these early Black Friday deals? ZDNET only writes about deals we want to buy -- devices and products we desire, need, or would recommend. Our experts looked for deals that were at least 20% off (or are hardly ever on sale), using established price comparison tools and trackers to determine whether the deal is actually on sale and how frequently it drops.
We also looked over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the deals we're recommending. Our recommendations may also be based on our own testing -- in addition to extensive research and comparison shopping. The goal is to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter.
What is the best HP product? ZDNET's best HP product is the HP Envy Desktop Gaming Bundle. Its powerful and speedy processor as well as its numerous ports and clear visuals allow for ease of use. In addition, the HP Palette helps you find your photos quickly.
The HP Envy Desktop Gaming Bundle is currently 28% off on Amazon, so you can save $541.
What are the best early Black Friday deals right now? ZDNET's experts have been searching for early Black Friday deals across sites like Amazon, Best Buy, Walmart, Newegg, and more. Here are the top deals by category we've found so far.
Best early Black Friday deals Best early Black Friday deals under $30 Best Black Friday deals under $100 Best early Black Friday phone deals Best early Black Friday laptop deals Best early Black Friday tablet deals Best early Black Friday TV deals Best early Black Friday smartwatch deals Best early Black Friday headphones deals Best early Black Friday monitor deals Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals Best early Black Friday VPN deals Best early Black Friday Amazon deals Best early Black Friday Apple deals Best early Black Friday Samsung deals Best early Black Friday Best Buy deals Best early Black Friday Dell deals Best early Black Friday HP deals Best early Black Friday Verizon deals Best early Black Friday Newegg deals Best early Black Friday Walmart deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals Best early Black Friday Apple Watch deals Best early Black Friday AirPods deals Best early Black Friday iPad deals Best early Black Friday security camera deals Best early Black Friday storage and SSD deals Best early Black Friday Fitbit and fitness tracker deals Best early Black Friday Kindle deals Best early Black Friday Chromebook deals Best early Black Friday streaming deals Top holiday deals Best early Black Friday deals Top Black Friday robot vacuum deals Best Black Friday TV deals Top Black Friday headphones deals Editorial standards Show Comments Community Guidelines Related The 60 best early Black Friday laptop deals: Amazon, Best Buy, Walmart, and more The 15 best early Black Friday Dell deals available now The 17 best early Black Friday deals under $30 ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
