X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Tech Why you can trust ZDNET : ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Our process 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
Home Tech Wearables Headphones The 7 best early Black Friday AirPods deals Written by Nina Raemont, Associate Editor Nov. 17, 2023 at 12:31 p.m. PT View now View at Walmart View now View at Amazon View now View at Walmart View now View at Best Buy View now View at Amazon Apple's AirPods are one of the hottest products in the headphone space -- and for good reason. The earbuds offer long-lasting battery life, noise cancellation, portability, and immediate Apple ecosystem integration. Not to mention how stylish the earbuds and headphones are. The AirPods Max has practically turned into a statement piece. Given their popularity, they're a hot commodity during the holiday shopping season-- they're probably on one of your loved one's wish lists already. But deals and discounts on Apple's AirPods don't come easy. Luckily there are a few hot deals right now, like $60 off the second generation AirPods, the lowest price the product has seen yet.
Also: The best early Black Friday deals Whether you're getting a jump start on holiday shopping early or need to replace your dying pair of earbuds with a new pair of AirPods ASAP, there are some select deals you can take advantage of right now on sites like Amazon , Walmart , and Best Buy.
 Closer to Cyber Week, more deals will surely be added by retailers and hopefully cut down the price of some of these products. ZDNET rounded up the best early AirPods Black Friday deals you can buy right now so you can ditch the long lines and madness of Cyber Week later.
The best early Black Friday 2023 AirPod deals AirPods with charging case (2nd generation) : Deal for $99 (save $30 at Walmart) AirPods Pro (2nd generation) : Deal for $199 (save $50 at Walmart) AirPods Pro (2nd generation) with USB-C case : Deal for $229 (save $20 at Amazon) AirPods Max : Deal for $450 (save $100 on Amazon) AirPods (3rd generation) : Deal for $140 (save $30 on Amazon) AirPods with charging case (2nd generation) Save $30 Jason Hiner/ZDNET Current price: $99 Original price: $129 If you're looking for a cheaper pair of earbuds that seamlessly connect to your iPhone, you can't go wrong with the second-generation AirPods with the standard lightning charging case. They may not come with as many compelling features as the newer models, but they offer 24 hours of battery life so you can listen, literally, all day long without ever having to consider recharging.
View now at Walmart AirPods Pro (2nd generation) with USB-C case Save $20 Apple/ZDNET Current price: $230 Original price: $250 In case you missed it, the newest iPhone 15 lineup includes a USB-C charger instead of Apple's signature Lightning port. That means the newest AirPods are following suit. If you want the AirPods Pro (2nd generation) with the USB-C MagSafe charging case instead of the Lightning case, it's $20 off at Amazon right now.
View now at Amazon AirPods Pro (2nd generation) Save $50 Jason Hiner/ZDNET Current price: $200 Original price: $250 This AirPods Pro model emphasizes a quick, easy, and secure fit by including not just small, medium, and large ear tips but also extra small ear tips as well, so everyone, no matter their ear size, can keep these earbuds in their ears. Apple improved upon its active noise cancellation, spatial sound quality, charging case, battery life, and adaptive transparency mode. As Christina Darby wrote in her review of the product, "The AirPods Pro (2nd generation) are a fitting encore to the originals, delivering improved audio quality, a solid upgrade to charging performance, and a big upgrade to the case." Also: AirPods Pro (2nd generation) review View now at Walmart AirPods Max Headphones Save $100 Apple/ZDNET Current price: $450 Original price: $550 If you're steering clear of earbuds and would rather opt for an over-ear headphone instead, there's no better option for you than the AirPods Max. They don't simply deliver robust sound -- they've also become a statement fashion piece of their own. Best Buy offers the headphones for $100 less than the original price. With 20 hours of battery life and impressive active noise cancellation, you're getting a great pair of headphones perfect for deep work and focus with enough of a charge to last you through a workday or two at a $100 discount.
Review: AirPods Max: Stunning sound and performance mean I'm keeping the $550 headphones View now at Best Buy AirPods (3rd generation) Save $30 Apple/ZDNET Current price: $139 Original price: $169 With up to 30 hours of battery life within the charging case and six hours of listening time with one charge, you get a supercharged battery for all-day listening with these AirPods. The third-generation AirPods offer sweat and water protection, so you can take these out on rainy runs and never worry about interruption or damage. Apple includes spatial audio into these earbuds to make your music move with you as you listen, plus you can watch or listen to select songs and movies with Dolby Atmos technology.
View now at Amazon More early AirPod Black Friday deals Refurbished AirPods (3rd generation) for $126 (save $44) View now at Best Buy Refurbished AirPods Max for $370 (save $130) View now at Best Buy When is Black Friday 2023? Black Friday is on Nov. 24 this year, and many of your favorite retailers, like Amazon , Best Buy , and Walmart , are slicing their prices on products during the day of deals. While Black Friday technically takes place on Nov. 24, many big retailers run deals throughout the month. Amazon's deals, for example, begin on Nov. 17 through Nov. 27.
Also: The best early Black Friday deals What is the best early AirPod Black Friday deal right now? The best AirPod Black Friday deal you can buy right now is the AirPods (2nd generation). It's currently $69 on Walmart, the lowest price you can get AirPods for to date.
How did we choose these early Black Friday AirPods deals? ZDNET only writes about deals we want to buy -- devices and products we desire, need, or would recommend. Our experts looked for deals that were at least 20% off (or are hardly ever on sale), using established price comparison tools and trackers to determine whether the deal is actually on sale and how frequently it drops.
We also looked over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the deals we're recommending. Our recommendations may also be based on our own testing -- in addition to extensive research and comparison shopping. The goal is to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter.
What are the best early Black Friday deals right now? ZDNET's experts have been searching for early Black Friday deals across sites like Amazon, Best Buy, Walmart, Newegg, and more. Here are the top deals by category we've found so far.
Best early Black Friday deals Best early Black Friday deals under $30 Best Black Friday deals under $100 Best early Black Friday phone deals Best early Black Friday laptop deals Best early Black Friday tablet deals Best early Black Friday TV deals Best early Black Friday smartwatch deals Best early Black Friday headphones deals Best early Black Friday monitor deals Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals Best early Black Friday VPN deals Best early Black Friday Amazon deals Best early Black Friday Apple deals Best early Black Friday Samsung deals Best early Black Friday Best Buy deals Best early Black Friday Dell deals Best early Black Friday HP deals Best early Black Friday Verizon deals Best early Black Friday Newegg deals Best early Black Friday Walmart deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals Top holiday deals Best early Black Friday deals Top Black Friday robot vacuum deals Best Black Friday TV deals Top Black Friday headphones deals Editorial standards Show Comments Community Guidelines Related The best 28 early Black Friday deals under $100 Buy AirPods for an all-time-low price of $69 right now The 22 best early Black Friday 2023 headphones deals ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
