X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Home & Office Why you can trust ZDNET : ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Our process 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
Home Home & Office The best 28 early Black Friday deals under $100 Written by Nina Raemont, Associate Editor Nov. 17, 2023 at 9:10 a.m. PT View now View at Walmart View now View at Walmart View now View at Best Buy View now View at Walmart View now View at Best Buy View now View at Amazon View now View at Amazon View now View at Best Buy View now View at Amazon We've got one more week before the Black Friday deals-a-palooza officially begins, but that doesn't mean there aren't already deals you can snag right now. That's right. On sites like Amazon where the sales have already started, Best Buy, and Walmart you can find great deals on some essential tech, like $69 AirPods (the lowest price on the earbuds yet) and start your shopping early.
We rounded up our favorite deals under $100 that are available right now, ahead of Black Friday and Cyber Monday. Considering hot ticket items (anything from Apple), streaming devices, and, not to mention, a handful of below-$100 TVs, we included the creme de la creme of under $100 deals you can buy today. Why wait until Black Friday? Ahead of the shopping holiday, we will update these lists to include the hottest and latest deals.
Best early Black Friday deals under $100 Apple AirPods (Second Generation) : $99 (save $30 at Walmart) Ring Video Doorbell 1080p: $55 (save $45 at Amazon) Insignia 24-inch Class F20 Series Smart TV: $65 (save $55 at Amazon) Insignia 32-Inch Class F20 Series Smart TV: $80 (save $70 at Best Buy) Insignia 32-Inch Class N10 Series LED HD TV : $80 (save $20 at Best Buy) Keurig K-Compact Single-Serve K-Cup Pod Coffee Maker : $50 (save $50 at Amazon) Bella Pro Series Digital Air Fryer : $70 (save $110 at Best Buy) Apple Pencil (first generation) : $89 (save $10 at Walmart) Windows 11 Pro : $25 (save $175 at Stack Social) Costco membership : $60 (get a $40 gift card free at Stack Social) Echo Dot (Fifth Generation) : $23 (save $50 at Amazon) Apple AirPods (Second Gen) Save $30 Apple/ZDNET Current price: $99 Original price: $130 If you've been contemplating a new pair of earbuds, now is your chance to buy a great pair at an affordable price. These best-selling second-generation Apple AirPods are on sale at Walmart for just $69, the lowest price drop these earbuds have seen. Anyone in the Apple ecosystem could appreciate these lightweight, portable buds for on-the-go music- and podcast-listening sessions.
View now at Walmart Apple Pencil Save $10 Apple/ZDNET Current price: $89 Original price: $99 If you want more out of your iPad through drawing, annotating readings, or note-taking functions. Now is the best time to snag an Apple Pencil. You can save $10 on this first generation Apple Pencil on Walmart.
View now at Walmart Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K Save $25 Amazon/ZDNET Current price: $25 Original price: $50 Stream all your favorite content in 4K Ultra HD with this Amazon Fire TV stick. The streaming device supports Dolby Vision, HDR10+, and Dolby Atmos audio for a full-on cinematic viewing experience. With access to all the top streaming services, like Netflix, Prime Video, Disney+, Max, and more, and Wi-Fi 6 for smooth connectivity, you'll get a theater experience from the comfort of your couch.
View now at Best Buy Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 Save $60 Samsung/ZDNET Current price: $99 Original price: $159 With a large screen size of 42mm, a long battery life of 40 hours, and a stylish and sleek fit, this Samsung Galaxy Watch promises insight into your sleep, an ECG monitor for heart health, and workout tracking for accurate health data you can use. The watch is water-resistant, so you can workout with it on your wrist rain or shine. Most health wearables are clunky and stick out on a wrist, but we like this Galaxy Watch 4 for its discreet and classic watch look. Any Android user could appreciate this unassuming but data-aggregating health wearable.
View now at Walmart Hover 1 Blast Electric Self-Balancing Scooter Save $30 Hover 1/ZDNET Current price: $90 Original price: $120 Gift the scooting rascal in your life this hovering, self-balancing scooter that can go as fast as 7 miles per hour. The Hover 1 Blast Electric Self-Balancing Scooter is 25% off on Best Buy right now, so you can get your little one this fun outdoor scooter for less.
View now at Best Buy Keurig K-Compact Single-Serve K-Cup Pod Coffee Maker Save $50 Keurig/ZDNET Current: $50 Original: $100 Ready to ditch that 10-year-old coffee pot? This Keurig makes individual cups of coffee in 6, 8, or 10 oz. sizes. The coffee machine offers a simpler and quicker way to brew a cup of joe, with brew time just under a minute. If you buy the machine from Amazon right now, you'll save $50. Use the money you'll conserve to buy some high-end K cups or fancy coffee creamer.
View now at Amazon Amazon Fire HD 10 Tablet Save $60 Amazon/ZDNET Current price: $80 Original price: $140 Looking for a tablet that can stream your favorite shows and movies, manage your email inbox, or take video calls, but you don't want to shell out hundreds on an iPad? Consider the Amazon Fire HD 10 Tablet instead, that's $65 off its asking price right now at Best Buy.
View now at Amazon Insignia 32-Inch Class F20 Series Smart TV Save $70 Insignia/ZDNET Current price: $80 Original price: $150 Sick of watching your favorite movies on that small laptop of yours? It's time you invest in a TV to get the most out of your favorite films and shows. And with this sub-$100 deal, you won't even have to shell out the big bucks to get a nicely sized screen. That means there's no excuse not to buy this $80 Insignia Fire TV.
View now at Best Buy Anker 120W USB-C Charger Save $10 Anker/ZDNET Current price: $80 Original price: $90 ZDNET loves Anker for its reliable charging devices. Though we can't say we've tested out the 120W USB-C charger for ourselves, because of the 30% off deal that it has on its charger, we'd be remiss not to add it to this list.
View now at Amazon More early Black Friday deals JBL Endurance Peak earbuds for $70 (save $30) View now at Amazon Fujifilm Instax Square SQ6 for $90 (save $40) $89.99 at Amazon HP DeskJet 3772 All-in-One Wireless Color Printer for $49 (save $45) View now at Walmart Skullcandy Barrel Party Speaker for $79 (save $90) View now at Walmart CRUA Curved Gaming Monitor for $99 (save $70) View now at Walmart Bella Pro Series Digital Air Fryer for $70 (save $110) View now at Best Buy Echo Show 8 (Second Generation) for $50 (save $80) View now at Amazon Fitbit Luxe for $100 (save $30) View now at Amazon When is Black Friday 2023? Black Friday is on Nov. 24 this year, and many of your favorite retailers, like Amazon, Best Buy, Target, and Walmart are slicing their prices on products during the day of deals. While Black Friday technically takes place on Nov. 24, many big retailers run deals throughout the month. Amazon's deals start early, on November 17, for example.
How did we choose these early Black Friday deals? ZDNET only writes about deals we want to buy -- devices and products we desire, need, or would recommend. Our experts looked for deals that were at least 20% off (or are hardly ever on sale), using established price comparison tools and trackers to determine whether the deal is actually on sale and how frequently it drops.
We also looked over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the deals we're recommending. Our recommendations may also be based on our own testing -- in addition to extensive research and comparison shopping. The goal is to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter.
What is the best early Black Friday deal under $100? This whole list of deals is great, but if we had to choose one under-$100 product you should definitely grab ahead of Black Friday, it would be the Apple AirPods for $100 right now. Given their popularity and portability, they're a great earbud for listening to music while exercising, on-the-go calls and video meetings, and Apple connectivity.
What are the best early Black Friday deals right now? ZDNET's experts have been searching for early Black Friday deals across sites like Amazon, Best Buy, Walmart, Newegg, and more. Here are the top deals by category we've found so far.
Best early Black Friday deals Best early Black Friday deals under $30 Best Black Friday deals under $100 Best early Black Friday phone deals Best early Black Friday laptop deals Best early Black Friday tablet deals Best early Black Friday TV deals Best early Black Friday smartwatch deals Best early Black Friday headphones deals Best early Black Friday monitor deals Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals Best early Black Friday VPN deals Best early Black Friday Amazon deals Best early Black Friday Apple deals Best early Black Friday Samsung deals Best early Black Friday Best Buy deals Best early Black Friday Dell deals Best early Black Friday HP deals Best early Black Friday Verizon deals Best early Black Friday Newegg deals Best early Black Friday Walmart deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals Best early Black Friday Apple Watch deals Best early Black Friday AirPods deals Best early Black Friday iPad deals Best early Black Friday security camera deals Best early Black Friday storage and SSD deals Best early Black Friday Fitbit and fitness tracker deals Best early Black Friday Kindle deals Best early Black Friday Chromebook deals Best early Black Friday streaming deals Top holiday deals Best early Black Friday deals Top Black Friday robot vacuum deals Best Black Friday TV deals Top Black Friday headphones deals Editorial standards Show Comments Community Guidelines Related The 7 best early Black Friday AirPods deals The 22 best early Black Friday 2023 headphones deals Buy AirPods for an all-time-low price of $69 right now ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
