X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Home & Office Why you can trust ZDNET : ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Our process 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
Home Home & Office The 26 best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals Written by Elizabeth Mauder, Video Producer Nov. 17, 2023 at 9:06 a.m. PT View now View at Us.roborock View now View at Amazon View now View at Amazon View now View at Amazon View now View at Walmart View now View at Amazon View now View at Amazon Robot vacuums have become more intelligent and more affordable -- especially when you can take advantage of early Black Friday sales. With the holiday shopping season less than a week away, now is a great time to either buy your first robot vacuum, upgrade your older model, or give one to someone you love. Whether you're looking for a robot vacuum , a robot vacuum and mop combo , or a robot mop , we have you covered.
Also: The best early Black Friday deals Of course, deciding which robot vacuum best fits your needs can be tricky, but we've spent a lot of time going hands-on with all sorts of different robot vacuums. We've included a variety of price points to help you get everyone on your shopping list the robot vacuum they need.
Best early Black Friday 2023 robot vacuum deals iRobot Roomba s9+ : $600 (save $400) OKP K4 Robot Vacuum: $140 (save $190) Shark IQ Robot Vacuum AV970: $220 (save $180) Ecovacs Deebot T20 Omni: $800 (save $300) Roborock S7 Max Ultra $950 (save $350) Roborock Q7 Max+ $500 (save $370) Roborock S7 $360 (save $290) MAMNV Robot Vacuum and Mop $179 (save $521) Roborock Q7 Max $330 (save $270) Ecovacs Deebot N10 Plus $400 (save $250) Roborock S8+ $800 (save $200) Bissell SpinWave $160 (save $240) Roborock S8 $600 (save $150) Roomba 694 $160 (save $115) Lefant Robot Vacuum Cleaner $100 (save $100) Vactidy T6 $95 (save $65) Shark AV753 ION $130 (save $100) iRobot Roomba Combo i5+ $349 (save $131) Roborock Q5 $260 (save $170) Roborock S7 Max Ultra Save $350 Matt Miller/ZDNET Current price: $950 Original price: $1300 This holiday season, Roborock is offering steep discounts across several of their top robot vacuums and robot vacuum and mops. One of our favorites, the Roborock S7 Max Ultra, is currently sitting at $950, making this the perfect time to invest in a high-end machine. With 5,500Pa suction power, the Roborock S7 Max Ultra will keep all of your flooring surfaces free of dirt, debris, and pet hair. Couple that with Roborock's VibraRise Mopping system and your floors will be easily vacuumed and mopped all in one go.
This robot's docking station is one that does all of the dirty work for you. Simply fill the clean water tank, empty the dirty water tank, and send your robot out with a few taps in the Roborock app and you won't have to lift a finger again. The Auto Mop Lifting technology ensures that none of your soft flooring surfaces, carpets and rugs alike, will get wet during the job.
Also: The best Roborock robot vacuums and mops you can buy View now at Us.roborock Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni Save $350 Beth Mauder/ZDNET Current price: $600 Original price: $950 This two-in-one machine is one of my favorite robot vacuum and mops on the market right now, and this sale price makes it that much sweeter. The Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni has dual, oscillating mop heads that vibrate 180 times per minute. You combine that with its 5,000Pa suction and your floors are going to feel spectacular underneath your feet. One of my favorite parts about this machine is that you can set the robot to return periodically to the base station to have its mop heads cleaned, choosing between every 6, 10, or 15 minutes.
One of the only faults this machine has is that you have to manually remove the mop heads if you want your carpets or rugs cleaned. This means the T10 Omni isn't able to lift its mop heads automatically, but if you don't have many rugs or carpet then this won't be a big deal to you. Personally, I have several rooms with carpets and rugs but I loved this robot enough the manual intervention is worth it.
Review: This robot vacuum mop combo has a brilliant self-cleaning feature I didn't know I needed View now at Amazon Roomba s9+ Save $400 Beth Mauder/ZDNET Current price: $600 Original price: $1000 If you're on the hunt for a reputable, capable robot vacuum, look no further than iRobot's Roomba s9+. One of Roomba's most powerful devices is known for its "D" shaped design, making it easy to fit in all corners of your home. The slim Clean Base fits neatly into your home and is one of our favorite parts of Roomba devices. The Clean Base allows the s9+ to automatically empty itself as many times as necessary during a job. Going up against a German Shepherd, German Shorthaired Pointer, a cat, and a child, the s9+ needed to self-empty several times each job to keep my house nice and tidy.
The Roomba s9+'s intelligent navigation avoids cords, shoes, pet waste, and other common household objects, making this a machine you can leave to run while you're at work. The s9+ is so smart you can pair it with Alexa, Siri, or Google Assistant-enabled devices to simply say a command for a cleaning job to begin.
Also: The best iRobot vacuums you can buy View now at Amazon Eufy Clean X9 Pro Save $100 with coupon Maria Diaz/ZDNET Current price: $800 Original price: $900 The Eufy Clean X9 Pro is a two-in-one machine that utilizes 5,500Pa suction power and dual oscillating mop heads to tackle all of your flooring needs. Thanks to the robot's AI See camera set, it can detect when it encounters carpet or rugs and automatically lifts the mop heads to keep your soft floors from getting wet. At this price point, you're getting a ton of suction power, excellent mopping capabilities, and powerful AI technology. One downfall is you'll have to manually empty the dust bin after every use, and maybe even more depending on how large a job you task the robot with.
That may be the only downfall, though. ZDNET's Maria Diaz loved that the X9 can wash its mop heads repeatedly throughout a job, saying "I don't want to see my robot mop dragging dry, dirty mopping pads minutes after it should've returned for a refresh, but I haven't found this to be a problem with the X9." Review: I'm letting AI mop my floors now, and I'm not going back View now at Amazon Yeedi Cube Save $100 Maria Diaz/ZDNET Current price: $500 Original price: $600 The Yeedi cube is on sale this holiday shopping season and at a fantastic price for everything you get. With 4,300Pa suction, a mop head that vibrates 2,500 times per minute, and 150 minutes of runtime, you will be impressed. You may be disappointed in the robot's lack of object avoidance, though. If you're someone who doesn't have kids leaving toys behind or simply keep your house much tidier than mine, you may not miss this feature. That's up for you to decide.
ZDNET's Maria Diaz says the Yeedi Cube is "a great fit for anyone looking for a midrange robot vacuum and mop with hands-free cleaning, especially if you don't have kids and want to come home to a clean house." Review: Yeedi Cube View now at Walmart Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni Save $240 Maria Diaz/ZDNET Current price: $1260 Original price: $1500 If you're looking to invest in a hands-free robot vacuum and mop this holiday season, the Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni is already on sale. This is an incredible machine that auto-empties, self-cleans both the mop heads and the mop head cleaning station, auto-dries, and everything in between. With an industry-leading 8,000Pa suction and oscillating mop heads, your floors will shine.
We love that the mop heads can automatically raise 0.60 inches when the machine encounters a rug or carpet, keeping your soft flooring surfaces clean. More notably, the square-shaped design of the robot is sleek and slim, coming in at only 3.74 inches tall, meaning it can fit easily under your hard to reach surfaces. We love the Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni and know you will too, especially at this price.
Review: This square-shaped robot vacuum may be the future of cleaning, and it's got the AI features to prove it View now at Amazon View now at Best Buy Roborock Q7 Max+ Save $450 roborock/ZDNET Current price: $420 Original price: $870 The Roborock Q7 Max+ is another great two-in-one option. With 4,200Pa suction, PreciSense LiDAR navigation, and 30 water flow levels to choose from, you can find the perfect clean for your home with this robot vacuum and mop. With 180 minutes of runtime, that's equivalent to about 3,200 square feet, the Q7 Max+ can take a ton of work off of your plate. The rubber rollers on the bottom keep hair from tangling during jobs with the Auto Empty Dock suctions away all of that hair, dust, and debris into itself for a hands-free experience.
Saving you $450, the Roborock Q7 Max+ is a great holiday option for everyone on your shopping list, including yourself. I've spent a lot of time testing and reviewing Roborock vacuums and mops and they all have lived up to the hype.
Review: Roborock S8 Pro Ultra review: This 2-in-1 vacuum can do just about everything View now at Amazon When is Black Friday 2023? Black Friday will be November 24, 2023, the day after Thanksgiving in the US. Leading up to the shopping holiday, many retailers put their merchandise on sale early, hoping to earn your business. While Black Friday isn't the in-store shopping extravaganza it used to be, there is something to be said for shopping from the comfort of your home after a day of Thanksgiving activities.
Black Friday kicks off a string of holiday shopping sales, with Cyber Monday and Small Business Tuesday quickly behind. This weekend typically signifies the start of the holiday season and you can often get a lot of the gifts on your list purchased at a discounted price.
How did we choose these early Black Friday deals? ZDNET only writes about deals we want to buy -- devices and products we desire, need, or would recommend. Our experts looked for deals that were at least 20% off (or are hardly ever on sale), using established price comparison tools and trackers to determine whether the deal is actually on sale and how frequently it drops.
We also looked over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the deals we're recommending. Our recommendations may also be based on our own testing -- in addition to extensive research and comparison shopping. The goal is to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter.
What is the best robot vacuum? The Roomba j7+ is far and away the smartest, most advanced robot vacuum on the market that I have tested. Its PrecisionVision navigation ensures that it's cleaning the rooms you want cleaned and gathering an accurate map of your home. The ability to add Cleaning zones for particularly dirty areas or Keep Out zones where you may not want the robot to go is an added bonus. Pet parents everywhere can agree that the P.O.O.P. guarantee will help them sleep easier at night, knowing their home will get vacuumed without smearing through any accidents. And of course, being a Roomba device, you know that the robots are always getting new software updates so your robot vacuum is always getting smarter.
Also: The best robot vacuums, according to our testing What are the best early Black Friday 2023 deals? ZDNET's experts have been searching for early Black Friday deals across sites like Amazon, Best Buy, Walmart, Newegg, and more. Here are the top deals by category we've found so far.
Best early Black Friday deals Best early Black Friday deals under $30 Best Black Friday deals under $100 Best early Black Friday phone deals Best early Black Friday laptop deals Best early Black Friday tablet deals Best early Black Friday TV deals Best early Black Friday smartwatch deals Best early Black Friday headphones deals Best early Black Friday monitor deals Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals Best early Black Friday VPN deals Best early Black Friday Amazon deals Best early Black Friday Apple deals Best early Black Friday Samsung deals Best early Black Friday Best Buy deals Best early Black Friday Dell deals Best early Black Friday HP deals Best early Black Friday Verizon deals Best early Black Friday Newegg deals Best early Black Friday Walmart deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals Best early Black Friday Apple Watch deals Best early Black Friday AirPods deals Best early Black Friday iPad deals Best early Black Friday security camera deals Best early Black Friday storage and SSD deals Best early Black Friday Fitbit and fitness tracker deals Best early Black Friday Kindle deals Best early Black Friday Chromebook deals Best early Black Friday streaming deals Top holiday deals Best early Black Friday deals Top Black Friday robot vacuum deals Best Black Friday TV deals Top Black Friday headphones deals Editorial standards Show Comments Community Guidelines Related The Roomba Combo j9+ robot vacuum mop is $400 off for Black Friday The 128 best Amazon Black Friday deals 2023 live right now This all-in-one robot vacuum and mop is $200 off ahead of Black Friday ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
