X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Home & Office Why you can trust ZDNET : ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Our process 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
Home Home & Office Home Entertainment Streaming & Services The 23 best early Black Friday 2023 streaming deals Written by Gabriela Pérez Jordán, Associate Editor Nov. 15, 2023 at 11:52 a.m. PT View now View at Walmart View now View at Walmart View now View at Best Buy View now View at Best Buy View now View at Peacock View now View at Amazon View now View at Max View now View at Hulu When it comes to entertainment, streaming services are the customizable and budget-friendly way to enjoy the shows you love. But while cord-cutting was supposed to be the smart way to save on excessive entertainment and cable bills, streaming services keep raising their prices -- and with more services available than ever, you may find yourself paying over $100 a month to watch the shows you love.
Also: The best early Black Friday deals If you've already tried cutting your streaming bill in half and are looking for more ways to save some cash, we've got exciting news for you. Besides enjoying spectacular deals from your favorite brands, this Black Friday, you can also save big on streaming devices -- such as Roku, Amazon Fire, Chromecast Apple TV -- and streaming services you love and, quite frankly, can't live without. Streaming services such as Netflix , Paramount+ , Hulu , Max , Apple+ , and more are offering great deals on bundle packets ahead of Cyber Week, and ZDNET has rounded them all up for you.
Keep reading to find the best streaming devices and services deals available right now.
Best early Black Friday 2023 streaming device deals Roku Premiere: Deal for $29 (save $6) Roku Ultra LT Streaming Device: Deal for $55 (save $25) Roku 43" Smart TV: Deal for $230 (save $20) Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K: Deal for $25 (save $25) Fire TV Stick (3rd Gen): Deal for $20 (save $20) Best early Black Friday 2023 streaming services deals Paramount+ with a Walmart+ membership: Deal for free (save $5.99 per month) Sling Basketball Season Pass: Deal for $270 for 6 months (save $60) YouTube and YouTube Music ad-free: Deal for free with a Best Buy purchase (save $10.99 for 3 months) Sling Blue or Orange half off your first month: Deal for $20 (save $20) Starz: Deal for $5 per month for 3 months (save $4 per month) Best early Black Friday streaming VPN deals PureVPN: Deal for $1.83 per month on a five-year plan Private Internet Access VPN: Deal for $2.19 per month CyberGhost VPN: Deal for $2.19 per month (two-year plan, two months free, 45-day money-back guarantee) NordVPN: Deal for $3.79 per month (54% off, two-year subscription, three months free) AtlasVPN: Deal $1.64 per month on a three-year contract, six months free (save 86%) More early Black Friday 2023 streaming device deals Apple TV 4K Save $32 Maria Diaz/ZDNET Current Price: $158 Original Price: $190 If you've cut cable, a streaming device is your best bet to watch your favorite shows or movies. If having all things Apple is your thing, the Apple TV 4K will connect all your favorite devices and offer a 4K High Frame Rate HDR visual experience.
Beyond your favorite streaming services, you can download games, music, or news channels from the App Store. After a long day of work, my favorite thing is to open my Spotify app (sorry, Apple Music!) on the Apple TV and play my Unwind playlist as I cook and relax for the evening.
Also: The best streaming devices you can buy View now at Walmart View now at Amazon Chromecast with Google TV 4K HDR Save $10 Sean Jackson/CNET Current Price: $50 Original Price: $60 Chromecast with Google TV is a great budget-friendly streaming device that helps you turn any TV into a smart TV. Plug the tiny device into your TV's HDMI port, and get access to Google Assistant and Google Play apps, or watch your favorite movies in 1080p high-definition resolution.
Ahead of Black Friday, you can find the Chromecast for $50 at select retailers, such as Walmart or Amazon. When you purchase Chromecast with Google TV at Walmart, you can also get 6 months of Peacock Premium for free. However, if you purchase it at Amazon, you can get a free $10 Gift Card.
Review: Chromecast with Google TV View now at Walmart Amazon Fire TV Cube Save $30 Steven Vaughan-Nichols/ZDNET Current Price: $110 Original Price: $140 Amazon is known for its smart home devices, and the Fire TV Cube incorporates smart home features in a top-tier streaming device. Besides giving you access to your favorite streaming services, shows, or movies, you can control your TV, apps, and home devices with voice-control virtual assistant, Alexa, on the Amazon Fire TV Cube.
The Fire TV Cube supports Dolby Vision, HDR, and Dolby Atmos audio, so that you can get that cinematic experience from the comfort of your own home. Ahead of Black Friday, you can find the Fire TV Cube for $30 less.
Also: The best Fire TV players: Fire TV Stick, Cube, Lite, and more compared View now at Best Buy View now at Bhphotovideo View now at Amazon Amazon Fire TV Stick Save $20 Sean Jackson/CNET Current Price: $20 Original Price: $40 The Amazon Fire TV Stick has made headlines ever since its release. Not only is it incredibly affordable, but its slick, thin, and small design hides behind your TV, transforming it into a smart one.
You can press the microphone button to access Alexa, use your Prime membership for shopping, or simply watch the latest shows or movies on Netflix, Hulu, Max, or Disney+. Right now, you can even find the budget-friendly Amazon Fire TV Stick for an even cheaper price since Amazon has it on sale for $20 ahead of Cyber Week.
Also: Amazon Fire TV Stick comparison: How they stack up to each other View now at Best Buy More early Black Friday 2023 streaming service deals Peacock Deals Save $24 per year with Annual Peacock Premium Plus plan Peacock/ZDNET Current Price: $10 per month Original Price: $11.99 per month As a streaming service from NBCUniversal, Peacock offers everything from live TV and sports to blockbuster movies and award-winning shows. Currently, Peacock offers two monthly plans: a Premium plan for $5.99 and a Premium Plus plan for $11.99.
However, if you get the Annual Plan Deals, you can save $12 per year on the Premium plan and $24 per year on the Premium Plus. If you are a Spectrum TV customer, you can get Peacock for free, or if you are a student, you can get Peacock Premium for $1.99 per month, saving you $48. There is currently no Peacock TV free trial, but you can cancel the service anytime.
Also: The best Netflix alternatives: Binge-watch elsewhere View now at Peacock Prime Video Deals Save $96 per year with Prime Qualified Government Assistance plan Amazon/ZDNET Current Price: $6.99 per month Original Price: $14.99 per month Prime Video is available as part of the Amazon Prime membership for $14.99, or you can sign up for it on your own for $8.99 per month. If you sign up for the annual Prime membership, you can also save $40 per year. The streaming service offers a wide range of movies, shows, sports, and even Amazon original films and series.
If you are looking for some deals to save some cash, students can get a Prime monthly membership for $7.49 per month, saving them $90 a year, or $69 per year, saving them $111 a year. Qualified government assistance recipients, including SNAP EBT and Medicaid, can get Prime for $6.99, saving them $96 annually.
Amazon also offers a 30-day free trial for non-Prime members and a Student 6-month free trial if you want to test the service before committing to it.
Also: The best video streaming services View now at Amazon View now at Amazon Government View now at Amazon Student Max Deals Save $42 with Max Ad-Free Annual plan Max/ZDNET Current price: $12.50 per month Original price: $15.99 per month HBO first launched its streaming service in 2020 as HBO Max. However, in May of this year, the service rebranded itself as Max to broaden its content offerings. Max offers two plans: A With Ads plan at $9.99 per month and an Ad-Free plan at $15.99 per month.
Also: The best VPN for streaming You can include a Sports Add-On for free for a limited-time promotion. If you sign up for Max's yearly plans, you can also save up to 20% and get its With Ads plan for $100 per year (saving you $20 per year) or its Ad-Free plan for $150 per year (saving you $42 per year).
If you are a Cricket customer, you can get Max for free in its $60 per month plan.
View now at Max View now at Cricket Hulu Deals Save $216 per year with Disney Bundle Trio Hulu/ZDNET Current Price: $25 per month for the trio bundle with no ads Original Price: $43 per month for all three individually with no ads Hulu offers several deals, especially when it comes to bundles. Currently, a Basic Hulu account is $7.99 per month with ads and $17.99 without ads and includes a 30-day free trial. If you are a student, you can get Hulu with Ads for $1.99 per month, saving you $6 monthly.
If you get the Disney Bundle Duo, you can get Disney+ and Hulu with ads for $9.99 per month or without ads for $20, saving you 37%. Or if you get the Disney Bundle Trio, which includes Hulu, Disney+, and ESPN+ you can get all three with ads for $14.99 per month or without ads for $25, saving you over 40% on all three services.
Also: The best live TV streaming services View now at Hulu View now at Disney+ When is Black Friday 2023? This year Black Friday falls on Nov. 24, the day after Thanksgiving, while Cyber Monday falls on Nov. 27, the Monday after Thanksgiving.
However, as has been the case the past few years, many manufacturers and retailers are offering holiday discounts ahead of the Cyber Week deals event. Big retailers, such as Best Buy, Amazon, and Walmart, are among those offering great deals on all sorts of tech products.
How did we choose these early Black Friday deals? ZDNET only writes about deals we want to buy -- devices and products we desire, need, or would recommend. Our experts looked for deals that were at least 20% off (or are hardly ever on sale), using established price comparison tools and trackers to determine whether the deal is actually on sale and how frequently it drops.
We also looked over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the deals we're recommending. Our recommendations may also be based on our own testing -- in addition to extensive research and comparison shopping. The goal is to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter.
What is the best streaming device and service? When it comes to streaming devices and services, it is honestly up to personal preference and budget. Most, if not all, of the tech giants offer their version of a streaming device that can turn your regular TV into a smart TV (if you don't already have one). ZDNET's pick for the best streaming device overall is the Apple TV 4K, which is also the one I own and love. But back when I was a college student, the Amazon Fire TV stick was my favorite due to its incredible value for price.
In terms of the best streaming services, picking a favorite truly depends on the shows and movies you love to watch. That is why we included the best deals available on all of the most popular services. However, if you really want to know my personal favorite, Hulu and Max are a non-negotiable must-have for me.
What are the best early Black Friday deals right now? ZDNET's experts have been searching for early Black Friday deals across sites like Amazon, Best Buy, Walmart, Newegg, and more. Here are the top deals by category we've found so far.
Best early Black Friday deals Best early Black Friday phone deals Best early Black Friday laptop deals Best early Black Friday tablet deals Best early Black Friday TV deals Best early Black Friday smartwatch deals Best early Black Friday headphones deals Best early Black Friday monitor deals Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals Best early Black Friday security camera deals Best early Black Friday storage and SSD deals Best early Black Friday Chromebook deals Best early Black Friday streaming deals Best early Black Friday VPN deals Best early Black Friday Fitbit and fitness tracker deals Best early Black Friday Kindle deals Best early Black Friday iPad deals Best early Black Friday AirPods deals You can also find the best early Black Friday deals by price: Best early Black Friday deals under $30 Best early Black Friday deals under $100 And the best deals from top retailers: Best early Black Friday Amazon deals Best early Black Friday Apple deals Best early Black Friday Samsung deals Best early Black Friday Best Buy deals Best early Black Friday Dell deals Best early Black Friday HP deals Best early Black Friday Verizon deals Best early Black Friday Newegg deals Best early Black Friday Walmart deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals Top holiday deals Best early Black Friday deals Top Black Friday robot vacuum deals Best Black Friday TV deals Top Black Friday headphones deals Editorial standards Show Comments Community Guidelines Related The best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 The best early Black Friday 2023 deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and more The 17 best early Black Friday deals under $30 ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
