X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Home & Office Why you can trust ZDNET : ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Our process 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
Home Home & Office The best holiday tech gifts under $50 Written by Sabrina Ortiz, Editor Nov. 17, 2023 at 10:08 a.m. PT Kayla Solino View now View at Target View now View at Amazon View now View at Amazon View now View at Amazon View now View at Amazon View now View at Amazon View now View at Best Buy View now View at Amazon View now View at Amazon View now View at Amazon Shopping for holiday gifts for your loved ones can quickly add up and become pretty expensive. However, you don't need to spend a fortune to find a gift that will not only impress -- but also make their lives easier. To drive that point home, ZDNET put together a list of best-value tech products that are sure to impress without breaking the bank.
Also: Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and more We've got a gift for everyone on your shopping list, from the working professional to the music lover to the notetaking aficionado and more, all under $50, making it the perfect budget gift or even stocking stuffer. The best part is that most of these products are discounted even further right now, making these gifts a bang for your buck.
Linq card Best cheap tech gift for the business professional Price: $15 If someone on your list is a working professional who could benefit from business cards, the Linq card is an alternative that will be sure to wow. Whenever I go to a professional event and show people my Linq card, usually people are amazed, making it not only practical but also a great conversation starter.
All you have to do when you get the card is set it up in the Linq app, and then when people tap your card with their phone, your Linq profile will come up, which they can then easily save to their contacts. It really is that simple. Did I mention that the price point and size make it a great stocking stuffer? View now at Target View now at Amazon Anker Nano 22.5W Power Bank Best cheap tech gift for on-the-go charging Sabrina Ortiz/ZDNET Price: $30 With Apple's recent switch to USB-C charging, now most phone users employ a USB-C charging port, which this Anker Power Bank is perfect for. This power bank's major selling point is its compact design, which makes it no bigger than most of my lipsticks. Despite its small size, the charger still packs impressive features including 5,000mAh capacity, which is enough to charge an iPhone 15 Pro to 68%, according to Anker.
It also has a foldable USB-C port, which eliminates the need for pesky wires or the struggle of trying to find out where to place your portable charger, since you can just let it hang from your phone as you continue with your phone activities.
View now at Amazon CLCKR Phone Holder & Grip for MagSafe Best cheap tech gift for MagSafe case users Sabrina Ortiz/ZDNET Price: $30 I know you may be thinking $30 for a phone accessory is a steep price, but let me tell you why it's worth the price tag. Typically, I have strayed away from any MagSafe accessory since the hold is typically mediocre, and I feel like it will slip off my phone at any given point. However, this accessory changed my opinion.
The hold on the back of my phone is so strong that I can turn my phone upside down while holding just the accessory, and my phone will not slip off. This little accessory helps avoid hand fatigue while holding your phone up and scrolling aimlessly and even doubles as a little stand you can use to prop up your phone for FaceTime calls, video streaming, and more.
View now at Amazon Amazon Fire TV Stick Best cheap tech gift for the video content streamer Maria Diaz/ZDNET Price: $40 (on-sale for $20 on Amazon) An Amazon Fire TV Stick has the ability to make your older TV have the capabilities of a newer, smart TV by giving it access to all of your favorite streaming apps. All you have to do is find the HDMI port on your TV, plug the stick in, sign-in to your Amazon account, and then download and sign into your favorite streaming services to start watching.
This is especially a great gift for people who aren't ready to take the plunge and upgrade to a brand-new smart TV but could use a little upgrade. Amazon is usually consistently running deals on this product, and right now, it's available for 50% off, making it only $20.
Also: The best streaming devices of 2023 View now at Amazon Rocketbook Fusion Smart Notebook Best cheap tech gift for digital notetakers Allison Murray/ZDNET Price: $40 (on sale for $25 on Amazon) Novelty meets practicality with this gift. If you know someone who is very organized and likes to take notes, this gift is perfect for them. The Rocketbook Fusion Smart Notebook scratches the itch to physically put pen to paper while also providing the convenience of digital, portable notes.
The notebook comes with synthetic paper, which users can write on the same way they would on any piece of paper, using the included Pilot FriXion pen. Then, users can easily scan the pages and save them to Rocketbook's app cloud, which will give the notes a digital home accessible at any time from your devices. Then, when they are ready, they can wipe the physical page clean with a damp cloth to reuse again and again.
Also: The best smart notebooks View now at Amazon TONEOF 60" Cell Phone Selfie Stick Tripod Best cheap tech gift for the person who loves taking photos Sabrina Ortiz/ZDNET Price: $35 (on sale for $30) I purchased this tripod when I realized I was traveling somewhere where I wanted to take a photo but knew that I would most likely not have someone to take it, or at least someone who would take it to my liking. This tripod is portable and super easy to fit anywhere, not much bigger than a Stanley bottle in height and much slimmer in width, as seen in the photo.
Despite its compactness when folded, it stretches to five feet, perfect for full-body photos. The photo clicker is an added bonus that lets you snap photos with a click of a button, even when the tripod is feet away.
View now at Amazon Apple AirTag Best cheap tech gift for Apple users Maria Diaz/ZDNET Price: $29 Everyone can use some help keeping track of their items, and AirTags can do just that. Whether it be keys, your wallet, your remote, or even your pets, AirTags are a great solution for keeping track of items you don't want to lose.
This is a great gift for iPhone users since AirTags integrate perfectly into the Apple ecosystem and FindMy system to locate the items. My favorite feature is the one that will tell you exactly how many feet away your item is, helping you pinpoint the exact location when you might not be able to physically see it.
Review: AirTags View now at Best Buy View now at B&H Photo-Video View now at Apple JBL Clip 3 Best cheap tech gift for portable music Amazon/ZDNET Price: $50 (on sale for $40 on Amazon) Give someone on your shopping list the gift of music with the JBL Clip 3 Portable Bluetooth speaker. The speaker delivers a clear, loud, and booming sound perfect for any occasion, including a party, workout, shower or even just casual music enjoyment.
Its compact design makes it easy to bring anywhere, even on daily commutes, since it has a convenient clip to attach to a backpack, briefcase, or another object and is waterproof, making it rainproof. Users can even use it to take calls thanks to a noise-canceling speakerphone built into the speaker. With 12 different color choices, you can find one that will suit everyone on your list's taste.
Also: The best portable speakers View now at Amazon Echo Dot (5th generation) Best cheap tech gift for smart home users Amazon/ZDNET Price: $50 (on sale for $23) If someone you know hasn't ever owned an Echo device, this speaker is a great way to introduce them to the world of smart home assistants. With the Echo Dot, users can use their voice to play music, learn about the weather, set cooking timers, and get other Alexa Assistance.
For those who are already a little tech-savvy and familiar with smart home appliances, they can even use Alexa to turn their lights on and off and control other aspects of their smart home. Lastly, if you know someone who already owns an Echo Dot, the new fifth-generation model boasts upgrades to the last, including better speakers, making it the perfect gift for them.
View now at Amazon CHERRY MW4500 Wireless Vertical Ergonomic Optical Mouse Best cheap tech gift for people with lots of screen time Amazon/ZDNET Price: $37 (on sale for $22 on Amazon) Whether the person you are shopping for is a student, working professional, or just someone who likes to spend a lot of time on their computer, they can severely benefit from an ergonomic mouse. This mouse has an ergonomic shape, which makes it more comfortable to hold, avoiding pain in the hand or wrist after long periods of time.
At $37, this mouse made ZDNET's pick for best budget ergonomic mouse.
 Right now, it is even on sale, making it cheaper than it already was at only $22.
View now at Amazon How did we choose these cheap tech gifts? First, I identified the different interests the people on your wish list may have. Then, I used my own hands-on experience with many of these products, as well as the experiences and expertise of the other ZDNET experts to curate the perfect gifts for each person. For this particular list, I made sure to keep budget in mind, making sure all the finds had an original pricetag that was under $50.
Where can I find the best early Black Friday deals? ZDNET's experts have been searching for early Black Friday deals across sites like Amazon, Best Buy, Walmart, Newegg, and more. Here are the top deals by category we've found so far.
Best early Black Friday deals Best early Black Friday deals under $30 Best Black Friday deals under $100 Best early Black Friday phone deals Best early Black Friday laptop deals Best early Black Friday tablet deals Best early Black Friday TV deals Best early Black Friday smartwatch deals Best early Black Friday headphones deals Best early Black Friday monitor deals Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals Best early Black Friday VPN deals Best early Black Friday Amazon deals Best early Black Friday Apple deals Best early Black Friday Samsung deals Best early Black Friday Best Buy deals Best early Black Friday Dell deals Best early Black Friday HP deals Best early Black Friday Verizon deals Best early Black Friday Newegg deals Best early Black Friday Walmart deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals Best early Black Friday Apple Watch deals Best early Black Friday AirPods deals Best early Black Friday iPad deals Best early Black Friday security camera deals Best early Black Friday storage and SSD deals Best early Black Friday Fitbit and fitness tracker deals Best early Black Friday Kindle deals Best early Black Friday Chromebook deals Best early Black Friday streaming deals ZDNET Recommends The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you) The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick) The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money) Editorial standards Show Comments Community Guidelines Related The best holiday tech gifts under $100: Fibit, Kindle, and more The best holiday tech gifts under $25 The 17 best early Black Friday deals under $30 ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
