X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Home & Office Why you can trust ZDNET : ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Our process 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
Home Home & Office Home Entertainment TVs The best OLED TVs you can buy Written by Taylor Clemons, Staff Writer Oct. 9, 2023 at 11:03 a.m. PT Nina Raemont View now View at Amazon View now View at Best Buy View now View at Best Buy View now View at Samsung View now View at Best Buy An OLED TV is often considered the crown jewel of any home theater or living room. The unique construction of OLED panels features individually lit pixels, which allow the TV to create deep, inky blacks, bright whites, and crisp details. The organic substrates also allow for a wide, vibrant color range for more lifelike images. An OLED TV is a perfect upgrade for movie buffs and sports fans.
The downside? OLED TVs are more expensive than other TVs on the market since their panels are expensive to produce and the TVs contain fairly new technology. Most models you can find are either from LG or Sony -- Vizio does offer a few OLED models, but they aren't quite the same caliber. Samsung also introduced its first OLED television, the S95B, to compete with LG and Sony for brand dominance.
My choice for the best OLED TV is the Sony A95L for its updated QD-OLED panel, ambient light sensor, and multiple stand options. You can keep reading below to find out more about the Sony A95L as well as my other picks for the best OLED TVs.
Also: The 5 best 8K TVs (and why you should ignore OLED options) Best OLED TVs of 2023 Sony A95L Best OLED TV overall Rebecca Isaacs/ZDNET Pros & Cons Updated QD-OLED panel Acoustic Surface Audio+ VRR technology for console gaming Expensive, especially at larger screen sizes Pre-order only at time of writing More Details Sony A95L specs - Screen size: 55-77 inches | Panel type: QD-OLED | Refresh rate: 120Hz | Resolution: 4K | HDR: Dolby Vision | Audio: Acoustic Surface Audio+ | Voice controls: Alexa, Hey Google The A95L is set to be the crown-jewel of Sony's latest TV line-up, featuring an updated QD-OLED panel, as well as a host of premium features. ZDNET's Rebecca Isaacs got some hands-on experience with the Sony A95L , and praised its support for Google Duo and Zoom for video calls to help keep you in touch with family, friends, and coworkers. It supports Dolby Vision for enhanced color and detailing to give you an almost unparalleled viewing experience for movies, online videos, and TV shows.
It also uses Sony's Acoustic Surface Audio+ technology to turn the entire screen into a speaker for near-perfect audio and video syncing as well as sound that follows the on-screen action. Movie buffs will love the IMAX Enhanced and Netflix Adaptive Calibrated modes, which allow you to see your favorite movies and shows as their creators intended. It also works with VRR technology for console gaming to prevent screen tearing and stuttering.
View now at Amazon View now at Walmart View now at Best Buy more buying choices LG evo M Series Best big-screen OLED TV LG/ZDNET Pros & Cons All wireless signal Stream in 4K at 120Hz Up to 97-inch screen Wireless receiver only has 2 HDMI inputs Very, very expensive More Details LG OLED evo M series specs - Screen size: 77-97 inches | Panel type: OLED | Refresh rate: 120Hz | Resolution: 4K | HDR: Dolby Vision IQ | Audio: Dolby Atmos | Voice controls: Alexa, Hey Google The LG OLED evo M Series is quite literally the largest OLED TV in the world with up to a 97-inch screen for a truly cinematic experience at home, if you have the space (as well as lots of cash burning a hole in your pocket). The TV uses Dolby Vision IQ HDR for enhanced detailing, color, and contrast as well as Dolby Atmos for virtual surround sound for more immersive audio while watching movies, online videos, and TV shows. The M Series is also LG's first all-wireless model, using a small relay box to send video signals from your playback devices and game consoles to the TV itself for an ultra-clean look. The wireless receiver is capable of providing video in up to 4K resolution and up to 120Hz for smooth motion during sports, gaming, and action scenes. However, be prepared to shell out top-dollar for the LG evo M Series, as the 97-inch model tops out at $30,000. The 77-inch version, which is the smallest available, is a more reasonable $5,000.
View now at Best Buy View now at LG View now at B&H Photo-Video more buying choices LG B3 Best OLED TV under $1500 LG/ZDNET Pros & Cons Under $1500 Dolby Vision ID and Dolby Atmos support Preloaded streaming apps Support for both Alexa and Hey Google voice controls No Wi-Fi 6 support No Chromecast support More Details LG B3 specs - Screen size: 55 inches | Panel type: OLED | Refresh rate: 120Hz | Resolution: 4K | HDR: Dolby Vision IQ | Audio: Dolby Atmos | Voice controls: Alexa, Hey Google If you're eyeing an OLED TV to upgrade your home theater or living room, but are nervous about the price, the LG B3 55-inch retails under $1500, making it one of the more affordable options on the market. You'll still get excellent picture quality with true blacks for enhanced contrast, as well as Dolby Vision IQ HDR support for better detailing and color volume. The B3 also works with Dolby Atmos for virtual surround sound as well as both Alexa and Hey Google for hands-free voice controls. The B3 is preloaded with a suite of popular streaming apps like Netflix, Disney+, and Prime Video so you can start watching your favorite shows and movies right out of the box; and with the webOS platform, you'll get access to thousands more to turn your TV into the ultimate entertainment hub.
View now at Best Buy View now at B&H Photo-Video View now at Crutchfield more buying choices Samsung S95C Best OLED TV for gaming Rebecca Isaacs/ZDNET Pros & Cons Cloud gaming services Up to 144Hz refresh rate Support for AMD FreeSync Premium Pro VRR OneConnect compatible No Dolby Vision support Cloud gaming services require separate subscriptions More Details Samsung S95C specs - Screen size: 55-77 inches | Panel type: OLED | Refresh rate: 120Hz | Resolution: 4K | HDR: Quantum HDR OLED+ | Audio: Object Tracking Sound+, Dolby Atmos | Voice controls: Alexa, Hey Google Console gamers looking for a dedicated TV for their space should definitely check out the Samsung S95C. Along with excellent picture quality with the OLED panel, it uses Dolby Atmos and Samsung's Object Tracking Sound+ technology to provide virtual surround sound that follows the on-screen action; which is great news for gamers who don't like to play while wearing bulky headsets. The Samsung Game Hub gives you access to cloud gaming platforms like GeForce NOW and Xbox GamePass so you can play old favorites and new releases without needing to buy a physical copy or downloading large game files.
More: The Samsung S95C is one of the best OLED TVs yet It also lets you monitor frame rate and input response times to let you catch and address issues before they ruin your gaming session. ZDNET's June Wan was able to test the S95C in person, and praised its compatibility with the OneConnect system which allows you to use a single cable to connect all of your game consoles and playback devices to your TV; this helps keep power and HDMI cables from getting tangled and making your gaming space feel cluttered and messy.
View now at Samsung View now at Crutchfield View now at B&H Photo-Video more buying choices Sony A90K Best small-screen OLED TV Sony/ZDNet Pros & Cons Dolby Vision Acoustic Surface Audio+ Preloaded streaming apps Voice controls Pricey No anti-reflection coating on screen More Details Sony A90K specs - Screen size: 42 or 48 inches | Panel type: OLED | Refresh rate: 120Hz | Resolution: 4K | HDR: Dolby Vision | Audio: Acoustic Surface Audio+ | Voice controls: Alexa, Hey Google The Sony A90K was one of my top picks for the best 43-inch TVs , and it's a great option for anyone who is looking to buy an OLED TV, but needs a smaller screen. It's available in both 42- and 48-inch screen sizes, perfect for bedrooms, apartments, and dorm rooms. And even with the smaller screen, you'll still get excellent picture quality from the OLED panel, 120Hz refresh rate, and support for Dolby Vision HDR. You'll also get Sony's Acoustic Surface Audio+ technology for near-perfect audio and video syncing as well as sound that follows the on-screen action.
The A90K uses the Google TV platform to give you a suite of preloaded apps like Netflix, Hulu, and Prime Video so you can start streaming right out of the box. You'll also get access to thousands more so you can stream music, online videos, and photos for more ways to entertain family and friends. And with support for both Alexa and Hey Google, you'll get hands-free voice controls over your new TV and connected devices.
View now at Best Buy View now at Walmart View now at Crutchfield more buying choices What is the best OLED TV? My choice for the best OLED TV is the Sony A95L. It's available in three popular screen sizes, and uses an updated QD-OLED panel to produce a wider color range compared to previous Sony OLED models. It also supports Dolby Vision HDR for enhanced detailing and contrast as well as Sony's Acoustic Surface Audio+ technology to turn the whole screen into a speaker. This gives you near-perfect audio and video syncing as well as sound that follows the on-screen action. And console gamers will love the fact that the Sony A95L is optimized for play with the PlayStation 5, offering VRR technology to prevent screen tearing and stuttering as well as support for 120Hz refresh rates at 4K resolution.
Best OLED TV Price Screen size Audio/HDR Sony A95L $3,500 55-77 inches Sony Acoustic Surface Audio+, Dolby Vision LG evo M Series $5,000 77-97 inches Dolby Atmos, Dolby Vision IQ LG B3 $1,400 55-77 inches Dolby Atmos, Dolby Vision IQ Samsung S95C $2,500 55-83 inches Dolby Atmos/Object Tracking Sound+, Quantum HDR OLED+ Sony A90K $1,300 42 or 48 inches Acoustic Surface Audio+, Dolby Vision MSRP at time of writing. Please note that actual prices may change depending on available sales, discounts, and manufacturer rebates or coupons.
Which OLED TV is right for you? While all OLED models are somewhat pricey, it's still important to finalize your budget. That way, you won't accidentally overspend, and you'll get the best value for your money. Choose a model that not only fits your budget, but one that also offers enough features and a big enough screen size to justify its price.
Buy this best OLED TV...
If you need...
Sony A95L A well-rounded OLED TV. The Sony A95L is available in popular screen sizes, and provides a top-tier viewing experience for movies and shows.
LG evo M Series A large-screen OLED TV. The LG evo M Series is available in screen sizes from 77 to 97 inches for true big-screen viewing.
LG B3 An OLED TV under $1500. The 55-inch version of the LG B3 retails for around $1400, making it one of the more affordable options on the market.
Samsung S95C An OLED TV for console gaming. Samsung's Gaming Hub gives you access to cloud gaming platforms as well as Nvidia G-Sync and AMD FreeSync VRR technology.
Sony A90K A small-screen OLED TV. The Sony A90K is available in either 42- or 48-inch screen sizes, making it perfect for apartments, bedrooms, or dorm rooms.
How did we choose these OLED TVs? While researching and testing each of the OLED TVs featured on this list, I and other ZDNET experts kept these criteria in mind: Price: While OLED TVs are more expensive than their QLED or LED counterparts, there are still options out there for customers looking to save a bit of money while upgrading their home theater. I did my best to include a variety of OLED models at different price points to fit a wide range of budgets.
Connectivity: Your new TV should be able to connect with all of your game consoles and playback devices like cable or satellite boxes, Blu-Ray and DVD players, and home audio equipment. Each OLED TV on this list features an array of input ports for physical connections as well as support for Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, AirPlay, and/or Chromecast.
HDR: An OLED TV can provide an almost unparalleled viewing experience due to the fact that the panels are built with self-lit pixels in order to create true blacks and sharper contrast. I've ensured that each model on this list also supports a variety of HDR codecs for enhancing detailing and color for even better picture quality.
Audio: A great picture doesn't mean much if your TV's audio isn't up to snuff. Each OLED TV on this list has been confirmed to support soundbars and other home audio equipment as well as virtual surround sound codecs like Dolby Atmos.
What is an OLED TV? An OLED TV is a model that uses specialized, organic substrates and individually lit LEDs to create stark contrast, brighter and richer colors, as well as crisper details than what you can get with an LED or QLED television. The technology is best appreciated by movie and TV buffs who want to experience Hollywood classics and the latest blockbusters as their creators intended. OLED TVs are also ideal for console gamers looking to embrace native 4K graphics.
What is the difference between OLED and QLED TV? OLED and QLED use different TV technologies, and their main differences include the black levels, color, and contrast. OLED TVs are better at black levels, while QLED TVs are better with brightness and usually cost less than OLED TVs.
More: OLED vs. QLED: Which is better for you? You can also check out our in-depth looks at the differences between OLED and LED TVs or OLED and Neo QLED TVs.
Is an OLED TV worth it? An OLED TV is absolutely worth it if picture quality is at the top of your "must-have" feature list when shopping for a new TV. An OLED panel can create incredibly vibrant colors and crisp details that breathe new life into classic media and show off the technical skills used to create new movies and shows. Even if you aren't a movie buff, you can still get a ton of value out of an OLED TV, since they have a longer lifespan than other models. Also, an OLED TV can sort of future-proof your living room or home theater, since it will take a while for LED and QLED TV models to catch up to the quality you can get from an OLED version.
Why are OLED TVs so expensive? The technology behind OLED TVs is still new and more complicated than what you'd find in an LED panel. This makes it more expensive to produce, so higher manufacturing costs get passed down as high retail prices to consumers. Thankfully, companies like LG and Sony are finding more streamlined and cost-effective ways to produce OLED panels, making them a bit more affordable than before. However, they are still much more expensive than their LED and QLED counterparts.
Are there alternative OLED TVs worth considering? Sony and LG used to be the only brands that offered OLED models, but Samsung and even Vizio have started to release their own. Here's a short list of other OLED models that are also worth considering: Buy Now LG OLED Flex The LG OLED Flex is a 42-inch smart TV that can be used as either a traditional flat-panel or as a curved screen. With the push of a button, the screen automatically curves to reduce overhead glare and provide better viewing angles, especially if you want to use the Flex as a gaming monitor.
View at Best Buy Buy Now Samsung S90C The Samsung S90C is a more mid-range option for brand loyalists looking for an OLED TV. It offers many of the same features as the S95C, but for hundreds of dollars less.
View at Samsung Buy Now LG OLED evo G3 The LG OLED evo G3 is a gallery-inspired TV that is made to not only provide an excellent viewing experience, but also to turn your home theater into a personal art space. You can download images or upload your own work to create a custom slideshow.
View at Best Buy ZDNET Recommends The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you) The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick) The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money) Editorial standards Show Comments Community Guidelines Related The best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 This Samsung projector is $200 off ahead of Black Friday sales The best Samsung Galaxy phones you can buy ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
