X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Home & Office Why you can trust ZDNET : ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Our process 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
Home Home & Office Home Entertainment Speakers The best speakers you can buy Written by Lena Borrelli, Contributing Writer Jan. 10, 2023 at 9:20 a.m. PT Allison Murray View now View at Crutchfield View now View at Crutchfield View now View at Walmart View now View at Amazon View now View at Best Buy The right speaker can make a huge difference in how you enjoy audio content. Whether it is your favorite album, a new audiobook, or the latest demo, the best speakers transform audio, bringing it to life in vivid clarity and rich bass. First, though, you need to know the best speakers, especially the one that suits your needs.
ZDNET Recommends The best smart speakers Here are your best options from Google, Apple, and more.
Read now That is where we can help. We have surveyed the market to find the very best speakers that you can buy for your home or office. No matter which you pick, your family and friends are sure to enjoy the best speakers for all their listening pleasure.
More: The best portable speakers The best stereo speakers The best Bluetooth speakers The best PC speakers The best Sonos speakers Sonos Roam Best speaker overall Pros & Cons Waterproof Great compatibility Portable Lacks Bluetooth stereo pairing No speakerphone More Details Tech Specs: Type: Wireless | Water-resistant: Yes | Battery life: 10 hours | Watts: 80 watts The Sonos Roam gives the best of both worlds with both WiFi and Bluetooth capability. Gain control through the Sonos app, Apple AirPlay 2, or your own voice with Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant. You also have the option to purchase a whole-home sound system when you connect multiple Sonos speakers. Either way, this speaker is both waterproof and dustproof and is designed for life on the go. Plus, there are up to ten hours of battery life.
Read the review: Sonos Roam SL drops the mic with a $159 price tag and all the portability View now at Crutchfield View now at Sonos, Inc.
View now at Best Buy more buying choices Audioengine A2 Plus Best PC speakers Audioengine Pros & Cons Powerful bass Extended range Portable Limited bass No remote More Details Tech Specs: Type: Wireless | Water-resistant: No | Battery life: N/A | Watts: 60 watts The Audioengine A2 Plus could not simplify PC use more, offering easy PC connectivity and requiring barely any setup. The speaker connects via Bluetooth, or you can use USB or RCA connections. Either way, it works up to 100 feet away, giving you freedom of movement. You receive 60 watts of power, making it quite powerful for its size. You can save on battery, too, because when it is not in use, it automatically shifts into auto-sensing sleep mode.
View now at Crutchfield View now at Walmart View now at B&H Photo-Video more buying choices Fluance Ai81 Powered Floorstanding Speakers Best floor-standing speakers Fluance Pros & Cons Bluetooth connectivity Rich sound Beautiful design May be too large for smaller spaces Pricey More Details Tech Specs: Type: Wired | Water-resistant: No | Battery life: N/A | Watts: 150 watts The Fluance Ai81 Powered Floorstanding Speakers are not your average tower speakers. They are perfect for larger rooms, filling the space with deep, rich sound, no matter how you choose to connect. You can use these speakers for your home theater, or you can use them for gaming. Bluetooth is also available, giving you excellent connectivity. Dual drivers paired with silk-dome neodymium tweeters provide powerful sound, using a 150-watt amplifier to really take your audio to the next level.
View now at Walmart View now at Amazon more buying choices GravaStar Mars Pro Best speaker design Pros & Cons Innovative design Excellent battery Multiple colors Not waterproof Limited EQ support More Details Tech Specs: Type: Wireless | Water-resistant: No | Battery life: 15 hours | Watts: 20 watts There is no denying that the GravaStar Mars Pro has style. This unique design hints of science fiction with its six RGB lights, but it is not to be underestimated. It incorporates a dual speaker system and a passive bass radiator for powerful sound that is both surprising and welcome. It has excellent wireless Bluetooth connectivity, working up to ten meters away. It lasts longer, too, with a 15-hour battery life.
View now at Amazon Marshall Woburn II Best retro speaker Marshall Pros & Cons Retro design Handles high volumes well Fantastic bass Pricey No accessories included More Details Tech Specs: Type: Wireless | Water-resistant: No | Battery life: N/A | Watts: 110 watts The Marshall Woburn II Speaker takes you back in time with its retro design, but that does not mean you need yesterday's audio. This speaker instead highlights the latest technology with both Bluetooth connectivity and atpX technology. It does not skimp on sound, either, with 110 watts, dual one-inch tweeters, and two subwoofers for incredible bass and crisp clarity. It also offers excellent connectivity with the ability to stream audio up to 30 feet away from your mobile device.
View now at Best Buy View now at Amazon more buying choices What is the best speaker? With its thoughtful, waterproof design, we vote the Sonos Roam as the best speaker on the market today. To see how it compares, this is an overview of the best speakers.
Speaker Cost Watts Water-resistant Sonos Roam $1780 80 watts ✔ Audioengine A2 Plus $269 60 watts ✘ Fluance Ai81 Powered Floorstanding Speakers $500 150 watts ✘ GravaStar Mars Pro $230 20 watts ✘ Marshall Woburn II $480 110 watts ✘ Which is the right speaker for you? To help you find the best speaker for your needs, consider our expert recommendations.
Choose this speaker...
If you want...
Sonos Roam Portability matched by value Audioengine A2 Plus Speakers for your computer Fluance Ai81 Powered Floorstanding Speakers Powerful floor-standing speakers GravaStar Mars Pro A fun speaker design Marshall Woburn II A retro speaker design with booming bass How did we choose these speakers? We used these factors and more to find the best speakers.
Connectivity: Many of the best speakers offer not only wired connections but also wireless connections with Bluetooth or Wi-Fi. Consider what content you plan to play and how you stream your content.
Location : Where you plan to listen to music makes a difference in the type of speaker that you need. For example, if you are looking for something to take with you on the go, you will likely want a smaller, more portable option that is also wireless. If you plan to use your speaker at home in your living room, you likely can benefit from a pair of tower speakers that are more suitable for a larger space.
Style: We love the Marshall Woburn II speaker for its retro design, and the GravaStar Mars Pro has a fun, sci-fi look to it, which makes it even easier to pick the best speaker if style matters to you.
Budget: The cost of the best speakers varies from $180 to $500, but it all depends on which speaker you choose.
What is the best brand of speakers? There are many different brands of speakers that come from many big names. However, we found that the speakers that performed the best came from companies like Sonos and Fluance.
What features should I look for in a speaker? Sound is the most important, so be sure to listen for clarity, bass, and treble in each speaker. There are also other considerations, like whether you need portability or waterproofing.
In addition, think about how you plan to connect, as there are wired speakers, wireless speakers, and Bluetooth speakers.
How much do the best speakers cost? Speakers can vary significantly in cost, so look for a speaker that falls within your budget. The best speakers range in cost from $180 to $500, but you will find speakers that are both more and less expensive.
Are there alternative speakers worth considering? In our search, we also found these alternative best speakers that may also be worth another look: Amazon Echo Dot (4th Gen): Best cheap speaker $24.64 at Amazon KEF LS50 Meta: Best speaker splurge $1,599.99 at Best Buy ZDNET Recommends The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you) The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick) The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money) Editorial standards Show Comments Community Guidelines Related The best sound systems you can buy, according to experts The best earbuds you can buy How to choose the best over-ear headphones: ZDNET's buying guide ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
