X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Home & Office Why you can trust ZDNET : ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Our process 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
Home Home & Office Kitchen & Household The best robot vacuum mops you can buy Written by Elizabeth Mauder, Video Producer Oct. 17, 2023 at 6:40 a.m. PT Gabriela Pérez Jordán Kayla Solino View now View at Amazon View now View at Amazon View now View at Amazon View now View at Best Buy View now View at Amazon View now View at Amazon View now View at Walmart Keeping your floors clean can seem like an impossible task, particularly when you have pets or children around who track in dirt and create messes every day. And having to vacuum and mop all the time can feel daunting, especially when you're trying to take care of different types of floors and their individual needs. I don't know about you, but at the end of the day, I'm exhausted and despise the idea of cleaning my floors.
Rest assured, I've finally found the solution: Robot vacuum mop combinations that can do things like detect what type of flooring they're on and adjust accordingly, empty their own dirt and water tanks, and keep away from obstacles in your home, all to keep your carpet, hardwood and tile floors spotless.
Also: The best robot mops you can buy I tested many of the best robot vacuum mops available, and I'm happy to report back: It is possible to sit back and relax while one of these machines takes care of all the hard work. The Roborock S7 MaxV Ultra is my pick for the best robot vacuum mop overall, thanks to its self-empty and self-cleaning features and its ability to intelligently move from vacuuming to mopping and back based on your floors. Check out ZDNET's tested picks for the best robot vacuum mop combos below.
The best robot vacuum mops of 2023 Roborock S7 MaxV Ultra Best robot vacuum mop overall Matthew Miller/ZDNET Pros & Cons Truly hands-free 5100Pa suction VibraRise technology Pricey More Details Roborock S7 MaxV Ultra tech specs: Battery life: 180 minutes | Wi-Fi: Yes | Dimensions: 16 x 16 x 19 inches If you want a truly hands-free robot vacuum and mop experience, you will want to invest in the Roborock S7 MaxV Ultra machine. It's a self-emptying, self-cleaning machine that can transition from carpet to tile, laminate, hardwood, and vinyl without hesitation. Thanks to its Empty Wash Fill dock, you can fill the Clean Water tank and then forget about the machine for a few days.
Review: Roborock S7 MaxV Ultra The S7 MaxV Ultra uses ReactiveAI 2.0 to navigate and map your home efficiently, avoiding common household objects. This is the technology that prevents your carpets from getting mopped. The S7 MaxV Ultra's mop head lifts when it encounters a carpeted surface, intelligently going from vacuuming and mopping to only vacuuming. This sets the Roborock S7 MaxV Ultra apart from other two-in-one machines on the market.
I've now tested three Roborocks, and they have all lived up to the hype -- these are incredibly useful, durable machines that truly make my life easier by keeping my floors in tip-top shape.
View now at Amazon Yeedi Mop Station Pro Best robot vacuum mop for hard floors Maria Diaz/ZDNET Pros & Cons 3000pa suction Carpet detection Rotating mop pads Often on sale No Obstacle Avoidance No self-emptying dustbin More Details Yeedi Mop Station Pro tech specs: Battery life: 180 minutes | Wi-Fi: Yes | Dimensions: 20 x 19 x 18 inches The Yeedi Mop Station Pro features spinning mop pads that periodically return to the base station to clean themselves. The 180-minute run time ensures enough time to clean the 600 square feet of my home's first story on a single charge.
This vacuum mop comes with two interchangeable dustbins: a small one that can hold the two mop pads and a large 750-ml dustbin to use in vacuum mode. The larger dustbin can go through several cleanings without needing to be emptied.
Review: Yeedi Mop Station Pro The biggest downside of the Yeedi Mop Station Pro is that it doesn't have a self-emptying dustbin and that it cannot perceive objects around it. As a result, you have to ensure the floors are clear of any clutter, large debris, and cables.
It does a great job of keeping my floors clean between deep cleanings, ensuring I don't have to mop as often as before.
View now at Amazon Roomba Combo j7+ Best robot vacuum mop for multiple flooring surfaces Beth Mauder/ZDNET Pros & Cons Self-emptying Smart Mapping feature Retractable mop head Noisy when self-emptying Pricey More Details Roomba Combo j7+ tech specs: Battery life: 110 minutes | Wi-Fi: Yes | Dimensions: 1.3 x 3.4 x 13.34 inches If your home has rugs, carpet, tile, laminate, or hardwood, the Roomba Combo j7+ is the two-in-one machine for you, thanks to its retractable mop head. You never have to worry about a dirty mop head getting dragged across your favorite rug because the Combo j7+ lifts the entire mop head on top of the robot when cleaning your soft flooring surfaces.
With iRobot OS Technology and PrecisionVision Navigation, the Roomba Combo j7+ knows to avoid furniture and electric cords. Plus, with its Pet Owner Official Promise (P.O.O.P.), it is guaranteed to avoid pet waste, or the company will send you a new one for free. It's self-emptying for up to 60 days, and, my favorite feature of all, it knows when the dustbin is full, even in the middle of a job. I can set the Combo j7+ to vacuum my entire house, and it'll empty as many times as needed to complete the job. This is a stand-out feature iRobot has mastered and makes cleaning up after my two dogs and cat a breeze.
Review: Roomba Combo J7+ The machine's PrecisionVision Navigation is part of the technology behind the retractable mop head arms. When the Combo j7+ encounters a rug or carpet, it lifts the head and strictly vacuums. This ensures that no ounce of water is getting on your carpets. Then, when it's time to go back to vacuuming and mopping, the retractable mop head lowers and gets right back to work. The technology is truly impressive.
View now at Amazon Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni The best robot vacuum mop for cleaning tight spaces Maria Diaz/ZDNET Pros & Cons 8,000Pa suction power Small, square design Intelligent AI obstacle avoidance Expensive Flimsy refillable tank handles More Details If you have furniture that sits lower or you have barstools/chairs that collect a lot of dirt underneath (shoutout to kids who are messy eaters), Ecovacs' Deebot X2 Omni is going to be for you. Its square design and smaller stature, 12.6 inches wide, means this robot can fit in more spaces than a lot of its competitors.
Thanks to its whopping 8,000Pa suction power, the X2 Omni blows the competition out of the water, being more than capable of vacuuming up hair, dirt, and debris on every flooring type possible. That's not all, though. This Ecovacs robot vacuum and mop is a self-cleaning, self-emptying, self-drying, and self-refilling two-in-one machine, taking all of the dirty work out of vacuuming and mopping. If you're in the market for a powerful yet smaller robot vacuum and mop, the Ecovacs Deebots X2 Omni comes highly recommended.
Review: Ecovacs Deebots X2 Omni View now at Best Buy View now at Amazon more buying choices Roborock S8 Pro Ultra Best robot vacuum mop splurge Beth Mauder/ZDNET Pros & Cons 6,000Pa suction Reactive 3D Obstacle Avoidance Stress-free system Expensive Only empties the dust bin at the end of the job More Details Roborock S8 Pro Ultra t ech specs: Battery life: 180 minutes | Wi-Fi: Yes | Dimensions: 21 x 20 x 19 inches Based on my testing, if you have more to spend, the Roborock S8 Pro Ultra is the best high-end two-in-one machine you can buy.
This is a self-washing, self-drying, self-emptying, self-refilling, and self-cleaning machine that completely removes the manual work from vacuuming and mopping. The S8 Pro Ultra is a device you can schedule to run according to your lifestyle and then not think about for a few days. It can tackle any surface in your home, including carpet, thanks to its 6,000Pa suction capability.
Review : Roborock S8 Pro Ultra The DuoRoller Riser brushes work to suction up all of the dirt, debris, and pet hair your home accumulates without clogging or tangling. The VibraRise 2.0 mopping system technology has high-speed scrubbing to clean your floors. The two systems can tackle even the dirtiest of homes when paired together. Of the robot vacuum mop combos I've tested, this one is top-of-the-line. I tested the S8 Pro Ultra during my German Shepherd's spring shed, and wow, it kept up with the clumps of hair and dust bunnies without any issue or much thought on my part.
View now at Amazon Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni Best robot vacuum mop primarily used for mopping Beth Mauder/ZDNET Pros & Cons Auto-empty Smart technology AI obstacle avoidance Pricey Have to take the mop heads on and off manually More Details Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni tech specs: Battery life: 150 minutes | Wi-Fi: Yes | Dimensions: 14.25 x 17.64 x 22.76 inches Ecovacs recently released the Deebot T10 Omni, a two-in-one machine that can tackle any flooring surface. With its 5,000Pa suction capability and turbo-rotating mop heads that oscillate 180 times per minute, you can rest assured that even your dirtiest floors will get cleaned. No matter how well I wipe my dogs' paws when they come in the back door, there are always a few prints and some mud left behind. The T10 Omni successfully cleans up after them. It also has an auto-washing feature: You can program the machine to clean the mop heads every 6, 10, or 15 minutes during a cleaning job -- making it even more enticing for homes with frequently dirty floors like mine.
Review: Deebot T10 Omni Separately, the Deebot T10 Omni both vacuums and mops well. However, the mop heads must be manually attached and removed before tackling carpets and rugs. The built-in AI knows to avoid your soft flooring surfaces when the mop heads are attached, so you don't need to worry there. But the manual intervention is something to remember if you expect your robot vacuum and mop to be hands-free. If you can live with adding and removing the mop heads manually as needed, the T10 Omni cleans fabulously.
View now at Amazon View now at Best Buy more buying choices Eufy RoboVac L70 Hybrid Best budget robot vacuum mop Eufy/ZDNET Pros & Cons Excellent value laser navigation Smart technology Disappointing battery life Not self-emptying More Details Eufy RoboVac L70 Hybrid tech specs: Battery life: 150 minutes | Wi-Fi: Yes | Dimensions: 14.02 x 14.02 x 4.02 inches The Eufy RoboVac L70 Hybrid is the best robot vacuum mop you can buy on a limited budget. Created by Anker, this model works with everything from hardwood floors to medium-pile carpets for greater flexibility. With BoostIQ Technology, this model can identify when to increase suction power.
It uses 2200Pa suction power regardless of floor type with iPath laser navigation and AI map technology. It incorporates Wi-Fi with mapping done in real time for more efficient cleaning. Skip certain rooms in your home and create custom maps with built-in anti-collision technology to avoid banging into furniture. When it comes time to self-empty, it notes its current position so it can return to its place and resume cleaning once it is emptied.
You maintain control with an easy voice control option, or you can use your phone. Either way, you can manually operate your robot vacuum mop if you don't wish to use the auto feature. With real-time viewing, you can customize cleaning types and set No-Go-Zones, which are room boundaries set to your preference.
View now at Walmart What is the best robot vacuum mop? The Roborock S7 MaxV Ultra is on our list thanks to its incredible performance and hands-free technology. It isn't Roborock's latest and greatest, but it is an incredible robot vacuum you can score at a lower price without compromising many features.
This is a bird's eye view of the best robot vacuum mops to see how they compare.
Model Price Battery life Dimensions Roborock S7 MaxV Ultra $1300 180 minutes 16 x 16 x 19 inches Yeedi Mop Station Pro $634 180 minutes 20 x 19 x 18 inches Roomba Combo j7+ $999 110 minutes 1.3 x 3.4 x 13.34 inches Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni $1500 210 minutes 17.44 x 15.51 x 20.75 Roborock S8 Pro Ultra $1600 180 minutes 21 x 20 x 19 inches Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni $950 150 minutes 14.25 x 17.64 x 22.76 inches Eufy RoboVac L70 Hybrid $399 150 minutes 14.02 x 14.02 x 4.02 inches Which is the best robot vacuum mop for you? It can be tough to identify the best robot vacuum mop for your needs when so many options are vying for first place. To find the best one for you, we have included our expert recommendations based on hands-on testing and research.
Choose this best robot vacuum mop...
If you want...
Roborock S7 MaxV Ultra The best robot vacuum and mop overall, thanks to its fully hands-free nature. The VibraRise Technology, ReactiveAI, and 5100Pa suction make this two-in-one machine worth the money.
Yeedi Mop Station Pro An excellent mop with spinning pads to effectively scrub hard floors. It doesn't feature obstacle detection, but its price point justifies the drawbacks. The self-cleaning mopping feature means you only have to worry about emptying and refilling the water tanks every few cleanings, as well as emptying the dustbin.
Roomba Combo j7+ The best robot vacuum mop for multiple flooring surfaces, with a retractable mop head that lifts when it encounters carpet or rugs to ensure no water gets on them. It's ideal for those who have multiple floor types in their home and want a self-mapping machine with a Pet Owner Official Promise and the option for Alexa control.
Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni A two-in-one robot vacuum and mop that can fit in tight places without compromising whatsoever on efficiency or capabilities. With up to 210 minutes of battery life and 8,000Pa suction power, this is a great option for a bigger home with carpet and hardwood floors.
Roborock S8 Pro Ultra The best robot vacuum mop money can buy. It's a splurge, with ReactiveAI 2.0 Obstacle Avoidance and intelligent mop lifting for excellent mopping capabilities. It has a 6000Pa suction and self-drying option that differentiates itself from the previously mentioned S7 MaxV Ultra. If you're someone who needs additional suction power but doesn't want to compromise on performance, this is the machine for you.
Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni An intelligent robot vacuum and mop that has oscillating mop pads, truly scrubbing your floors for you. This robot will work best in homes that have less carpet and rugs and more tile, hardwood, laminate, or vinyl, given that you have to remove the mop heads every time you need your carpet or rugs cleaned.
Eufy RoboVac L70 Hybrid The best budget robot vacuum mop providing excellent value with iPath laser navigation, AI map technology, and the option to customize cleaning types and set No-Go-Zones. It's perfect for those who want a versatile and budget-friendly machine that can handle various floor types How did I choose these best robot vacuum mops? While trying to determine the best robot vacuum mops, there were several factors I kept at the forefront of my testing and research that can also aid in your own search.
Floor types: Some robot vacuum mops are equipped to work with certain floor types, like carpet or hardwood. Others may have the ability to accommodate other floor types, like stone or marble. Before you buy, consider the types of flooring in your home and which vacuum is most appropriate.
Mapping: For full automation, it is critical that your robot vacuum mop has a mapping feature that can navigate its way through each room. You also want to consider an obstacle avoidance feature that can avoid things like furniture, wires, and even pet waste.
Battery: A robot vacuum mop is hardly worth it if it doesn't have the battery to keep it going. Consider the battery time before choosing the best robot vacuum mop, so you can be sure that it has enough power to clean your home.
Connectivity: Many of the best robot vacuum mops offer voice control, some even with Alexa. Others may feature an app that allows you to control your robot from afar, setting schedules, tracking progress, and controlling the machine's efforts.
How do robot vacuum mops work? Robot vacuum mops are a type of device that automatically clean your home. Using technology like sensors and cameras, these machines can memorize the rooms in your home and seamlessly navigate their way around while vacuuming and scrubbing your floors.
"Robot vacuum mops can navigate through your home, detecting and avoiding obstacles, and can clean under furniture and other hard-to-reach areas," says Laura Avila, a professional cleaner who runs Cleaning Fan.
 "Robot vacuum mops can be programmed to clean your floors on a regular schedule, which can help ensure that your floors are always clean and tidy." Is a robot mop worth the money? A robot vacuum mop requires an investment, which leads many homeowners to wonder whether it is even worth it.
Avila says yes. She shares, "Robot vacuum mops can be a worthy investment for many households, offering a level of convenience that traditional cleaning methods cannot match." Larry Snider, VP of operations of Casago SB Rentals , adds another consideration. "One of the major benefits of using a robot vacuum mop is that it can help to improve indoor air quality by reducing airborne allergens and pollutants. By removing these allergens from floors and carpets, the robot vacuum mop can help improve the air quality in your home. They can also help remove other pollutants, like mold and bacteria, by moping the floors with water and cleaning solutions." Plus, there is the issue of time. "These machines can automatically clean floors without requiring manual labor, which is a significant time-saver, especially for busy individuals who don't have much free time," explains Avila.
How much do robot vacuum mops cost? The cost of robot vacuum mops can vary significantly. While some are only equipped for certain floors, others may specialize in expanded features like advanced room mapping and voice control. The best robot vacuum mops range in price from $400 to $1,600, depending on the model that you choose.
Are there alternative best robot vacuum mops worth considering? With the Ecovacs Deebot T10 Omni launch, we took a look at other popular models from Ecovacs. This company is the manufacturer of several great robot vacuum mops, including the Ecovacs Deebot N10+ and the Ecovacs Deebot T9+.
Here is where to find them.
Best quiet alternative Ecovacs Deebot N10+ If noise is an issue, check out the Ecovacs Deebot N10+ for a great quiet robot vacuum mop.
View at Amazon Best alternative for navigation Ecovacs Deebot T9+ If you want a device that can easily navigate corners, check out this great robot vacuum mop for navigation.
View at Best Buy ZDNET Recommends The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you) The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick) The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money) Editorial standards Show Comments Community Guidelines Related The best robot vacuums for pet hair you can buy This all-in-one robot vacuum and mop is $200 off ahead of Black Friday The 26 best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
