The Verge homepage The Verge The Verge logo.
/ Tech / Reviews / Science / Entertainment / More Menu Expand Sam Altman fired as CEO of OpenAI In a sudden move, Altman is leaving after the company’s board determined that he ‘was not consistently candid in his communications.’ President and co-founder Greg Brockman has also quit.
| Comments Top Stories 1 1 What happened to Sam Altman? Alex Heath An hour ago | Comments 2 2 Screens are good, actually Allison Johnson Nov 17 | Comments 3 3 Apple pulls its ads from X after Musk’s antisemitic posts Richard Lawler 12:11 AM UTC | Comments 4 4 Joe Biden’s top climate adviser on how climate change will shape the US economy Justine Calma Nov 17 | Comments 5 5 The Verge’s guide to Black Friday 2023 Brandon Widder Nov 17 | Comments Today’s Storystream Feed refreshed Tech Tech Turmoil at OpenAI: after firing Sam Altman, what’s next for the home of ChatGPT? | Comments Gaming Gaming Sony announces The Last of Us Part II remaster for PS5 | Comments Tech Tech OpenAI co-founder Greg Brockman is leaving, too | Comments External Link Meta VP of engineering Don Block has been leading the operating system development for its augmented reality glasses project, codenamed Nazare , planned for release in 2024. Now Reuters reports the former Microsoft engineer is stepping down, citing a Meta spokesperson saying it was for personal reasons and that the upcoming product roadmap will not be affected.
[Reuters] Microsoft says it’s using GPT-4 to garner the “most pertinent insights” from webpages and write summaries beneath Bing search results. You won’t see these summaries beneath every search result, but you can check which ones are AI-generated by clicking the little arrow next to the result’s URL. If the description is written by AI, it’ll say “AI-Generated Caption.” External Link We have big ideas for the future of The Verge — and lot of them involve expanding our business into more subscription offerings like Command Line and Hot Pod.
 We’re going to take it slow, and we want to make sure we hear from our audience as clearly as possible, so if you’ve got a moment, please take our little survey ! We are not going to paywall the entire site, I promise — but there are lots of other ideas floating around, and we’d like to narrow them down.
[voxmedia.iad1.qualtrics.com] Most Popular Most Popular Sam Altman fired as CEO of OpenAI Jay Peters Nov 17 | Comments Windows is now an app for iPhones, iPads, Macs, and PCs Tom Warren Nov 16 | Comments Apple says iPhones will support RCS in 2024 Emma Roth Nov 16 | Comments A hefty stable Steam Deck update gives the Dock a brand-new feature Sean Hollister Nov 17 | Comments Google’s new Titan security keys are ready for a world without passwords Richard Lawler Nov 15 | Comments Twitter The former CEO was suddenly fired by OpenAI’s board on Friday, and in a post on X, he gave no details on what happened but said he’ll “have more to say about what’s next later.” Advertisement Advertisement Advertiser Content We only get one planet Sustainability often gets glossed over in the tech world. But true environmental stewardship demands we think deeper about the lifecycle of our devices — and the energy that powers them.
| Comments Hot Pod Hot Pod Ben Shapiro and the conservative podcasters after his throne | Comments External Link Denis Villeneuve’s Dune: Part Two was one of the handful of upcoming Warner Bros. releases whose premiere dates were delayed in response to the the now-concluded labor strikes.
But now that the industry’s ramping back up, Warner Bros. is getting a jump on things by moving the film’s premiere from March 15th to March 1st.
[Deadline] External Link The Summoner Names players use in League of Legends and Teamfight Tactics are being dropped in favor of Riot IDs on November 20th. Riot has a post detailing what’s going on and some changes for Riot IDs as a whole — including that you’ll be able to change your ID name every 90 days for free, which should address some criticisms from the original plan.
[Riot Games] Axios reports that Mustard is now a “partner” at the company, AGBO, but it’s unclear exactly what he’ll be doing in the role. Mustard announced he was retiring from Epic Games in September.
After bringing background removal to Paint , now Microsoft is rolling out the capability to Windows Photos. The feature is only available to Insiders for now, but it looks equally as handy as the one in Paint. You can remove a photo’s background with just a click and then even replace it with a solid color.
Gaming Gaming Half-Life gets a big update for its 25th anniversary | Comments The Verge’s 2023 holiday gift guide A selection of great tech and non-tech gifts aimed at the tinkerer, the creative, and the kid in all of us.
| Comments Deals Deals Filed under: The Verge’s guide to Black Friday 2023 Sonos speakers and soundbars are up to 25 percent off ahead of Black Friday | Comments Deals Deals Filed under: The Verge’s guide to Black Friday 2023 The best early Black Friday tech deals you can shop right now 1 more | Comments Tech Tech Tech Using your iPhone to start your car is about to get a lot easier Andrew J. Hawkins Nov 16 | Comments The Analogue Pocket now comes in a rainbow of classic Game Boy colors Ash Parrish Nov 15 | Comments A hefty stable Steam Deck update gives the Dock a brand-new feature Sean Hollister Nov 17 | Comments Deals Deals Filed under: The Verge’s guide to Black Friday 2023 The best Black Friday deals on headphones and earbuds | Comments Cruise continues to try to clean up the mess from a crash in early October that resulted in a woman being drug 20 feet underneath a driverless car. To hear more about it, you can check out my recent interview with Marketplace’s Matt Levin. We mostly spoke about the piece I wrote about the AV industry’s ongoing trust issues.
Is it the end of the green bubble ? Who knows! Probably not. Did Nothing make this happen ? LOL, no. We dug into all things RCS and the future of messaging, before talking about Bing, the Windows app, wearable graphs, and whatever the Playstation Portal is. At the end of the day, we’re all just bubbles, you know what I mean? Youtube Final Fantasy VII Rebirth is only a few months away, launching on PS5 on February 29th. In preparation, Square Enix has published a video recapping the events of Remake as well as a short guide on the who, what, and where of Rebirth.
I’d give the guide a pass if you want to remain totally unspoiled for when Rebirth drops. But the Remake recap video (I need to know why Square Enix has such an obsession with the letter “R”,) is a really good primer on the first game if you never played or, like me, simply forgot everything that happened.
Tumblr is betting big on going small The social network failed to hit the growth targets its new owner set in 2019. But were they ever compatible with what Tumblr does best? | Comments External Link The Department of Energy announced funding today for nine different heat pump projects across 15 sites in the US. This is the first round of funds stemming from Joe Biden’s authorization of the use of the Defense Production Act in 2022 to boost domestic manufacturing of clean energy technologies including heat pumps. It’s a more environmentally friendly appliance that’s starting to replace traditional heating and air conditioning.
[WIRED] Podcasts Podcasts Today on The Vergecast: what Apple really means when it talks about RCS.
David Pierce Nov 17 | Comments Today on The Vergecast: Spotify’s audio bundle and Disney’s cable bundle.
David Pierce Nov 15 | Comments Volvo CEO Jim Rowan thinks dropping Apple CarPlay is a mistake Nilay Patel Nov 14 | Comments The fight to save old video games David Pierce Nov 13 | Comments Today on the Vergecast: we talk about that new pin that wants to replace the phone.
Alex Cranz Nov 10 | Comments External Link In a memo sent to employees, Daniel Rausch, the vice president of the Alexa and Fire TV team, says Amazon is eliminating “several hundred roles” as the company looks to build up efforts in AI: As we continue to invent, we’re shifting some of our efforts to better align with our business priorities, and what we know matters most to customers — which includes maximizing our resources and efforts focused on generative AI. These shifts are leading us to discontinue some initiatives, which is resulting in several hundred roles being eliminated.
[GeekWire] Youtube Do you love the sound of the peel once you’ve built a PC? Well, Lian Li is providing a triple glass peel with its latest O11 Vision case, with tempered glass on the front, top, and left side. This beautiful fish tank case is all built on Lian Li’s dual chamber design, much like the rest of the popular O11 series. You can preorder the $140 case right now and it arrives at retailers later this month.
Filed under: We only get one planet The house that climate change built The effort to climate-proof our housing is running into a mess of problems, including aging housing stock, out-of-date zoning laws, and NIMBY-ism. Can we build our way to a better future? | Comments External Link An upcoming change spotted by TheSPAndroid shows a big “unsubscribe” button at the very top of promotional emails. Hopefully, that means no more scrolling to the bottom of lengthy spam messages just to unsubscribe.
[The SP Android] Interview Interview The creators of Monarch: Legacy of Monsters aren’t just trying to make a Godzilla spinoff show | Comments Deals Deals The Verge’s 2023 holiday gift guide for moms | Comments Science Science Science The incredible shrinking heat pump Justine Calma Nov 15 | Comments We only get one planet Kara Verlaney Nov 13 | Comments SpaceX cleared for second Starship and Super Heavy launch test Jess Weatherbed Nov 16 | Comments Twitter The EU Court of Justice confirmed that Apple has joined Meta and ByteDance in appealing its designation under the tough new rules. The European Commission labeled three of Apple’s products as “core platform services” in September.
It’s not been officially confirmed which of these Apple is contesting, but last week, Bloomberg reported that its filings would concern the App Store and iMessage.
External Link Ahead of Black Friday and a wave of holiday shopping, Amazon says it uses “advanced AI” tools to spot inauthentic product reviews on the platform.
Amazon has long had a problem with fake reviews, sometimes involving networks of thousands of people buying them via Facebook or WeChat. In 2022, Amazon sued the admins of over 10,000 Facebook groups in an effort to crack down on fraudulent reviews.
[US About Amazon] Keyboards Keyboards This is the keyboard that will convert you to the low-profile life | Comments 7 Verge Score Fitbit Charge 6 review: practically a Pixel band Google’s fingerprints are all over this casual fitness tracker.
| Comments Transpo Transpo Cadillac’s new Optiq compact electric SUV will be its cheapest EV | Comments Deals Deals Filed under: The Verge’s guide to Black Friday 2023 The best early Black Friday deals on Amazon devices | Comments Creators Creators Creators Normal Gossip is a big fat hit. Where does Defector go from here? Ariel Shapiro Nov 16 | Comments Twitter’s decentralized offshoot Bluesky now has 2 million users Umar Shakir Nov 16 | Comments The FTC warns influencers to disclose when they’re paid to be sweet on aspartame Wes Davis Nov 15 | Comments Cars Cars Filed under: We only get one planet Tires are saving us — and killing us, too | Comments Smart Home Smart Home Filed under: We only get one planet The secret environmental cost hiding inside your smart home device | Comments Tech Tech Discord is shutting down its AI chatbot Clyde | Comments External Link After a Naughty Dog staffer seemed to let slip news of the remaster, Insider Gaming reports on new rumors that it’s on the way. The PS4 game is only three years old and has already received a 60fps PS5 patch , but who can blame Naughty Dog for wanting to have a new release on shelves in time for the TV show’s second season ? [Insider Gaming] iPhone iPhone Bellroy’s iPhone 15 Pro case has a proper Action Button now | Comments Pagination More Stories Entertainment Entertainment Entertainment The creators of Monarch: Legacy of Monsters aren’t just trying to make a Godzilla spinoff show Charles Pulliam-Moore Nov 17 | Comments Mario’s big year continues with an excellent Super Mario RPG remake Andrew Webster Nov 15 | Comments Sony announces The Last of Us Part II remaster for PS5 Jay Peters Nov 18 | Comments Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do Not Sell Or Share My Personal Info Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status How We Rate and Review Products Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement The Verge is a vox media network Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2023 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved
