X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines How-to ZDNET's experts show how to maximize your tech with tips, tricks, and step-by-step instructions. We've figured it out, so you don't have to.
iPhone Do you have the latest AirTag firmware update? How to check How to send and receive iMessages on Windows Can someone tell if I block their number? How to record a call on your iPhone (and check if it's legal in your state) How to find out if an AirTag is tracking you How to AirPlay to a TV How to FaceTime on Android How to take a scrolling screenshot on Android and iPhone How to clear the cache on your iPhone (and why you should) How to use StandBy Mode on iOS 17 (and which iPhones support it) How to transfer data from Android to an iPhone: 2 simple and fast ways iPhone 15 eSIM: How to transfer your phone number to Apple's new iPhone How to easily transfer contacts from Android to iPhone How to unpair and pair an Apple Watch How to screen record on your iPhone Android How to transfer data from Android to an iPhone: 2 simple and fast ways How to turn on Private DNS Mode on Android (and why you should) How to FaceTime on Android How to transfer photos from your Android device to your Windows computer How to enable UWB on Android (and why you should) How to enable Find My Device on your Android phone (and why you should) How to enable Notification History on your Android (and why you should) Gmail App Passwords: What they are, how to create one, and why to use them How to take a scrolling screenshot on Android and iPhone How to use ChatGPT to create an app How to mirror your Android phone to a TV -- 3 easy ways How to record a phone call on Android in 3 easy ways How to easily transfer contacts from Android to iPhone How to clear the cache on your Android phone or tablet (and why you should) How to merge duplicate contacts in Android VPN How to set up a VPN on your router How to create Opera VPN bypass rules to access the content you need How to set up and use a VPN on your iPhone What is an IP address and how can you change it with a VPN? How to use the Opera VPN (and why you should) NordVPN vs. Surfshark: Which VPN is better for you? How to connect a VPN in Windows 10 How to find and remove spyware from your phone How to enable the free Google One VPN on your Pixel device Most Popular Is Temu legit? What to know before you place an order Wondering if Temu is a scam? You're not alone. Read on to find out everything we know about Temu to help you make an informed decision.
How to watch Super Bowl 2023: All your streaming options How to access Nike fitness classes on Netflix How to replace Windows with Linux Mint on your PC How to screen record in Windows 10 or Windows 11 Latest How to use Copilot (formerly called Bing Chat) Bing is no longer the AI-powered copilot for the web, Copilot is.
16 hours ago How to use ChatGPT to make charts and tables ChatGPT has some great chart-making tools. From histograms and heatmaps to word clouds and network diagrams, here's how to take full advantage of this powerful capability.
17 hours ago How to create a gradient transparency in GIMP If you're looking to add flair to your images by giving a layer a bit of transparency that fades from completely transparent to fully opaque, GIMP can do that.
18 hours ago How to set up Alexa's new Map View, and why you'll need one of these iOS devices Map View makes it easier to control smart home devices in different rooms, but it's not available for all Amazon Alexa users.
1 day ago This handy Google Docs feature is a must-have hack to help writers stay focused For Google Docs power users -- and the rest of us -- custom substitutions can help make creating documents far more efficient.
1 day ago How to turn on Private DNS Mode on Android (and why you should) Enabling Private DNS Mode on Android means your searches and other DNS queries are encrypted and safe from prying eyes. Here's everything else you need to know.
1 day ago How (and why) to subscribe to ChatGPT Plus OpenAI keeps unveiling new features and rolling them out to its Plus plan subscribers. Here's what you can get with a subscription.
1 day ago What are Microsoft's different Copilots? Here's what they are and how you can use them Microsoft has unleased a series of AI companions that can complete a wide range of tasks to make your life easier.
1 day ago How to refine your writing with LibreOffice's statistical analysis tool LibreOffice includes a powerful tool that can help improve your documents, so you're not overusing verbs, nouns, or adjectives. It even checks your work for readability.
2 days ago How to use ChatGPT If you want to use the most popular AI chatbot available, we'll walk you through how to get started with ChatGPT and get the most out of it.
2 days ago How to use Chromebook Quick Files (and why you should) If you're a Chromebook user and you're looking for an even more efficient workflow, then you need to add Quick Files to your routine.
2 days ago How to connect to a network share from your Chromebook If there are shared folders on your network, and you need to access them from your Chromebook, there's a very easy method of doing so that doesn't involve installing third-party apps.
3 days ago How to avoid losing your unused Google accounts next month Starting in December, Google will begin removing accounts that haven't been used in two years. Here's how to prevent yours from getting the heave-ho.
4 days ago How to install DNF5 on Fedora 39 for faster application installation and management DNF5 is the newest iteration of the package manager that helps users run software on the likes of Fedora Linux. Although Fedora 39 doesn't ship with DNF5 as the default, it's simple to install.
4 days ago How I made this great-looking table in Excel Excel provides some powerful formatting tools to help you produce visually compelling tables. Follow along to see how I created mine.
4 days ago Load More ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
