X Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan Go Most Popular See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Reviews ZDNET's experts thoroughly test and assess products and services to deliver unbiased reviews that help professionals work smarter and live better.
Tablets I did not expect this $180 Android tablet to be as impressive as it is You can buy four of these very fine Android tablets for the price of one iPad Amazon Kindle Scribe review: 7 months later, it's so close to perfect iPad Air (2022) vs iPad Pro (2022): How to choose iPad (2021) vs. reMarkable 2: Take note of these differences Dell's hybrid work concepts declare war on wires CES 2022: Trying out TCL's AR glasses, affordable laptop, tablets and more Get up to 75% off with these Walmart tech deals Nomad gear for Apple iPad 12.9 Pro: Elegant, superb quality leather cases and power accessories Google is getting serious about tablets again. We can prove it Best tech products of 2021: ZDNet's most recommended gadgets Apple's latest iPadOS, MacOS Betas include Universal Control and it looks amazing Samsung's Galaxy XCover 6 Pro and Tab Active 4 Pro are built to last Nokia T20, hands on: A good-value 10.4-inch Android tablet Samsung's Black Friday deals 2021: $899 Galaxy S21 Ultra, $599 70'' 4K Smart TV Laptops MacBook Pro vs MacBook Air: How to decide which Apple laptop to buy Apple's M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max chipsets: Everything you should know before buying This $499 Lenovo Chromebook Plus will make you reconsider spending so much on laptops This Acer laptop surprised me with one of the best OLED screen and webcam pairings I've tested in a while MacBook Pro (M3 Max) review: A desktop-class laptop for an AI-powered age How to connect your laptop to a TV quickly and easily Asus ExpertBook B1 B1500 review: A durable business laptop with excellent connections Dell's hybrid work concepts declare war on wires Lenovo's best Black Friday 2021 deals: Don't think twice for these Thinkpads The $99 Corsair HS80 RGB USB makes expensive podcast mics obsolete This sub-$100 power bank will easily meet your laptop charging needs, and then some Dynabook Satellite Pro C40-J-11I, hands on: A well-priced 14-inch workhorse This 2-port 4K KVM switch from IOGear makes switching between computers a cinch Lenovo IdeaPad Duet 5: Great Chromebook, great tablet The most innovative tech we reviewed in 2021 iPhone The Apple products you shouldn't buy this month: November 2023 edition iPhone 15 Pro vs. iPhone 14 Pro: Which model should you upgrade to? iPhone 15 Pro review: Coming from iPhone 12 Pro or earlier? This upgrade will wow you iPhone SE (2022) vs iPhone 11: Which should you buy? Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra vs iPhone 14 Pro Max: Which flagship should you buy? AirPods Pro 2 vs. Bose QuietComfort Buds 2: Which wireless buds will best rock your world? New iPhone 15 models compared: iPhone 15 vs. Plus vs. Pro vs. Pro Max iPhone 15 review: I spent a month with Apple's base model and found it more 'Pro' than ever Anker's latest GaNPrime power products: A roundup of safe, fast, and sustainable charging We're facing a colossal Apple environmental timebomb iPhone subscription: Does it make sense to lease your phone from Apple? Apple's latest iPadOS, MacOS Betas include Universal Control and it looks amazing Apple takes back top spot in smartphone market thanks to iPhone 13 Nomad cases for Apple iPhone 13: MagSafe, drop protection, good looks, and high quality Montblanc's $1,300 Wear OS smartwatch isn't all that smart (yet) Most Popular OnePlus' first-ever foldable makes Samsung and Google's look outdated – and it's near perfect The OnePlus Open undercuts the competition while offering, in many ways, a more compelling foldable experience. But its few compromises are just as noteworthy.
I did not expect this $180 Android tablet to be as impressive as it is Apple Watch Series 9 vs Ultra 2: Which flagship wearable should you buy? iPhone 15 Pro vs. iPhone 14 Pro: Which model should you upgrade to? Apple Watch Ultra 2 vs. Watch Ultra: Is it time to upgrade? Latest How to add MagSafe to your Android phone (and why you'll love it) MagSafe on Android sounds far-fetched, but it's very real thanks to these ingenious loopholes.
12 hours ago My go-to portable power bank has a magnetic superpower - and it's 20% off right now Baeseus' new power bank comes with both MagSafe charging for iPhones and a built-in USB-C cable for everything else. A Black Friday deal makes it even better.
1 day ago My must-have tech gadget for the fall and winter is not what you expect With the drier months upon us, the VocalMist Portable Nebulizer has kept my voice from cracking or even failing me during those important meetings, speeches, or events.
1 day ago I did not expect this mini soundbar to sound so big, and it's $150 off right now If you are limited in space but still want big movie-house sound, the MagniFi Mini AX from Polk will do you a solid.
2 days ago How to spot a fake data blocker that could hack your computer in seconds I have a handful of data blockers, but one is fake and loaded with a malicious payload. Here's how to figure out which is which.
2 days ago GPT-3.5 vs GPT-4: Is ChatGPT Plus worth its subscription fee? ChatGPT-3.5 is all well and good, but ChatGPT-4, at $20 a month via ChatGPT Plus, is a good deal smarter and more accurate.
2 days ago I spent $300 on these water-resistant holiday lights, and they're actually worth it My Halloween and Christmas displays will never be the same, but these lights are fantastic year-round, too.
4 days ago Finally, a rugged Android phone that doesn't look and feel like a brick Want a phone that's built to withstand extreme conditions but doesn't weigh down your pocket? The AGM H6 is the one.
4 days ago This $99 Fitbit tracker is a Black Friday deal that you won't regret buying Fitbit continues to perfect its trackers, and its latest Charge 6 model adds some key features that blur the lines with smartwatches. During Black Friday, you can snag on for just $99.
4 days ago Don't buy a Raspberry Pi 5 without also buying this amazing accessory Overclockers, rejoice! The Raspberry Pi 5 Active Cooler allows you to unlock lots of extra performance -- my extensive testing reveals exactly how much.
4 days ago This Acer laptop surprised me with one of the best OLED screen and webcam pairings I've tested in a while A 3K OLED display, 1440p webcam, and some nifty software features make the Acer Swift Edge 16 a fantastic option for users who value visual quality above all else.
4 days ago I did not expect this $180 Android tablet to be as impressive as it is If you're looking for a solid but cost-effective Android tablet, the Oukitel OT5 is a great option that won't break the bank.
6 days ago I tested the world's smallest smart robot vacuum, and it left a big impression Don't let its size fool you. The SwitchBot K10+ Mini robot vacuum is almost more capable thanks to its compact design.
6 days ago You should buy Samsung's most confusing phone this year for these reasons, and these reasons only It's not as premium as the Galaxy S23 series, nor is it cheap enough to be a budget phone. But for the right reasons, the Samsung Galaxy S23 FE may be the best phone for you.
6 days ago These $99 Sony headphones are almost as good as the XM5 for less than half the price Sony's WH-CH720N are a steal for shoppers looking for a great-sounding pair of headphones, and they're on sale this Black Friday.
1 week ago Load More ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
