Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan What are you looking for? Go See all topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines AR + VR Not just for gaming anymore, virtual reality and its more outward-looking cousin augmented reality are having a big impact on the tech industry and business.
Product Research Deep-dive, compare, decide Logitech's Chorus audio add-on for Meta Quest 2 promises 'new levels' ...
This remarkable iPhone-powered headset gave me a glimpse into Apple's ...
Here's everything Razer just announced at CES 2023 Matterport Axis review: An affordable system for capturing and creating ...
Meet the world's first 'Made for Meta' wireless earbuds Lenovo ThinkReality A3: Quality time in mixed reality High Fidelity invests in Second Life to expand virtual world Here's your last chance to buy an Oculus Quest 2 for $199 This ultraportable VR headset gave me a taste of Vision Pro at a fraction ...
The best VR headsets right now (and they're not just from Meta) Meta Quest 2 vs Quest 3: How to decide which one is right for you Meta's $500 Quest 3 is the mainstream VR headset I've been waiting for, ...
I tried Meta's Quest 3 VR headset and the mixed reality experience was ...
Analysis & Opinion Explore a fresh perspective Nvidia's Omniverse: The metaverse is a network not a destination A Forrester analyst's impressions from Mobile World Congress 2022 Chick-fil-A finally finds a way to make money on Sundays Meet the companies that will shape the metaverse Bored of office life? Here's how the metaverse could transform your future ...
Selling an emotion and a feeling: How these companies see VR as the future ...
I've been thinking about Apple's AR/VR headset, and I just don't believe ...
What is the metaverse, and who will build it? The metaverse's biggest unknown: Where we go from here Accidental teleports and virtual high-fives: What I've learned about ...
Is Apple sweating yet? These 4 companies just turned up the heat at CES CES 2023 preview: 4 big questions that will shape the week Best of CES 2023: 6 innovations that will shape the future We now work in an open source world; here's the data The day reality became unbearable: A peek beyond Apple's AR/VR headset I tried Apple Vision Pro and it's far ahead of where I expected Should you pre-order HTC's VIVE XR Elite headset? What could Apple's VR headset possibly do to justify its $3,000 price ...
Fitness isn't going to sell me on Apple's new AR/VR headset. Here's why Unity announces beta program for Apple Vision Pro: Let the AR/VR games ...
Samsung's answer to Apple Vision Pro is on track to be announced soon Apple's Vision Pro: A concept prototype with this enormous potential Are VR headsets safe for kids and teenagers? Here's what the experts ...
The iPhone 16 Ultra camera will integrate the biggest leap in photos ...
Latest Vision Pro led Samsung to reboot VR headset plans. It's now targeting ...
November 11, 2023 by Jason Hiner The iPhone 15 Pro can now capture spatial video for the Apple Vision ...
November 9, 2023 by Maria Diaz 5G still offers all this growth potential, despite early bumps November 8, 2023 by Eileen Yu FCC approves access to faster 6GHz band for AR and VR headsets October 20, 2023 by Maria Diaz Meta's $500 Quest 3 is the mainstream VR headset I've been waiting for, ...
October 14, 2023 by June Wan The best VR headsets right now (and they're not just from Meta) If you're ready to dive into virtual reality, look to these ZDNET-tested headsets to provide the most immersive, entertaining experiences money can buy.
The search for a 5G killer app that's 'bigger than connectivity' I tried Meta's Quest 3 VR headset and the mixed reality experience was next level Meta Quest 2 vs Quest 3: How to decide which one is right for you Apple's new dev program to provide support for iOS 17, VisionOS, and more This ultraportable VR headset gave me a taste of Vision Pro at a fraction of the cost MacBook pairing and hands-free controls on the HTC Vive XR Elite made working from a new home a lot easier.
September 27, 2023 by June Wan in AR + VR iPhone and iPad apps will be in Vision Pro App Store by default Developers haven't had a chance to fine-tune third-party apps for Apple's mixed-reality headset. That changes later this year.
September 6, 2023 by Artie Beaty in AR + VR Watch out, Apple: Meta and LG are building a new Quest Pro headset New reports suggest that LG will be doing much more than making the display for Meta's upcoming Apple Vision Pro competitor.
September 5, 2023 by Artie Beaty in AR + VR The iPhone 16 Ultra camera will integrate the biggest leap in photos since B&W-to-color: report Star Trek called it the holocamera and Apple Vision Pro brings it to life in a way that could be its most sought-after feature.
September 5, 2023 by Jason Hiner in Smartphones Meta has a secret VR headset that may have a key advantage over Apple's Vision Pro The headset, named Flamera, solves the biggest problem with mixed reality, and the solution is right in front of our eyes.
September 2, 2023 by June Wan in AR + VR Load More ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Manage | Log Out Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
