Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan What are you looking for? Go See all topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Developer Developers are at the heart of software innovation. From programming languages to coding trends and tools, you can find it here.
Product Research Deep-dive, compare, decide The best online computer science degrees AI chip startup Ceremorphic comes out of stealth mode The best online web development courses: Study webdev from home The 7 best cybersecurity certifications: Become a security expert Now you can play Doom on a Raspberry Pi Pico Chromebook Linux comes of age The best ecommerce website builders: Build your online store The best SQL courses: Top online classes New DevOps Bootcamp: Linux Foundation offers low introductory price Raspberry Pi at 10: The tiny computer with a giant impact Raspberry Pi Zero 2 W: New $15 board offers up to 5x the performance ...
The 6 best ethical hacking certifications: Hone your skills Why would Apple demote its former employees' titles to 'associate'? Raspberry Pi: Why they are so hard to buy right now, and what you can ...
Meta, AWS expand partnership, aim to enhance PyTorch adoption Best Java bootcamps: Where to learn Java (and why you should!) The 10 best coding bootcamps: Reputable coding camps compared The best Microsoft certifications: Top technical exams Raspberry Pi: New 'glorious' 64-bit operating system is available to ...
The best Raspberry Pi kits: Top starter and pro kits The 5 Best Entry-Level Coding Jobs to Start Your Career Full-stack web development bootcamps: Top programs and what to expect These are the absolute best Linux distros for programming The best web hosting services: Build your own website Analysis & Opinion Explore a fresh perspective Overseeing generative AI: New software leadership roles emerge Generative AI's 'revolution in productivity' is retrenching software ...
CIQ, Oracle, and SUSE unite behind OpenELA to take on Red Hat Enterprise ...
Math and business development: Why the 2 divergents skills matter in ...
The future of the web will need a different sort of software developer Developer decisions are changing your tech strategy, whether you like ...
Linus Torvalds talks Rust on Linux, his work schedule and life with his ...
Tech jobs: Recruitment is broken and it's adding to developer burnout Skills and security continue to cloud the promise of cloud-native platforms Codenotary introduces Software Bill of Materials service for Kubernetes UC Berkeley robot navigation could chart a new course for self-driving ...
The future of AI is a software story, says Graphcore's CEO Atlassian's Agnes Ro on how the role of developers has evolved Why do 81% of tech employers still require job candidates to have college ...
Businesses need DevOps to be competitive but must follow best practices ...
Building a tech career: a perspective from the world's largest aerospace ...
Linux vets unite behind CIQ, Rocky Linux's founding sponsor Learning how to code in a male-dominated field Coding skills are in demand, but companies want more from technology ...
Citizen developers are taking on more of the heavy lifting of enterprise ...
Low-code no-code market keeps growing, and that means shifts in technology ...
Why Twitter will fail shortly What the Securing Open Source Software Act does and what it misses Hiring or firing? Why job cuts at big tech don't always show the full ...
Latest AI is outperforming our best weather forecasting tech, thanks to DeepMind 12 hours ago by Tiernan Ray Tuning the Linux kernel with AI, according to ByteDance 1 day ago by Steven Vaughan-Nichols Fedoras in Space! Red Hat helps with NASA's Artemis Lunar missions 2 days ago by Steven Vaughan-Nichols Math and business development: Why the 2 divergents skills matter in ...
2 days ago by Joe McKendrick Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9.3 delivers more container support than ever 2 days ago by Steven Vaughan-Nichols Microsoft launches two new Copilots, adding AI-guidance for Service and Sales The new Copilots can automatically bring up answers for a call center conversation, or prepare a sales meeting briefing document with customer details.
Blockchain could save AI by cracking open the black box Microsoft unveils first AI chip, Maia 100, and Cobalt CPU Kubernetes made simple? Microsoft adds AI toolchain operator to Azure service Linux Foundation backs high-performance and exascale computing Rust in Linux: Where we are and where we're going next Step by step, the Rust programming language is moving deeper into the Linux kernel.
November 14, 2023 by Steven Vaughan-Nichols in Enterprise Software AI pioneer Cerebras is having 'a monster year' in hybrid AI computing The AI computer maker is finding a new role building massive computer clusters that are used for all kinds of AI and scientific tasks.
November 13, 2023 by Tiernan Ray in Artificial Intelligence These are technology leaders' biggest worries about using AI at work 70% of tech executives have introduced or are planning to introduce tools that use natural language processing in the coming year. But that doesn't mean they don't have concerns about such tools.
November 13, 2023 by Joe McKendrick in Artificial Intelligence Red Hat goes to the edge Edge computing and the Internet of Things meet at Red Hat's latest release: Red Hat Device Edge.
November 10, 2023 by Steven Vaughan-Nichols in Edge Computing Ubuntu Core Linux Developer Preview is ready for testing Spun off from Canonical's Internet of Things Linux, the immutable Ubuntu Core Desktop is moving closer to reality.
November 9, 2023 by Steven Vaughan-Nichols in Enterprise Software Load More ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Manage | Log Out Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
