Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan What are you looking for? Go See all topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Microsoft While the software giant continues pushing deeper into cloud-based software and services, its two cash cows - Windows and Office - remain strong.
Product Research Deep-dive, compare, decide GPT-3.5 vs GPT-4: Is ChatGPT Plus worth its subscription fee? ChatGPT vs. Bing Chat vs. Google Bard: Which is the best AI chatbot? The best stylus tablets for note-taking and drawing Microsoft just gave enterprising employees a kick in the Teams Engineers just love Windows 11 (says Microsoft) Microsoft to show how Windows 'powers the future of hybrid work' Ex-Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer admits he's not a man of courage Surface Duo 2 Pen Cover hands-on: Add a layer of protection and wireless ...
Dear Apple, we need a touchscreen MacBook. The Surface Laptop Studio ...
Microsoft's $599 Surface Laptop Go 2 is available for pre-order right ...
PC makers take the wraps off Windows 11 SE devices for education Microsoft's new accessories are geared toward the hybrid era of work Everything Microsoft announced at the October Surface event Best Microsoft Black Friday deals: $400 off Surface Pro 7, $200 off Surface ...
The best Microsoft certifications: Top technical exams Microsoft Surface Duo 2 review in progress: Two weeks in and I'm as confused ...
ZDNet Black Friday and Cyber Monday Buying Guide 2021 Jabra Evolve2 75 headset review: Optimized for hybrid work with ANC and ...
The best Microsoft business apps: Top 10 iPhone and iPad apps Microsoft To Do vs Google Tasks: The best list manager app for you Best gift card Black Friday deals: Stress less, spend less Brydge SP Max Plus review: A ruggedizing keyboard case for the Surface ...
Microsoft Surface Laptop 5 hands-on: This looks familiar...
The best Surface PCs: Microsoft's top devices reviewed and compared How-to Guides Practical tips, tricks, and advice for getting things done How to create a drop-down list in Excel -- quickly and easily How to downgrade from Windows 11 to Windows 10 (there's a catch) How to send and receive iMessages on Windows How to add a work or school account to Windows 10 or 11 How to remove duplicates in Excel How to unsend an Outlook email on a Mac How to freeze a row in Excel How to use ChatGPT to write Excel formulas What are Microsoft's different Copilots? Here's what they are and how ...
Is Microsoft cracking down on Windows 11 updates for unsupported hardware? How to copy colors with the Color Picker tool in PowerToys How to get Microsoft Office for free How to fix search glitches in Windows How to improve and enhance the Windows 11 Taskbar Why 'debloating' Windows is not a good idea (and what to do instead) Here's how 7 tech companies plan to honor Juneteenth How to move the Windows 11 Start button back to where it belongs How to import WMV videos into Final Cut Pro How to use the free PowerToys FancyZones in Windows and why you should How to land a tech role at Microsoft How to back up your files in Windows 10 and 11 with File History How to add an email signature in Outlook How to remap keys using Keyboard Manager in Microsoft's PowerToys How to create and manage Windows accounts for your family Analysis & Opinion Explore a fresh perspective Here's why Windows PCs are only going to get more annoying Windows 11: Not ready to upgrade? Do this instead How I put Linux on a Microsoft Surface Go - in just an hour Microsoft has a controversial suggestion for managers (some will hate ...
I asked a Best Buy salesman for the best Windows laptop. He had no doubts The messy Googlefication of the PC Southwest Airlines has excellent news for everyone (except Bill Gates) Microsoft researched what made employees truly happy. One result was ...
Azure's capacity limitations are continuing. What can customers do? Microsoft adjusts its consumer-strategy priorities (yet again) Google is exiting the IoT services business. Microsoft is doing the opposite Microsoft said to be ready to shake up the Windows update schedule. Again A Microsoft exec says tech, not people, makes employees really happy Big tech companies are pulling back on hiring. Is it time to worry? A Microsoft executive just revealed why no one may want a career at Microsoft There's no joy in Windows laptops, claims MacBook-loving Google employee How do I use my Microsoft 365 Business account to sign in to Windows ...
Microsoft is working hard to shut up the egotistical blowhard on your ...
Microsoft says this is the ultimate measure of employee productivity ...
Mary Jo Foley looks back on a momentous 16 years of covering Microsoft ...
What's next for Windows: Sweeping new strategy for cloud, ads, devices? Microsoft Teams and Zoom have a brilliant new competitor (if you can ...
A boss got angry at employees' Microsoft Teams habits. It didn't go well Microsoft asked 31,000 people what's changed about work. One result was ...
Latest Here's how Microsoft will change Windows to comply with EU laws 1 day ago by Ed Bott Hoping for a Windows 10 support extension? Microsoft just quietly crushed ...
1 day ago by Ed Bott Windows 10 PCs will get Copilot AI chatbot after all 1 day ago by Ed Bott What are Microsoft's different Copilots? Here's what they are and how ...
2 days ago by Sabrina Ortiz Microsoft Teams AI-powered makeover promises to clean up your messy office 2 days ago by Lance Whitney Bing Chat now goes by Copilot and feels a lot more like ChatGPT Microsoft makes its generative AI tool more of a standalone experience -- including its own web page, no Bing required.
Microsoft's latest AI offerings for developers revealed at Ignite 2023 Kubernetes made simple? Microsoft adds AI toolchain operator to Azure service GPT-3.5 vs GPT-4: Is ChatGPT Plus worth its subscription fee? Why Microsoft temporarily blocked ChatGPT from employees on Thursday Windows 11 FAQ: ZDNET's upgrade guide and everything else you need to know What's new in Windows 11? What are its minimum hardware requirements? What should you do if your system falls short of those requirements? We've got the answers to your Windows 11 questions.
November 6, 2023 by Ed Bott in Windows 11 3 ways Microsoft's new Secure Future Initiative aims to tackle growing cyber threats 'While threat actors seek to hide their threats like a needle in a vast haystack of data, AI increasingly makes it possible to find the right needle even in a sea of needles.' November 2, 2023 by Sabrina Ortiz in Cyber Threats How Microsoft's AI teaching assistant helps generate classroom materials With the help of Shiksha copilot, a teacher in Bengaluru, India, reports reducing her lesson-planning time from hours to minutes.
October 31, 2023 by Sabrina Ortiz in Artificial Intelligence Windows 11 version 23H2 isn't exciting, which is why you'll probably love it Microsoft just released the most boring new version in the 30-plus-year history of Windows. And that's just fine.
October 31, 2023 by Ed Bott in Windows 11 Microsoft Azure introduces Radius, an open-source development platform for multi-cloud computing Microsoft - yes, Microsoft - is introducing a new open-source approach to enable you to run your applications across multiple clouds.
October 27, 2023 by Steven Vaughan-Nichols in Cloud Load More ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Manage | Log Out Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
