Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan What are you looking for? Go See all topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Professional Development Develop personally and professionally with our guides to career advancement, productivity and time management, and emotional and interpersonal intelligence.
How-to Guides Practical tips, tricks, and advice for getting things done How to resize images and photos quickly and easily How to flawlessly answer the 'Tell me about yourself' interview question Starting a new remote job? Your week-to-week guide How to challenge imposter syndrome at work and show up with confidence Avoiding burnout as a recent grad Phone interview tips: How to land a second interview How to find a new job while still employed How to improve your focus while working from home Upgrade your job: 5 ways to get that career boost How to build a coding portfolio 5 soft skills for tech jobs Do's and don'ts for writing a standout cybersecurity resume How to land an Apple career: Inside secrets 15 tips to improve your public speaking skills How to get a tech job with no experience Getting an internship with a tech company: Your how-to guide 8 tips on how to present over Zoom like a pro How to write a software engineer cover letter that gets you noticed How to land a remote software engineering job Having trouble getting work done? The Pomodoro Technique can help How to get into tech from a food services career Your essential guide to improving emotional intelligence at work How to get into tech after earning an MBA How to write a standout software engineering resume Product Research Deep-dive, compare, decide The best tech resume template sites: Our picks 10 best networking sites for tech professionals Connectable, book review: How to fix isolation in the hybrid workplace The 10 best coding bootcamps: Reputable coding camps compared Duolingo review: Free, fun, easy language learning practice Analysis & Opinion Explore a fresh perspective Overseeing generative AI: New software leadership roles emerge Generative AI's 'revolution in productivity' is retrenching software ...
Math and business development: Why the 2 divergents skills matter in ...
Want flexible working or better benefits? Here's how to negotiate with ...
Boomerang employees could be your best bet for fighting the talent shortage Tech jobs: Recruitment is broken and it's adding to developer burnout MBAs and professional development: Do the benefits outweigh the costs? Planning to quit your job? 3 key things to think about first Tech workers are quitting. Pool tables and perks won't be enough to stop ...
Move over, quiet quitting: 'Quiet firing' is the new workplace trend ...
Remote working vs back to the office: Benefits are clear, but there could ...
Why do 81% of tech employers still require job candidates to have college ...
The security analyst: An expert in beginner's clothing Burnout, broken hiring and employees in a rut: No wonder workers are ...
Worried about quiet quitting? These Dos and Don'ts could stop it becoming ...
When it comes to tackling the skills shortage, employers are obsessing ...
Learning how to code in a male-dominated field 'Quiet quitting' has nothing to do with lazy employees. It's about rejecting ...
Coding skills are in demand, but companies want more from technology ...
Quiet quitting is becoming the new normal, and managers might need to ...
How to get promoted: Five ways to climb the ladder and have a successful ...
Low-code no-code market keeps growing, and that means shifts in technology ...
Hiring or firing? Why job cuts at big tech don't always show the full ...
How cloud is redirecting technology career paths Latest Math and business development: Why the 2 divergents skills matter in ...
2 days ago by Joe McKendrick Generative AI's 'revolution in productivity' is retrenching software ...
November 8, 2023 by Joe McKendrick Overseeing generative AI: New software leadership roles emerge October 30, 2023 by Joe McKendrick Want the most productive developers money can buy? Microsoft's got the ...
October 23, 2023 by Joe McKendrick Everything you need to work remotely: The best laptops, desks, monitors, ...
October 19, 2023 by Gabriela Pérez Jordán Want more productivity? Help everyone think like a developer Corporate or workplace culture is almost impossible to change. Instead, the head of Nasdaq DevOps calls for a systematic, engineering approach to software development.
LinkedIn just added AI-powered coaching and recruiting tools to make your job easier 5 ways to step up and become a manager One in four tech professionals are ready to leave their jobs, survey reveals 5 ways to boost your skills and increase your career opportunities 'The world is running out of developers', says Salesforce exec Developers with AI and automation skills are in ever higher demand. Here's why.
July 12, 2023 by Joe McKendrick in Developer Cloud specialists get the big bucks, but there's still a role for generalists Specialized cloud skills, such as AI and analytics, carry very hefty premiums.
May 16, 2023 by Joe McKendrick in Cloud Meet the post-AI developer: More creative, more business-focused We are seeing a massive paradigm shift in software development as a result of generative AI, says Amazon Web Services executive.
May 8, 2023 by Joe McKendrick in Artificial Intelligence These are the most in-demand tech roles in 2023 The estimated average salary of tech workers is $100,615, or double the median salary across all occupations.
April 18, 2023 by Joe McKendrick in Enterprise Software Generative AI is changing your technology career path. What to know Automation is creating a step change in the work of IT professionals, but there's still an important role for talented people with the right set of skills.
April 17, 2023 by Joe McKendrick in Artificial Intelligence Load More ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Manage | Log Out Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
