Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today Asia Australia Europe India United Kingdom United States ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan What are you looking for? Go See all topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Trending Best early Black Friday deals: Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and More Best early Black Friday Walmart deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple deals 2023 Best early Black Friday steaming deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Apple watch deals 2023 Best early Black Friday AirPod deals Best early Black Friday Sam's Club deals 2023 Best early Black Friday TV deals 2023 Best early Black Friday headphone deals 2023 Best early Black Friday robot vacuum deals 2023 Best early Black Friday tablet deals 2023 Best early Black Friday Amazon deals 2023 Best laptops Best VPNs Best TVs Best Headphones Best robot vacuums ZDNET Recommends Tech Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows Digital transformation: Trends and insights for success Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides See all Buying Guides Best all-in-one computers Best budget TVs Best gaming CPUs Best gaming laptops Best gaming PCs Best headphones Best iPads Best iPhones Best laptops Best large tablets Best OLED TVs Best robot vacuum mops Best rugged tablets Best Samsung phones Best smart rings Best smartphones Best smartwatches Best speakers Best tablets Best travel VPNs Best TVs Best VPNs More See all topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines Windows Since 1985, the evolution of Microsoft's flagship operating system has both driven and reflected the development of personal computing.
Product Research Deep-dive, compare, decide Windows and Mac software: My 11 essential apps and services PC makers take the wraps off Windows 11 SE devices for education Microsoft to show how Windows 'powers the future of hybrid work' Android on Windows 11: Is it worth the effort? Engineers just love Windows 11 (says Microsoft) Everything Microsoft announced at the October Surface event Innocn 27C1U 4K computer monitor review: Gorgeous, bright, quick to connect Innocn 40C1R ultrawide 144Hz monitor review: Plenty of room and fast ...
Acer Swift Edge laptop review: The lightest 4K OLED laptop yet Keychron Q5 keyboard review: Greater functionality for a greater price Microsoft Surface Duo 2 review in progress: Two weeks in and I'm as confused ...
Apple ruthlessly mocks a Windows laptop (but which one, exactly?) Is this the ultimate Windows docking station? Meet the Accell Thunderbolt ...
Want a touchscreen MacBook? This portable monitor makes it possible The best Surface PCs: Microsoft's top devices reviewed and compared Keychron K8 Pro mechanical keyboard review: An affordable trip back to ...
Forget the MacBook Air: This Windows alternative weighs less and does ...
Xubuntu is a highly configurable Linux desktop that can be tweaked to ...
The best computers: Laptops, desktops, PCs and more compared Unblock streaming services and secure your downloads with these Windows ...
Duolingo review: Free, fun, easy language learning practice The best cheap Windows laptops: Top picks under $400 This mini PC is a basically a Mac Mini​ for Windows users Not buying a new iPhone? This flash drive will give your old one a new ...
How-to Guides Practical tips, tricks, and advice for getting things done How to screen record in Windows 10 or Windows 11 How to take advantage of Microsoft OneDrive in Windows 11 How to downgrade from Windows 11 to Windows 10 (there's a catch) How to change your username in Windows 11 How to add a work or school account to Windows 10 or 11 How I made this great-looking table in Excel How to use Microsoft Authenticator as your password manager How to change your account password in Windows 11 How to recover deleted files in Windows 10 or 11 How to use Microsoft Remote Desktop on a Windows 11 PC How to transfer photos from your Android device to your Windows computer How to restore deleted or modified files with the help of OneDrive How to use Microsoft Launcher to access Microsoft apps and services on ...
How to jump to Microsoft Edge from Internet Explorer How to shrink your images with the PowerToys Image Resizer How to improve and enhance the Windows 11 Taskbar How to fix search glitches in Windows How to speed up your old Windows 10 PC or Mac Is Microsoft cracking down on Windows 11 updates for unsupported hardware? For $2, you can finally give your Mac an incredibly useful feature Windows ...
How to manage your security questions for a local Windows account How to take a screenshot on Windows How to rename multiple files in Windows with PowerRename How to require strong passwords on your shared Windows PC Analysis & Opinion Explore a fresh perspective Here's why Windows PCs are only going to get more annoying Windows 11: Not ready to upgrade? Do this instead I need a new iPhone. Is last year's model good enough? [Ask ZDNet] How can I keep junk email out of my inbox without juggling two or more ...
How do I keep two PCs in sync when they're in different locations? [Ask ...
Microsoft is selling tech pants for $150. (Wait, what are tech pants?) I asked a Best Buy salesman for the best Windows laptop. He had no doubts How do I get OneDrive under control? [Ask ZDNet] Microsoft said to be ready to shake up the Windows update schedule. Again There's no joy in Windows laptops, claims MacBook-loving Google employee How do I use my Microsoft 365 Business account to sign in to Windows ...
Does disk encryption slow down your PC? How to keep your credit card details from being stolen online You reset your Windows PC and ended up with Home edition. Here's how ...
Is your Windows license legal? Should you even care? Hate Windows 11? Here's how to make it work more like Windows 10 How to recover data from an old laptop if you've forgotten the password Can I transfer my Windows upgrade license from an old PC to a new one? What's next for Windows: Sweeping new strategy for cloud, ads, devices? Windows: Still insecure after all these years When will Microsoft end support for your version of Windows or Office? How to improve your Windows laptop's battery life 4 ways Windows people get MacOS wrong Is Microsoft really going to cut off security updates for your 'unsupported' ...
Latest Here's how Microsoft will change Windows to comply with EU laws 1 day ago by Ed Bott Hoping for a Windows 10 support extension? Microsoft just quietly crushed ...
1 day ago by Ed Bott Windows 10 PCs will get Copilot AI chatbot after all 1 day ago by Ed Bott How I made this great-looking table in Excel November 13, 2023 by David Gewirtz The best laptops: Apple, Dell, Microsoft, and more compared November 10, 2023 by Taylor Clemons Windows 11 FAQ: ZDNET's upgrade guide and everything else you need to know What's new in Windows 11? What are its minimum hardware requirements? What should you do if your system falls short of those requirements? We've got the answers to your Windows 11 questions.
The best laptop docking stations to upgrade your home office Windows 11 version 23H2 isn't exciting, which is why you'll probably love it Windows security: How to protect your home and small business PCs Multi-factor authentication: How to enable 2FA and boost your security Can you still get a Windows 10 upgrade for free? Microsoft's much-hyped free upgrade offer for Windows 10 ended years ago, but it took more than seven years before the company finally updated its activation servers. Here's what upgraders can expect now.
October 13, 2023 by Ed Bott in Enterprise Software 6 simple cybersecurity rules you can apply now How do you train others to avoid being victims of online crime? It's all about human behavior.
October 12, 2023 by Ed Bott in Security How to lock down your Microsoft account and guard it from attackers You can get a Microsoft account for free, but that doesn't begin to describe its value, especially if you use that account for crucial email and cloud storage. Here are seven steps to establish a solid baseline of security and protection.
October 12, 2023 by Ed Bott in Security How to tighten your security in Microsoft Edge Edge offers several options to help protect you from malicious websites and other online hazards.
October 12, 2023 by Lance Whitney in Security How to screen record in Windows 10 or Windows 11 Windows 10 and 11 both offer a screen-recording tool that's geared for gameplay, but it can record just about any screen activity. And Windows 11 has another option, too.
October 10, 2023 by Lance Whitney in Creativity Software Load More ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home.
Topics Galleries Videos Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNET Meet The Team Sitemap Reprint Policy Manage | Log Out Join | Log In Newsletters Site Assistance Licensing © 2023 ZDNET, A Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Cookie Settings | Advertise | Terms of Use
