Indaba Organisers Affiliated Communities Sponsorship Prospectus PROGRAMME Speakers Workshops Practicals Research in Africa Showcase POSTERS SHORT PAPERS AFRICAN DATASETS AI PRODUCT DEMOS Accelerating Growth Through AI/ML Ideathon Google Outreach & Mentorship Programme Guidance for staying in Accra Travel Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Recognising our Reviewers Code of Ethics and Conduct IndabaX Awards Kambule Doctoral Award Alele-Williams Masters Award Maathai Impact Award Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Reports Past Editions 2017 2018 2019 2022 Indaba Organisers Affiliated Communities Sponsorship Prospectus PROGRAMME Speakers Workshops Practicals Research in Africa Showcase POSTERS SHORT PAPERS AFRICAN DATASETS AI PRODUCT DEMOS Accelerating Growth Through AI/ML Ideathon Google Outreach & Mentorship Programme Guidance for staying in Accra Travel Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Recognising our Reviewers Code of Ethics and Conduct IndabaX Awards Kambule Doctoral Award Alele-Williams Masters Award Maathai Impact Award Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Reports Past Editions 2017 2018 2019 2022 Awards Key Dates Awardees will be notified in June 2023.
September 2023 – Awards announced at Indaba 2023 Nominations will reopen in 2024, please check back for eligibility details.
The Deep Learning Indaba awards several awards each year that recognise excellence amongst Africans in all areas related to African flourishing, innovation and AI.
The Kambule Doctoral Award recognises and encourages excellence in research and writing by doctoral candidates at African universities, in any area of computational and statistical sciences.
The Alele-Williams Masters Award recognises excellence by Masters degree candidates at African universities, in any area of computational and statistical sciences.
The Maathai Impact Award encourages and recognises work by African innovators that shows impactful application of machine learning and artificial intelligence.
The Umuntu Award for Services to the African Machine Learning Community is awarded at the discretion of the Indaba’s Board of Trustees to recognise individuals or teams who have gone beyond the call of duty to support our African communities.
These awards celebrate those who show the strength of African machine learning, and we encourage as many applications from across our continent as possible. For each of the awards, please refer to the links above for eligibility and selection criteria.
Applications are now closed Awardees will be notified in June 2023. Nominations will reopen in 2024, please check back for eligibility details.
English French KiSwahili Arabic Sponsorship Prospectus Kambule and Maathai Awards Copyright © Deep Learning Indaba 2017 - 2023. All Rights Reserved.
