Indaba Organisers Affiliated Communities Sponsorship Prospectus PROGRAMME Speakers Workshops Practicals Research in Africa Showcase POSTERS SHORT PAPERS AFRICAN DATASETS AI PRODUCT DEMOS Accelerating Growth Through AI/ML Ideathon Google Outreach & Mentorship Programme Guidance for staying in Accra Travel Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Recognising our Reviewers Code of Ethics and Conduct IndabaX Awards Kambule Doctoral Award Alele-Williams Masters Award Maathai Impact Award Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Reports Past Editions 2017 2018 2019 2022 Indaba Organisers Affiliated Communities Sponsorship Prospectus PROGRAMME Speakers Workshops Practicals Research in Africa Showcase POSTERS SHORT PAPERS AFRICAN DATASETS AI PRODUCT DEMOS Accelerating Growth Through AI/ML Ideathon Google Outreach & Mentorship Programme Guidance for staying in Accra Travel Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Recognising our Reviewers Code of Ethics and Conduct IndabaX Awards Kambule Doctoral Award Alele-Williams Masters Award Maathai Impact Award Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Reports Past Editions 2017 2018 2019 2022 Awards Applications are now closed. Awardees will be notified in June 2023. Nomination will reopen in 2024, please check back for eligibility details.
The Alele-Williams Masters Award recognises and encourages excellence in research and writing by masters candidates at African universities, in any area of computational and statistical sciences.
The Alele-Williams Masters Award celebrates African research excellence: its recipients are those that uphold Grace Alele-Williams’ legacy as a defender of learning, a seeker of knowledge, and activist for equality.
The award will be presented at the annual Deep Learning Indaba in September 2023. We welcome applications from students themselves, or nominations from their supervisors and mentors.
Eligibility Masters theses in the broad area of computational and statistical sciences will be eligible. This includes, but is not restricted to: machine learning, deep learning, artificial intelligence, statistics, probability, data science, information theory, econometrics, optimisation, statistical physics, biostatistics and bioinformatics, natural language processing, computer vision, and computational neuroscience.
The Awards Committee interprets the phrase “Masters thesis” to mean a dissertation in final form, i.e. approved by the student’s examinations board, e.g., viva examinations completed, public defence completed, corrected version submitted, or degree awarded.
The nominee must have been registered as a student and received their degree from an African university.
A dissertation may be nominated by the author, an academic who is in a position to comment on the candidate and merits of the work (e.g., Masters supervisor, thesis examiner, academic mentor, collaborators), a department chair or head of department.
Dissertations completed after 1 January 2019 are eligible for nomination.
Nominations are welcomed from any African country.
The dissertation can be in any language. For theses written in other languages, the Awards Committee may require English translations based on the availability of reviewers. Supporting letters and reports can be in any language, but we ask that English translations are applied for those written in other languages.
Applications are now closed Awardees will be notified in June 2023. Nomination will reopen in 2024, please check back for eligibility details.
Selection Criteria Dissertations will be reviewed for technical depth and significance of the research contribution, potential impact on theory and practice, quality of presentation, and its role in strengthening African machine learning.
Further Questions and Contact If you have any questions, or need clarification on any part of this call for nominations, don’t hesitate to contact us at awards@deeplearningindaba.com.
In Honour of Prof. Grace A. Alele-Williams Prof. Grace Awani Alele-Williams is one Nigeria’s most influential mathematicians and educators, and is remembered for her life’s contribution to mathematics education. She is widely recognized as a mother of Nigerian academia, as is often characterised as an African leader of firsts. She was the first Nigerian woman to receive a doctorate in any field, the first to hold the position of Associate Professor, and the first to be a vice-chancellor at the University of Benin. Many of the educational programmes she introduced are still in use today in several African countries. She was a tireless champion of the role of women at all levels in society, and especially in academia, characterised in her interview: "As long as we are celebrating a woman vice chancellor because she is the first or a woman chief judge because she is the first, then we have not arrived. We look forward to the time when we will have many women in such positions and we will be celebrating so many of them”. She was a member of the UNESCO Institute of Education’s governing council, a member of the African Mathematical Union Commission on Women in Mathematics in Africa, and the Vice-President of the Third World Organization for Women in Science. She received the Order of the Niger, was elected as a Fellow of the Mathematical Association of Nigeria and the Nigerian Academy of Education, and in 2014 was a recipient of Nigeria’s Centenary Award. The Grace Alele-Williams Masters Dissertation Award is established in honour of her contributions to the field of mathematics, in breaking down boundaries for women, and furthering the minds of her students.
Sponsorship Prospectus Kambule and Maathai Awards Copyright © Deep Learning Indaba 2017 - 2023. All Rights Reserved.
