Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Reece Rogers Gear How to Use ChatGPT’s ‘Browse With Bing’ Tool—Plus 6 Starter Prompts Illustration: akinbostanci/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save OpenAI recently made two big adjustments to ChatGPT.
 People who pay for the company’s $20-a-month ChatGPT Plus subscription can now prompt it to browse the internet, although ChatGPT is locked into Bing’s search engine. Subscribers can also ask the chatbot to create images using Dall-E 3 in beta.
This isn’t the first time OpenAI enabled its AI tool to browse the web. Earlier in 2023, subscribers could use web browsing for ChatGPT , labeled as “Browse With Bing.” The beta feature was pulled by OpenAI after users discovered that the chatbot could slip behind online paywalls.
Beyond paywall problems, it remains unclear how AI-assisted web browsing might impact how people find information, as well as disrupt jobs for online writers.
 Even though “Browse With Bing” has improved since the initial release, I still encountered error messages and some weird answers while testing it.
Do you want to use an internet-connected chatbot without shelling out $20? Two free alternatives to ChatGPT Plus are Microsoft Bing and Google Bard.
 Both of these chatbots can also search the web to answer your prompts.
As with any interaction with a generative AI tool, stay skeptical as you experiment with AI-assisted web browsing. Developers have still not found a way to prevent chatbots from hallucinating fake information.
 For anyone curious about using ChatGPT’s “Browse With Bing” tool , here’s some advice to help you get started and six example prompts.
Although the basic version of ChatGPT is helpful for a quick brainstorm session , you can use the “Browse With Bing” tool to mull over more recent information. What’s a cool movie to see this weekend? How can you improve your Wi-Fi network at home? What additional AI tools should you consider using? My prompt: Where should I go on a date this weekend in San Francisco’s Marina District? Would love to go somewhere with good cocktails that’s recently opened.
Link to ChatGPT's response.
“Browse With Bing” can be a decent starting point for comparing and contrasting the text on web pages. Maybe you want to see how the responsibilities and qualifications differ for two job listings. Or maybe you want to find the commonalities between articles on the same topic.
My prompt: What are the main similarities and differences between the reviews for Baldur’s Gate 3 on Kotaku and IGN? Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Sonos Deals Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals Nena Farrell Gear 13 Best Deals at Target’s Black Friday Sale Medea Giordano Link to ChatGPT's response.
Browsing the entire web can be daunting, so try giving ChatGPT parameters to search within. For example, if you want to focus on writers from a specific website as topic experts, ask the chatbot to only provide links from that site.
My prompt: Just focusing on links from Bon Appétit , what kind of chicken casserole should I make tonight? Please don't include jalapeños.
Link to ChatGPT's response.
( Disclosure: WIRED and Bon Appétit are both owned by Condé Nast.
) In a perfect world you’d have endless time to read every article, but that’s just not realistic. For the websites it can access, ChatGPT can summarize the main points of an article. While context and nuance will be lost, this could be a helpful tool for deciding whether to spend your time reading the piece in full.
My prompt: What are three key takeaways from “How Meta and AI Companies Recruited Striking Actors to Train AI,” by Eileen Guo for the MIT Technology Review ? Link to ChatGPT's response.
Discover multiple perspectives on a topic using the web browsing feature. After I mentioned an article that I read, ChatGPT provided multiple links for different viewpoints. While some were helpful, the chatbot occasionally cited sources that were too obscure to confirm as reputable.
My prompt: This CNBC article was interesting. What articles from other news sites should I read for additional viewpoints on this topic? https://www.cnbc.com/select/where-to-put-your-money-to-save-for-a-house Link to ChatGPT's response.
ChatGPT can help you find videos to watch as well as articles to read. Although Google’s Bard is better positioned to browse through the billions of videos available on YouTube, ChatGPT is able to recommend something to watch and channels worth following.
My prompt: I’m trying to learn how to surf. What YouTube videos should I watch to help me get started with this gnarly hobby? Link to ChatGPT's response.
You Might Also Like … 📧 Find the best bargains on quality gear with our Deals newsletter “ Someone is using photos of me to talk to men” First-gen social media users have nowhere to go The truth behind the biggest (and dumbest) battery myths We asked a Savile Row tailor to test all the “best” T-shirts you see in social media ads My kid wants to be an influencer.
 Is that bad? 🌞 See if you take a shine to our picks for the best sunglasses and sun protection Service Writer X Topics Search artificial intelligence how-to advice OpenAI ChatGPT Reece Rogers Reece Rogers Justin Pot Julian Chokkattu Julian Chokkattu Justin Pot Boone Ashworth Brenda Stolyar WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Black Friday Early Access: Up to 75% off + extra savings in cart Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
