Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Julian Chokkattu Gear The Best Android Phones Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED The Best Android Phone $499 at Amazon Best Flagship Phones $800 at Amazon (S23) The Smartest Phones (and Great Cameras!) $699 at Amazon (Pixel 8) Best Small Phone $700 at Amazon The best Android phone means something different to everyone—it's hard to find one that caters to every need. But chances are there's a smartphone that comes close to what you're looking for. From the bottomless pit of phone choices, these are our favorite Android handsets, including the Google Pixel 7A, our top pick. All the phones we've selected have their own advantages, and we've laid them out as best we can based on our extensive testing.
Check our other mobile buying guides, like the Best iPhones , Best Cheap Phones , Best Phones With a Headphone Jack , Best Pixel Phones , and Best Motorola Phones , for more picks.
Updated October 2023: We've added the Google Pixel 8 series, Asus Zenfone 10, and Fairphone 5.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get WIRED for just $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.
com , full Gear coverage, and subscriber-only newsletters. Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Photograph: Google The Best Android Phone Google Pixel 7A The Pixel 7A ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ) comes very close to being the perfect phone for everybody. It looks gorgeous (especially in the flashy Coral color). It has a powerful processor—Tensor G2—to run demanding games and zip through dozens of apps with ease. New in this model is an upgraded 64-megapixel camera and a 13-megapixel ultrawide that take better photos than most other phones its price (and some pricier ones too). The 6.1-inch OLED screen is a nice size that's not too large and not too small, and it gets decently bright. Don't forget the smooth 90-Hz screen too ! Then there's wireless charging and the IP67 water resistance rating. Did I mention it costs just $499? It will even last a while, thanks to the five years of security updates and three Android OS upgrades.
It does have some concessions. It lacks a headphone jack and a microSD card slot, so if those are important to you, look elsewhere. The battery life is just OK; on average it can last a day, but you'll need a power bank if you're a power user. And the fingerprint sensor isn't my favorite. But even with these flaws, it's easily the best bang for your buck.
Works on all three major US networks.
$499 at Amazon $499 at Target $499 at Best Buy Photograph: Samsung Best Flagship Phones Samsung Galaxy S23, S23+, and S23 Ultra If you want a no-compromises best-of-the-best kind of smartphone, then look no further than Samsung's Galaxy S23 range ( 9/10, WIRED Recommends ). Whether you opt for the 6.1-inch Galaxy S23, the 6.6-inch S23+, or the massive 6.8-inch S23 Ultra , these phones are chock-full of high-end features, from the powerful Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chipset that keeps even the most demanding games running beautifully to the fluid and bright 120-Hz AMOLED displays. Battery life has improved across the board, with the S23 comfortably lasting more than a day and the S23 Ultra hitting nearly two full days with average use.
The triple camera systems are the highlight, delivering remarkable results whether it's day or night, and there are plenty of modes and controls to get the look you want. They also offer some of the most stable video footage you can capture on Android phones, particularly with the Ultra. Speaking of, the S23 Ultra technically has four cameras—retaining the extra 10X optical zoom camera from its predecessor —providing versatility whether you want to photograph an ant up close or a faraway kid on a soccer pitch. It's the only phone in the trio with the embedded S Pen stylus if you like to doodle. (I like using it as a Bluetooth remote for the camera.) Best of all, the lineup will receive four Android OS upgrades and five years of security updates, which is nearly the best you'll find in Android. Once you have yours in hand, read our recommendations on what settings to change to get the most out of it.
Works on all three major US networks.
$800 at Amazon (S23) $900 at Amazon (S23+) $1,000 at Amazon (S23 Ultra) $800 at Samsung (All Models) Gear The Best Black Friday Sonos Deals Brenda Stolyar Gear 13 Best Deals at Target’s Black Friday Sale Medea Giordano Buying Guides The Best Binoculars to Zoom In on Real Life Scott Gilbertson Gear The Best Fitness Trackers and Watches for Everyone Adrienne So Photograph: Google The Smartest Phones (and Great Cameras!) Google Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro Google's flagship Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ) are more polished than ever, and they're officially the only Android phones that will be supported for a whopping seven years of software updates. (Google will have spare parts for the same length of time for repairs too.) The camera system on these two phones is, as always, excellent—the ultrawide on the Pixel 8 Pro is one of the best in the business. There's now secure Face Unlock, which means you can use your mug as biometric authentication to get into banking apps, but it's not effective in low light, so the fingerprint sensor is still present as a secondary option.
The reason to buy Pixel phones is the smart software features, like Call Screen, which thwarts robocalls and now even lets you respond to people without having to answer the phone. The Pixel 8 series focuses on smart image-editing software. With tools like Magic Editor, Audio Magic Eraser, and Best Take , you get a powerful suite of features to easily change up your photos and videos, whether that's by erasing unwanted objects in the background, removing annoying sounds in your videos, or just switching someone's face in a group photo to one where they're not blinking. It's nuts, kind of disconcerting but also fun, and it can be genuinely helpful. I just wish the battery life on these phones could stretch closer to two days. Be sure to check out our Best Pixel Phones , guide, where we've got case and accessory recommendations.
$699 at Amazon (Pixel 8) $699 at Target (Pixel 8) $999 at Amazon (Pixel 8 Pro) $999 at Target (Pixel 8 Pro) Photograph: Asus Best Small Phone Asus Zenfone 10 Want the smallest Android phone without compromises to performance or features? Get the Asus Zenfone 10 ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ). Its 5.9-inch AMOLED screen is compact, sharp, and buttery smooth thanks to the 120-Hz screen refresh rate.
 It's powered by Qualcomm's Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip, which is the flagship processor of 2023, and it will handle anything you throw at it with ease. Despite its small size, the Zenfone 10 delivers more than a day of battery life, and you also get perks like wireless charging, a headphone jack, and an IP68 water resistance rating. Oh, and a charging brick comes in the box! How thoughtful.
Asus is only promising two Android OS updates, but the Zenfone 10 will get four years of security updates, which is better than ever before. The cameras are the weak point—they're fine, just not the best you can find for the money—and I wish the screen got brighter. It's tough to see on super bright days. This phone also doesn't work on Verizon's network.
Works on T-Mobile and AT&T. Doesn't work on Verizon.
$700 at Amazon $750 at Walmart $750 at Target $750 at Asus Gear The Best Black Friday Sonos Deals Brenda Stolyar Gear 13 Best Deals at Target’s Black Friday Sale Medea Giordano Buying Guides The Best Binoculars to Zoom In on Real Life Scott Gilbertson Gear The Best Fitness Trackers and Watches for Everyone Adrienne So Photograph: Samsung A Midrange Alternative Samsung Galaxy A54 5G Samsung also has a great A-series phone, the Galaxy A54 5G ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ). It's a nice alternative to the Pixel. The 6.4-inch AMOLED screen can ratchet up the brightness like crazy, so you never have to squint, and the screen reacts more smoothly thanks to the 120-Hz refresh rate.
 It matches the Pixel on security updates but it offers an extra year of OS upgrades for a total of four. The reason it's not our top pick? Performance is good, but things can get a little stuttery when you try to juggle many apps at once; the Pixel 7A easily beats it in speed. But the A54's battery can last more than a day, sometimes close to two depending on usage, and the camera system holds its own, though the Pixel has an edge.
There's no headphone jack on the phone, no wireless charging, nor is there a charging brick in the box, but you do get a microSD slot if you want to expand the 128 GB of included storage.
Works on all three major US networks.
$450 at Amazon $450 at Samsung $450 at Best Buy Photograph: Samsung Best Under $200 Samsung Galaxy A14 5G Looking to save as much as possible? You'll be surprised at what you get with Samsung's $200 Galaxy A14 5G ( 9/10, WIRED Recommends ). There's surprisingly good performance—enough to run most apps without any annoying stutters—two-day battery life, and a camera that can capture decent photos. Unlike most sub-$200 phones in the US, this one has 64 GB of internal storage, a microSD card slot to expand space if you need it, a headphone jack, and even an NFC sensor, so you can use it to make contactless payments at retail shops. It's remarkable! The cherry on top? Samsung is promising two Android OS upgrades and four years of security updates, which is almost unheard of on a phone this cheap.
Works on all three major US networks.
$199 at Amazon $200 at Best Buy Gear The Best Black Friday Sonos Deals Brenda Stolyar Gear 13 Best Deals at Target’s Black Friday Sale Medea Giordano Buying Guides The Best Binoculars to Zoom In on Real Life Scott Gilbertson Gear The Best Fitness Trackers and Watches for Everyone Adrienne So Photograph: Nothing For the Aesthetic Nothing Phone (2) Nothing’s Phone (2) is its first phone in the US market ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ), and it's an excellent follow-up to the Phone (1).
 The price has jumped, but you now get a flagship-grade Snapdragon 8+ Gen 1 processor for great performance, a nice 120-Hz AMOLED screen, and perks like wireless charging and NFC for making contactless payments. But where it shines is, well, literally the back of the phone. The LED “Glyph” lights can flash when you get notifications or calls, and now can be set to light up only for app alerts you designate as important. No need to stare at the screen for a spam email anymore. Plus you can use the lights as countdown timers or even the status of your Uber driver.
Nothing is all about style, and this is reflected not just in the phone's hardware design but also in the slick Nothing OS interface. If you've been feeling like every phone looks and acts the same, the Phone (2) will be a breath of fresh air. Its flaws might give you pause, though—its cameras are solid but not as good as the cheaper Pixel 7A, there's no Verizon support, and it's only IP54-rated, so it's not protected from a dip in the pool. At least it will get three years of Android OS upgrades and four years of security updates.
Works on T-Mobile and AT&T. Doesn't work on Verizon.
$699 at Amazon $699 at Nothing Photograph: Asus Best Gaming Phone Asus ROG Phone 7 Most phones will do a perfectly fine job running the latest games, but the Asus ROG Phone 7 is one of the only handsets that elevates mobile gaming. (I tested the Ultimate variant.) It's a massive phone, with a 6.78-inch AMOLED screen and a 165-Hz screen refresh rate, and it's powerful thanks to Qualcomm's Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chipset and a whopping 12 gigabytes of RAM. (In a lot of ways, it's total overkill.) There are two programmable touch-sensitive buttons on the “shoulders” of the phone that you can use in any game! These top-tier specs get you some of the smoothest gaming performance available in a phone, especially if you pair it with Asus' AeroActive Cooler 7 to keep the phone as cool as possible. The screen pops, the haptic vibrations are sensational, and the speakers get loud.
I was able to pair it with Asus' ROG Kunai 3 gamepad, even if it's not officially compatible anymore. It lets you use the phone as a Nintendo Switch of sorts (or as a regular controller). Use Asus' in-game software to map virtual buttons to physical keys, drastically improving the experience of playing any mobile game. Best of all, the 6,000-mAh battery lasts me two full days with average use (less when you sprinkle in some gaming). There's even a headphone jack for when you don't want to futz about with Bluetooth, and a second USB-C port to charge it while gaming in landscape mode. Sadly, there's no Verizon support and no wireless charging, the IP54 water-resistance rating is lackluster for the price, and the cameras are just OK. Asus is promising two Android OS upgrades and four years of security updates—which is better than before but still behind its peers.
Works on T-Mobile and AT&T. Doesn't work on Verizon.
$1,000 at Amazon $1,399 at Amazon (Ultimate) Gear The Best Black Friday Sonos Deals Brenda Stolyar Gear 13 Best Deals at Target’s Black Friday Sale Medea Giordano Buying Guides The Best Binoculars to Zoom In on Real Life Scott Gilbertson Gear The Best Fitness Trackers and Watches for Everyone Adrienne So Photograph: Fairphone Best Eco-Friendly Phone Fairphone 5 The Fairphone 5 ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ) isn't the most exciting smartphone, and it doesn't support all the cell networks in the US, but it's the best choice for eco-conscious consumers. Older Fairphone models have received a rare 10 out of 10 on iFixit's repairability rankings , and there's nothing to suggest the latest will be any different. (The company has a B Corp certification !) The Fairphone 5 is manufactured ethically, and it's made of post-consumer recycled materials, like the 100 percent recycled plastic back cover. The battery is removable and replaceable, as are the camera, speaker, earpiece, USB-C port, screen, and more. You can replace all of these yourself (you need a screwdriver), and each phone has a five-year warranty. The company also promises to deliver five Android OS upgrades and eight years of security updates. Wowza. If you hate the idea of constantly upgrading your phone, this phone's for you.
The downside? Performance is just OK and the cameras are middling. It's not sold in the US, either. You can import it, but you won't get full network compatibility. I wish more manufacturers followed Fairphone's lead.
Not fully compatible with US carriers.
Photograph: Google My Favorite Folding Phone Google Pixel Fold The Pixel Fold ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ) is Google's first folding smartphone. On the outside, you have a wide 5.8-inch screen that you'll primarily use, and it actually feels like using a normal phone screen with zero compromises. When you have both hands free, open it up and you're able to take advantage of a 7.6-inch screen—a larger canvas that makes some apps nicer to use, like Gmail and its two-pane view, but it also allows for easy split-screen mode so you can multitask. This comes in handy more times than you'd expect.
Top that off with a great camera system, bright displays, good battery life, and smart software and you have a winning recipe. Unfortunately, this comes at an insanely high cost, and you probably shouldn't spend $1,799 on a smartphone. There's also cause for concern about durability with these folding devices. Still, I loved using this first-gen device; it's a great showcase of where phones are heading next.
Works on all three major US networks.
$1,799 at Amazon $1,799 at Best Buy $1,799 at Target Gear The Best Black Friday Sonos Deals Brenda Stolyar Gear 13 Best Deals at Target’s Black Friday Sale Medea Giordano Buying Guides The Best Binoculars to Zoom In on Real Life Scott Gilbertson Gear The Best Fitness Trackers and Watches for Everyone Adrienne So Photograph: Samsung Unconventional Tiny Phones Motorola Razr+ and Samsung Galaxy Z Flip5 Folding flip phones are the solution for folks who hate big-screen devices and want tiny things that can fit in the smallest pockets. Here are two standouts.
Samsung’s Galaxy Z Flip5 ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ) delivers a big-screen phone that feels more like a stack of Post-Its in your pocket when it's all folded up. How can you hate that? The new 3.4-inch Cover Screen lets you do more than before, like scroll through widgets, and you can browse a few apps too. The cameras are better than what's on the Razr+, and it has an overall better build quality, but the battery life isn't great.
Motorola's Razr+ ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ) has, in my opinion, an even more useful (and larger) front screen, meaning you can use almost any app, read notifications clearly, and check other widgets like the weather, news, and your calendar—all without having to open the phone. The cameras are sadly lackluster, and battery life is equally as middling as the Flip5. It's also not as water-repellent.
Works on all three major US networks.
$1,000 at Amazon (Flip5) $1,000 at Amazon (Razr+) Photograph: Samsung Honorable Mentions Other Good Phones We test a ton of Android phones. We like the ones below, but you'll be better off with one of the options above. If you haven't yet done so, check out our Best Cheap Phones guide for more.
Google Pixel 6A for $349 : Google's continuing to sell the 2022 Pixel 6A ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ) at a marked-down price (try not to pay more than $300). It's still excellent value and a worthy purchase. It's powered by Google's first-gen Tensor chip, which means you're getting some of the best performance for the money, and it supports all the same great (and helpful) software smarts as the flagship Pixel 6 series.
 It's got an OLED screen, a decent camera system, and lengthy software support. There's no wireless charging and it has a 60-Hz screen.
Google's Pixel 7 for $449 and Pixel 7 Pro for $649 : The 2022 Pixel 7 series ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ) are good buys if you can find them at these prices (or lower). The Pixel 7 gives you practically everything you'd want, from wireless charging to a 90-Hz screen refresh rate.
 The Pixel 7 Pro is even bigger with a 6.7-inch screen and it has a 120-Hz refresh rate. Both feature Face Unlock, but this isn't secure like the version on the Pixel 8, so you'll have to rely on the fingerprint sensor to access sensitive apps. Cameras are a big part of Pixels, and the Pixel 7 Pro outshines its sibling with an upgraded ultrawide with autofocus, enabling a Macro Focus mode for close-ups. Its telephoto camera has also improved, with excellent 5X optical zoom. These Pixels will receive four more years of security updates, which is great, but only two more OS upgrades, which is not as good as the latest models.
Samsung Galaxy Z Fold5 for $1,499 : The Fold5 ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ) remains an excellent big-screen folding smartphone. The cameras can take some great photos, the displays can get shockingly bright, and Samsung promises lengthy software support. But the introduction of the Pixel Fold has shown me how much more I prefer the wider front screen. The Fold5’s external screen feels too narrow, and some apps feel squished (though it's a little easier to grasp when closed). There aren’t too many changes from its predecessor , meaning it’s still a good idea to buy the Fold4 at a discount if you really want to enter the folding phone world.
OnePlus 11 5G for $600 : This OnePlus 11 ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ) is frequently sold at this price, so avoid the MSRP. It's a speed demon, but it isn't my first choice of phone, nor is it my second. It feels tremendously fluid and responsive, thanks to the top-end Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chipset inside (and all the other optimizations), and it recharges so quickly with the included adapter and cable—you can go from 0 to 100 in roughly 20 minutes. It's got a stunning 120-Hz 6.7-inch AMOLED screen, nice stereo speakers, and a reliable battery that easily lasts more than a full day. Even the Hasselblad-tuned cameras produce some nice results, and OnePlus is now matching Samsung with a promise of four years of Android OS upgrades and five years of security updates (though these are bimonthly instead of monthly). It's not all rosy though. There's no wireless charging, no support for millimeter-wave 5G, and the water resistance is only IP64 when nearly every phone at this price has an IP67 rating (rated to survive submersions). The overall software interface also isn't my favorite. But hey, at least it's pretty! It works on all three major US networks.
Sony Xperia 1 V for $1,398 : Sony's latest flagship phone ( 7/10, WIRED Review ) is super expensive. But it's one of the few smartphones with a 4K OLED screen, and it's rare to see a high-end phone with a headphone jack. There are a lot of toys for camera nerds, whether you want to capture a photo with manual settings or use Sony's Cinema Pro app to capture cinematic footage. You can even use the phone as an external monitor for your camera. It's a shame Sony has a short software update policy, and its camera system is still too clunky.
OnePlus 10 Pro for $450 : OnePlus' 2022 flagship phone is good but not great ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ), though it's a smart buy at this price. It's spiffy and has powerful hardware, including a 120-Hz AMOLED screen that gets bright, speedy performance, and some of the fastest wired and wireless charging you'll find in the US. (Yes, unlike the OnePlus 11, the older phone has wireless charging support). It'll get two more OS upgrades and three years of security updates. You should know that there's no millimeter-wave 5G here, just sub-6, which is odd for a flagship.
Lenovo ThinkPhone by Motorola for $700 : This Motorola phone is a collaboration with Lenovo's ThinkPad department, maker of the famed business laptops with the little red nubs. It's a pretty good phone all-around ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ), with features like flagship performance, two-day battery life, and an OLED 144-Hz screen, but it just doesn't measure up to its peers at this price.
Motorola Edge+ 2023 for $800 : A Motorola smartphone with contactless payment support, 5G, wireless charging, plus a promise of three OS upgrades and four years of security updates? Say it ain't so! The Motorola Edge+ finally matches its peers on several counts and exceeds them in some ways. It has a bright 165-Hz OLED screen, it's lightweight, and its 5,100-mAh battery easily lasts two days. The downside? The cameras are not as good as the cheaper Pixel 7A. Read our Best Motorola Phones guide for more picks.
OnePlus Nord N30 5G for $300 : This OnePlus phone ( 6/10, WIRED Review ) doesn't break the mold, and you should absolutely pay up for a Pixel 6A or any of the phones above if you can. But if your budget is really tight and this phone goes on sale, it does the job. Performance is good, and there's two-day battery life.
Gear The Best Black Friday Sonos Deals Brenda Stolyar Gear 13 Best Deals at Target’s Black Friday Sale Medea Giordano Buying Guides The Best Binoculars to Zoom In on Real Life Scott Gilbertson Gear The Best Fitness Trackers and Watches for Everyone Adrienne So Photograph: Samsung Before You Buy Buy Your Phone Unlocked We recommend unlocked phones in this guide. When a phone is sold as unlocked, that means it can be used on multiple wireless carriers and networks. When you buy a phone directly from your wireless carrier, usually on a payment plan, it often comes locked to that network. Carriers are legally required to unlock a phone upon request so you can switch networks, but it's a big hassle. Try to pay full price for your phone, or make sure it specifically says it's unlocked. If you feel it's too expensive to buy outright, that's a good sign you should find a cheaper model.
 Buy it from the manufacturer directly, or investigate your carrier's policies for unlocking phones if they're bought on a payment plan that requires you to use its network.
Verizon tips: Buying an unlocked phone is smart, but even if you do the smart thing, networks like Verizon will put up hoops for you to jump through. If you insert your SIM card but still have trouble receiving text messages or something else, contact customer service and have them enable "CDMA-Less roaming." This Motorola guide may help. The steps should be similar for other phones.
Sub-6 or millimeter wave 5G? Most new smartphones these days support 5G, the latest generation of network connectivity. If the phone you're looking at doesn't support 5G—don't fret! 4G LTE isn't going anywhere yet. Don't feel pressured to upgrade to a 5G phone or plan. That said, you do need a 5G-enabled smartphone if you want to make use of 5G speeds. The technology comes in two primary flavors: sub-6 and millimeter wave (mmWave). The latter is often exclusive to flagship devices, but even then, not every pricey Android phone supports it. We have a guide that explains it all , but in short, mmWave lets you access super-fast 5G speeds, though its range is severely limited and the areas you'll find it in are rare (think stadiums and airports, plus some spots in major cities). Sub-6 is much more commonplace, the type of 5G you'll run into most often. It has a broader range and delivers faster speeds over 4G LTE (but nowhere near as fast as mmWave). Coverage still isn't as widespread as LTE. It's ideal if the phone you're buying supports both (especially if you're paying $700 or more), but having sub-6 alone is also totally fine.
The best way to switch phones is to follow the setup prompts when you first boot up your new device—make sure you transfer data from an old phone via a cable. Some manufacturers, like Samsung, will suggest you download a proprietary data transfer app on your old device, like Smart Switch , and you should. It means less work for you—whether it's fewer apps you need to sign into or fewer icons you need to rearrange. Check out our tips on setting up your new Android phone for more.
Photograph: Peak Design Mobile Accessories You Might Need Kit Out Your New Phone We have case recommendations for a few popular devices, like Samsung's Galaxy S23 and S22 range or Google Pixel phones.
 It's smart to slap a case on these glass sandwiches and even a screen protector to keep the display free of scuffs and scratches. Here are a few other noteworthy accessories, including charging adapters, which many phones don't include anymore.
 Read our Best USB-C Cables guide for other recommendations.
Anker Nano 3 20-Watt Charger for $20 : This tiny charger will be all most people need to charge most smartphones. It's compact, reliable, and cheap, plus the prongs fold up.
Satechi 108-Watt USB-C Charger for $75 : A single-port charger can be annoying. This one from Satechi is slim enough to tote everywhere (with folding prongs), but it can fast-charge practically any Android phone at the highest speeds possible and still have enough power to juice up a laptop or tablet. If you want a USB-A and USB-C port, I like this 65-watt model from Nimble.
Peak Design Samsung and Pixel Everyday Case for $40 : If you have a Samsung or Pixel phone and you frequently mount your phone to a bike or scooter, you owe it to yourself to snag this case and Peak Design's bike mount.
 The case snaps perfectly into the mount, is dead simple to release, and has yet to fall off after years of riding. Peak Design also sells several other accessories you can attach to the back of these cases, bringing Android into Apple's MagSafe ecosystem.
Nimble Champ Portable Charger 10,000 mAh for $50 : This portable battery is small enough to leave in a bag but has enough power to fully recharge your phone once or twice. There's a USB-C and USB-A port, it delivers 18 watts of power, so it can recharge your tablet or phone, and it's housed in 73 percent post-consumer plastic with plastic-free packaging.
Nomad ChargeKey for $25 : When your phone dies, it's almost always when you forget to bring a charger or battery pack. The ChargeKey is a nifty solution—it's like clipping a tiny USB-C charging cable to your keychain. Just plug one end into your phone and the other into any kind of power source (a friend's phone or a charging adapter if you manage to find one), and you can top up your phone.
Choose a Wireless Charger : Our guide to the best wireless chargers includes dozens of models in varying colors, shapes, and materials, and even some designed for specific phones. Not every Android phone supports wireless charging, but it's a luxury you'll want to take advantage of. Take a gander at our guide for our favorites.
Reviews Editor X Topics Shopping buying guides smartphones Android phones Google Samsung Julian Chokkattu Julian Chokkattu Saira Mueller Nena Farrell Jaina Grey Julian Chokkattu Julian Chokkattu Simon Hill WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code Samsung coupon Code for up to 40% Off the store Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Best Buy coupon: Score $300 off select laptops VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
