Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best iPhone 13 Deals—and Which Model to Pick Photograph: Apple Save this story Save Save this story Save ready to upgrade to the iPhone 13 ? Well, you've got the choice of four iPhone models.
 If you're struggling to find the best deal, you don't know which model ( and color ) to pick, or you're wondering if you even need to upgrade, we've got you covered.
Below, we break down the differences between the iPhone 13, iPhone 13 Mini, iPhone 13 Pro, and iPhone 13 Pro Max, and have details on how to order one of these shiny slabs of glass (or multiple, we don't judge). Be sure to check out our Best iPhone 13 Cases and Accessories and Best MagSafe Accessories guides to kit your new phone.
Updated December 2021: We've added a deal from Visible and fixed some links.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get a 1-Year Subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
All four iPhone 13 models come with incremental changes over 2020's devices.
 Slightly longer battery life here, more internal storage there. That's why we don't think it's a sound investment to upgrade if you currently own an iPhone 12 , iPhone 12 Mini , iPhone 12 Pro , or iPhone 12 Pro Max.
That mostly rings true for anyone with an iPhone 11 or iPhone 11 Pro.
 Unless you're really into the boxier frame of the iPhone 12 and iPhone 13, have the cash to spare, and want to future-proof your device with 5G connectivity, then you're good with what you have. If you're dealing with poor battery life, the first step is to try a battery replacement , which can go a long way in extending the life of your device for a nominal fee. Got an older iPhone? Then have at it! Snag that iPhone 13 with no regrets.
Photograph: Apple The iPhone 13 has noteworthy improvements. Each model includes the A15 Bionic chip for slightly better performance, plus longer battery life, more internal storage, improved camera sensors, and new colors. The 13 Pro and 13 Pro Max are the first iPhones with ProMotion, a 120-Hz refresh rate on the display, which you can read more about here.
Just like last year, there's 5G support , but it shouldn't be the sole reason to get a new iPhone, since 5G availability is still rather sparse in the US and not that different from 4G LTE in day-to-day use. To see more differences between each model, Apple's comparison tool can help.
iPhone 13 ($799) : This is the iPhone most people should buy ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ). In addition to a 6.1-inch OLED display on the front, the back is home to a dual-camera system equipped with sensor-shift stabilization on the main sensor, meaning sharper low-light photos and less shaky videos. A larger image sensor helps take brighter photos at night, and you'll have access to Apple's new Cinematic mode, which essentially brings its popular Portrait mode to video.
iPhone 13 Mini ($699) : If you're looking for an iPhone that (literally) fits in the palm of your hand, the Mini's 5.4-inch display will do the trick ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ). But don't let its small size fool you. This iPhone packs the same features you'll find on the standard iPhone 13. One downside? Battery life struggles to last a full day, even if Apple says it's slightly longer-lasting this year.
iPhone 13 Pro ($999) : Those who want a new iPhone with all the bells and whistles should opt for the Pro ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ). The good news is that the iPhone 13 Pro and 13 Pro Max share the exact same features, so you're really just choosing a size. In addition to everything mentioned above, there's a telephoto zoom camera along with the other two. All of these cameras work with Apple's Night mode for brighter low-light photos, and you can film in Apple's ProRes video format for extra editing features—though this isn't available yet. You'll need the 256-GB model of each Pro phone if you want to shoot ProRes in 4K. Otherwise, you're restricted to 1080p. The ultrawide camera can also double as a macro camera, so you can take photos of subjects super close-up. The 6.1-inch OLED display has a 120-Hz refresh rate , which means everything will look and feel buttery smooth. You get new color options including gold, sierra blue, graphite, and silver.
iPhone 13 Pro Max ($1,099) : This is the phablet of iPhones. With a 6.7-inch display and a battery that lasts two and a half hours longer than its predecessor, the iPhone 13 Pro Max Apple's most expensive option ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ). It's ideal for anyone who relies on their smartphone for everything.
 As we mentioned, the features are the same as the smaller Pro. The battery is slightly larger than the 13 Pro, and it comfortably lasts a full day and then some.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Sonos Deals Brenda Stolyar Gear The 37 Best Black Friday Deals on Outdoor Gear Scott Gilbertson Apple is still selling the iPhone 11 ($499) , iPhone 12 Mini ($599) , and iPhone 12 ($699) , so if you don't need the latest tech and want to save as much money as you can on a new iPhone, stick with one of these older models, which are still great. Only the iPhone 12 and iPhone 13 range support the MagSafe accessory system. Read our Best iPhones guide for more details.
If the thought of signing a contract with a wireless carrier makes you want to scream, good. We always recommend you buy a phone unlocked. You won't run into any issues if you need to switch carriers or just have it work painlessly abroad. That said, Apple says all the carrier versions it sells on its website are unlocked—except for AT&T when you purchase on an installment plan.
You can also trade in an eligible iPhone to receive credit toward the iPhone 13. But check out our guide on selling your iPhone to get the most for your current device.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Sonos Deals Brenda Stolyar Gear The 37 Best Black Friday Deals on Outdoor Gear Scott Gilbertson The iPhone 13 Mini starts at $729 at Apple for 128 gigabytes.
The iPhone 13 starts at $829 at Apple for 128 gigabytes.
The iPhone 13 Pro starts at $999 at Apple for 128 gigabytes.
The iPhone 13 Pro Max starts at $1,099 at Apple for 128 gigabytes.
If you decide to go with a carrier version, you'll get $30 off the iPhone 13 and iPhone 13 Mini. That brings the Mini down to $699 and the standard 13 to $799. Here are a few promotions carriers are running on the iPhones.
AT&T is offering both new and existing customers up to $800 off the iPhone 13 and iPhone 13 Mini and up to $1,000 off the iPhone 13 Pro and iPhone 13 Pro Max when you purchase either on an installment plan with an eligible trade-in, and you need to be on an unlimited plan. It comes with a $30 activation/upgrade fee. The savings come in the form of bill credits.
T-Mobile/Sprint is offering up to $1,000 off the iPhone 13 Pro with an eligible trade-in device and if you’re on a Magenta Max or Sprint Max plan. The carrier will also throw in a pair of AirPods (second-generation) and a year of Apple TV+ for free. On any plan, you'll get up to $500 off with an eligible trade-in on the iPhone 13 Pro and up to $65 off AirPods (second-generation). You can also get up to $500 off the iPhone 13 series with an eligible trade-in. Those who buy any iPhone 13 model without an eligible trade-in device can get up to $800 off a second device when existing customers activate a new line (new customers will have to activate two). The savings come in bill credits.
Verizon is offering up to $1,000 off the iPhone 13 Pro series with select trade-in models (in any condition) when on any unlimited plan, but you'll need to activate a new line and you'll have to buy the phone on a monthly installment plan. If you buy an iPhone 13 at full price, you'll also get up to $800 off a second one when you choose any unlimited plan (also requires a new line). If you switch over to a Verizon unlimited plan from another carrier, you'll get up to $1,000 off in the form of a virtual prepaid Mastercard. You'll also get $150 off an Apple Watch ( Series 6, Series 7, and SE specifically) with the purchase of an iPhone on any plan. You'll see the savings in bill credits.
Visible is offering the AirPods Pro and a $100 virtual gift card of your choice—to a selection of stores from Visible's list—to new members who transfer their number from an eligible carrier with the purchase of an iPhone 13 model. You'll receive both the AirPods and gift card after activating your line and three full months of payments. For those in rural areas, Visible is our recommended carrier in our list of Best Cheap Phone Plans.
📩 The latest on tech, science, and more: Get our newsletters ! Amazon's dark secret : It has failed to protect your data Need to test a space suit ? Head to Iceland This digital bank is designed for the LGBTQ+ community Picture-perfect “graze boxes” are taking over Facebook Hacker Lexicon: What is a watering hole attack ? 👁️ Explore AI like never before with our new database 📱 Torn between the latest phones? Never fear—check out our iPhone buying guide and favorite Android phones Product Writer & Reviewer X Topics iPhone how-to Shopping apple phones Deals buying guides Reece Rogers Saira Mueller Julian Chokkattu Simon Hill Julian Chokkattu Brenda Stolyar David Nield Adrienne So WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Black Friday Early Access: Up to 75% off + extra savings in cart Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
