Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Magazine View previous issues MIT News Magazine The predictions issue Here is our annual list of 10 Breakthrough Technologies. Plus: why predictions matter and how to get better at them.
Letter from the editor View previous issue View next issue Features Categorized in TR10 2020 The advances that really matter this year Categorized in Computing We’re not prepared for the end of Moore’s Law It has fueled prosperity of the last 50 years. But the end is now in sight.
Categorized in Space How satellite mega-constellations will change the way we use space And wherever humans go, they’ll be taking satellite constellations with them to moon and Mars.
Categorized in Blockchain An elegy for cash: the technology we might never replace Cash is gradually dying out. Will we ever have a digital alternative that offers the same mix of convenience and freedom? Categorized in Computing Inside the race to build the best quantum computer on Earth IBM thinks quantum supremacy is not the milestone we should care about.
Categorized in Biotechnology and health If DNA is like software, can we just fix the code? In a race to cure his daughter, a Google programmer enters the world of hyper-personalized drugs.
Categorized in Humans and technology The professionals who predict the future for a living Everywhere from business to medicine to the climate, forecasting the future is a complex and absolutely critical job. So how do you do it—and what comes next? Categorized in Artificial intelligence What AI still can’t do Artificial intelligence won’t be very smart if computers don’t grasp cause and effect. That’s something even humans have trouble with.
Categorized in Humans and technology How big tech hijacked its sharpest, funniest critics Without design fiction, critical hits like Black Mirror would look very different.
COURTESY PHOTOS Categorized in Humans and technology Pollsters got it wrong in the 2016 election. Now they want another shot.
There’s a new crowd of would-be oracles, determined not to replicate the mistakes of their predecessors.
Also in this issue Five forces that will shape the future These are the big trends of the coming decades that need to be considered for any new technologies to be successful.
Categorized in Humans and technology Predictions for 2030 by people shaping the world At the World Economic Forum in Davos, the elite of the elite gather to hatch plans for the future of the planet. I asked some of this year’s participants to tell me one thing they think will happen by 2030 that most people don’t realize.
Categorized in Humans and technology 5 of the best books about prediction Predictions of any importance are never only about saying what will happen. Right or wrong, they also shape the course of events.
Categorized in Humans and technology Zooming Short fiction about surveillance.
Categorized in Humans and technology A brief history of the future This publication has been predicting what comes next for 120 years. Here’s what some of those predictions have looked like through the decades.
Categorized in Humans and technology The Google-IBM “quantum supremacy” feud In the first episode of our new podcast, Deep Tech, we dig into the story behind two little words that could change the world.
Categorized in Computing Past issues Updated The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
