Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Simon Hill Gear How to Set Up Multiple Monitors at Your Desk Photograph: imaginima/Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Trying to boost your productivity with a second screen? Want more immersive gaming sessions? Multiple monitors can help.
 Dual displays are great for multitasking and are easy to set up, but there are a few things to consider before you wade into a multiscreen world—whether you're on Windows or Mac.
Be sure to check out our advice on how to use a second monitor or screen with your laptop , and you can find recommendations for monitors, monitor arms, and desks in our Home Office Gear guide.
If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
Most computers can run dual monitors. But if you want to add a third screen or use two 4K monitors, check that your device is capable first.
Windows : The presence of several ports on your graphics card indicates it can likely handle multiple monitors. But you should check the maximum number of supported displays and resolutions. (You can see what graphics card you have by typing Device Manager into the Search bar, opening it, and then expanding Display adapters.
) Visit the manufacturer’s website to find the specifications for your graphics card, and look for a section titled Display Support or something similar that will list this info.
Mac : If you're adding monitors to a Mac, click on the Apple icon > About This Mac and double-click your serial number, then tap Command-C on your keyboard to copy it, go to Apple's website , and paste it into search. Click on Support to find the Technical Specifications and search for Video Support.
You can mix and match the types of screens you have at your workstation, though you'll likely want some consistency. The most common monitor size is 24 inches, but 27-inch screens are increasingly popular. Having the same size screens will be nice for symmetry. Just keep an eye on resolution when you buy. A 1080p screen on a 27-inch monitor might look too fuzzy.
We dive into orientation and arrangements below, but consider different types of screen arrangements. My current preference is a 34-inch ultrawide screen paired with a 27-inch screen in portrait orientation. As the name suggests, ultrawides are really wide and can deliver the experience of two screens, minus the screen's bezel in between. Pairing it with a screen in portrait mode means you get enough space on the ultrawide to run two full-size browser windows side by side, plus a vertical screen on the side for apps that benefit from it, like Slack and email.
Monitors come with a wide assortment stand designs. If you are going with the stand that comes in the box, check the measurements on the product page to ensure it'll fit nicely on your desk.
Alternatively, you can mount your screen to your desk and get rid of the stand, freeing up a lot of space. (You can also freely move your screen to various angles and positions.) Many displays support the VESA mount system. There are different sizes, and monitor arms have a screen size range and maximum weight they can support. Always check whether the monitor's product page mentions VESA support, and note the VESA mount size. When you buy an arm mount, make sure it supports the screen size and weight of your new screen.
To get the most from your computer and monitors, you'll need to think about which ports and cables to use. For Windows PCs, your choice is often HDMI vs. DisplayPort.
 Unfortunately, this isn’t as straightforward as you might expect. There are several versions of each connection type, each with different capabilities. For example, HDMI 2.1 supports up to 8K resolution at 120 Hz , DisplayPort 1.4 can deliver 8K at 60 Hz, and HDMI 2.0 is limited to 4K at 60 Hz.
For laptops, you might be looking at Thunderbolt, Mini DisplayPort, or even USB-C. Sometimes you will need an adapter or USB hub to connect an external monitor.
Check the technical specifications for your graphics card and monitor to find the best option for you. Remember that the card, monitor, and cable (and any adapters) you use must support the same technology and the same version. High-end monitors usually come with a selection of cables in the box, but some manufacturers annoyingly provide a single option that might not match the monitor’s top capability.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Sonos Deals Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals Nena Farrell It pays to do a little homework when shopping for HDMI cables , or any cable for that matter. Choose those with proper certification from the relevant bodies for DisplayPort , HDMI , Thunderbolt , or USB.
 If a cable is certified, it will deliver a certain level of performance, but there will likely be differences in durability and warranty. Don’t just grab the cheapest one that supports your chosen version. Read the reviews and make sure there are no issues.
For example, DisplayPort cables typically have a mechanical latch that prevents them from being tugged out easily. I have had terrible trouble with cheap DisplayPort cables getting stuck in ports.
This one has worked well for me, and we recommend this HDMI cable in our guide on choosing the right TV.
 I also recommend measuring, rather than estimating, the length of cable you need before you buy, particularly if you use a standing desk.
Windows via Simon Hill With your monitors and cables plugged in and ready to go, it's time to fire up your computer. Your new monitor will probably be recognized automatically, but you will want to tinker with the settings. Here’s how: Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Sonos Deals Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals Nena Farrell Windows : Right-click on your desktop and choose Display Settings (you can also click Start > Settings > System > Display ). You should see your displays numbered here, and you can click on Identify to see which is which. If your new display hasn’t turned up, try clicking Detect.
 You can simply click and drag your displays in this view to position them the way you want and match their physical orientation. Doing so will make it feel much more natural when you move your mouse from one screen to the other. Scroll down for options to set the main display, tweak resolutions, change orientation, and more.
You can also access these settings and sometimes more on a Windows computer by opening your graphics control panel (Nvidia Control Panel or AMD Radeon Settings, for example).
Mac : Click the Apple icon > System Preferences > Displays , and on your main display, click Arrangement.
 Click and drag displays into the position you want, matching their physical orientation. If you can’t see your new display, click the Detect Displays button (press the Option key if you don't see it). You will want to choose Extend Display (there is a Mirror Display option, too). That should be it, although you can change the resolution by selecting the Scaled option and choosing the one you want.
Windows via Simon Hill Here are a few final tips to help you get the most from your dream multiple monitor setup.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Sonos Deals Brenda Stolyar Gear The Best Early Black Friday Deals Nena Farrell Experiment with display settings in Windows or MacOS, or via your graphics card control panel, to try to match up the brightness and color settings for your monitors.
Windows will automatically extend your task bar across your monitors, but you can tweak its appearance and behavior. Right-click the task bar, and choose Taskbar settings to make changes. If you scroll down, there’s a Multiple displays section.
With an expanse of screen, it can feel like you are dragging your mouse for ages, so study these handy keyboard shortcuts to make your life easier.
A wallpaper to display across your monitors can tie everything together nicely. On Windows, find and save a high-resolution wallpaper or photo you want to use and then right-click on the desktop and choose Personalize.
 Choose your picture and then select the Fit you want ( Span is usually best for multiple monitors). On Macs, you'll have to cut the images up and apply them to each screen, or you can use an app like Fresco.
If you find that you keep losing your mouse pointer, you can find it by pressing the CTRL key on a Windows computer (if it doesn’t work, go to Settings > Devices > Mouse > Additional mouse options > Pointer Options , and tick the box that says Show location of pointer when I press the CTRL key ). On a Mac, just rapidly and continuously move your mouse (or finger on a trackpad) back and forth, left to right, and the pointer will grow bigger.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get a 1-Year Subscription to WIRED for $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com and our print magazine (if you'd like). Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
📩 The latest on tech, science, and more: Get our newsletters ! The infinite reach of Facebook's man in Washington Of course we're living in a simulation A big bet to kill the password for good How to block spam calls and text messages The end of infinite data storage can set you free 👁️ Explore AI like never before with our new database ✨ Optimize your home life with our Gear team’s best picks, from robot vacuums to affordable mattresses to smart speakers Contributor X Topics displays Windows Mac PCs how-to tips laptops Accessories and Peripherals Eric Ravenscraft Brenda Stolyar Julian Chokkattu Simon Hill David Nield Eric Ravenscraft Scott Gilbertson Simon Hill WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code Samsung coupon Code for up to 40% Off the store Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
