Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Samsung S22 Ultra Explained in 3 Minutes About Released on 02/10/2022 This is the Samsung Galaxy S22 Ultra.
I'm Julian, reviews editor for Wired.
I'm gonna walk you through a few new features in three minutes.
[upbeat techno music] Full disclosure, this is an expensive phone.
It's $1,200.
No one really needs to spend that much just to use your everyday apps, unless you want this.
[upbeat techno music] For all you Stylus stans out there, Samsung says it's improved the responsiveness of the Stylus since the Galaxy Note 20 Ultra, the last Samsung phone with an S Pen embedded inside.
There actually hasn't been a Note phone since, and I have no idea if we'll ever see one again.
The S22 Ultra can convert your handwriting into text that you can copy elsewhere in up to 88 different languages, though I'll bet it really depends on your penmanship.
Let's give it a go.
So, this is the Samsung Notes app, it's what you'll have to use to convert that text.
Tap that little Convert to Text button.
Once you press convert, there you go, you have, hello.
You could also hover the S Pen over the text and have it convert to a different language.
So, you can imagine if you're taking notes in class, you can write it all handwritten, convert it to text, paste it into Google Docs.
One thing I've never liked with the previous S Pen Samsung phones is palm rejection.
Instead of writing or drawing like this, now you've got to make this change, so the screen doesn't mistake your palm for your finger or Stylus.
My palm was resting on the glass and it didn't really interact with the screen, that's a win.
So, the Stylus can do a ton of other things, for example, you can actually use it as a Bluetooth remote, and you can do some really cool things like do a little spiral motion and it'll zoom the camera in a little bit.
Now, onto the camera.
[upbeat music] Last year's Galaxy S21 Ultra used a 108 megapixel sensor for the main camera.
It's the same in the S22 Ultra, but there's this new software feature called Adaptive Pixel.
Samsung offers the chance to take either 108 megapixel photo, which is great for daytime, or they would use a pixel binning process, which would create a larger pixel that could absorb more light, but you would end up with a 12 megapixel photo.
Now, Adaptive Pixel combines those two photos, so you get a hi-res image that can still look great even if you're in a dark room, or so Samsung says.
That's exciting if you're really into night photography, but of course, these hi-res images will take up more storage.
This isn't a new feature, but the S22 Ultra is still just about the only smartphone in the US that has a 10 times optical zoom camera.
Next up, screen improvements.
[upbeat music] If you have ultra in the name of a phone, it needs to be big.
At 6.8 inches, it's positively massive when you put it next to an iPhone 13 mini.
You might hate holding all that screen, but maybe it's just easier to see everything.
One last thing, there's also the S22 and the S22 Plus.
They have some small differences over the Ultra, like how they are smaller, and have different cameras.
Oh, and they also don't have the S Pen.
[Julian sighs] Well, that's the S22 Ultra in three minutes.
We'll keep you updated on the S22 Ultra on wire.com with all of our other tech reviews.
[upbeat techno music fading] How the Disco Clam Uses Light to Fight Super-Strong Predators Architect Explains How Homes Could be 3D Printed on Mars and Earth Scientist Explains How Rare Genetics Allow Some to Sleep Only 4 Hours a Night Scientist Explains Unsinkable Metal That Could Prevent Disasters at Sea Is Invisibility Possible? An Inventor and a Physicist Explain Scientist Explains Why Her Lab Taught Rats to Drive Tiny Cars Mycologist Explains How a Slime Mold Can Solve Mazes How the Two-Hour Marathon Limit Was Broken Research Suggests Cats Like Their Owners as Much as Dogs Researcher Explains Deepfake Videos Scientist Explains How to Study the Metabolism of Ultra High Flying Geese Hurricane Hunter Explains How They Track and Predict Hurricanes Scientist Explains Viral Fish Cannon Video A Biohacker Explains Why He Turned His Leg Into a Hotspot Scientist Explains What Water Pooling in Kilauea's Volcanic Crater Means Bill Nye Explains the Science Behind Solar Sailing Vision Scientist Explains Why These Praying Mantises Are Wearing 3D Glasses Why Some Cities Are Banning Facial Recognition Technology Scientist's Map Explains Climate Change Scientist Explains How Moon Mining Would Work Scientist Explains How She Captured Rare Footage of a Giant Squid Doctor Explains How Sunscreen Affects Your Body Stranger Things is Getting a New Mall! But Today Malls Are Dying. What Happened? The Limits of Human Endurance Might Be Our Guts Meet the First College Students to Launch a Rocket Into Space Scientist Explains Why Dogs Can Smell Better Than Robots A Harvard Professor Explains What the Avengers Can Teach Us About Philosophy NASA Twin Study: How Space Changes Our Bodies What the Black Hole Picture Means for Researchers Scientist Explains How to Levitate Objects With Sound Why Scientists and Artists Want The Blackest Substances on Earth Biologist Explains How Drones Catching Whale "Snot" Helps Research Researcher Explains Why Humans Can't Spot Real-Life Deepfake Masks Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About The Coronavirus VFX Artist Breaks Down This Year's Best Visual Effects Nominees How Doctors on Earth Treated a Blood Clot in Space Scientist Explains Why Some Cats Eat Human Corpses Voting Expert Explains How Voting Technology Will Impact the 2020 Election Doctor Explains What You Need to Know About Pandemics ER Doctor Explains How They're Handling Covid-19 Why This Taste Map Is Wrong Q&A: What's Next for the Coronavirus Pandemic? Why Captive Tigers Can’t Be Reintroduced to the Wild How Covid-19 Immunity Compares to Other Diseases 5 Mistakes to Avoid as We Try to Stop Covid-19 How This Emergency Ventilator Could Keep Covid-19 Patients Alive Why NASA Made a Helicopter for Mars Theoretical Physicist Breaks Down the Marvel Multiverse Former NASA Astronaut Explains Jeff Bezos's Space Flight Physics Student Breaks Down Gymnastics Physics What Do Cities Look Like Under a Microscope? Inside the Largest Bitcoin Mine in The U.S.
How Caffeine Has Fueled History How Mushroom Time-Lapses Are Filmed Why You’ll Fail the Milk Crate Challenge Why Vegan Cheese Doesn't Melt How 250 Cameras Filmed Neill Blomkamp's Demonic How Meme Detectives Stop NFT Fraud How Disney Designed a Robotic Spider-Man How Online Conspiracy Groups Compare to Cults Dune Costume Designers Break Down Dune’s Stillsuits Korean Phrases You Missed in 'Squid Game' Why Scientists Are Stress Testing Tardigrades Every Prototype that Led to a Realistic Prosthetic Arm Why the Toilet Needs an Upgrade How Animals Are Evolving Because of Climate Change How Stop-Motion Movies Are Animated at Aardman Astronomer Explains How NASA Detects Asteroids Are We Living In A Simulation? Inside the Journey of a Shipping Container (And Why the Supply Chain Is So Backed Up) The Science of Slow Aging How Nose Swabs Detect New Covid-19 Strains Samsung S22 Ultra Explained in 3 Minutes The Science Behind Elon Musk’s Neuralink Brain Chip Every Prototype to Make a Humanoid Robot Chemist Breaks Down How At-Home Covid Tests Work A Timeline of Russian Cyberattacks on Ukraine VFX Artist Breaks Down Oscar-Nominated CGI Why Smartphone Night Photos Are So Good Now We Invented the Perfect WIRED Autocomplete Glue How Everything Everywhere All at Once's Visual Effects Were Made How Dogs Coevolved with Humans How an Architect Redesigns NYC Streets Viking Expert Breaks Down The Northman Weapons J. Kenji López-Alt Breaks Down the Science of Stir-Fry How A.I. Is Changing Hollywood How Trash Goes From Garbage Cans to Landfills Veterinarian Explains How to Prevent Pet Separation Anxiety The Science Behind Genetically Modified Mosquitoes How Scientists & Filmmakers Brought Prehistoric Planet's Dinosaurs to Life All the Ways Google Gets Street View Images How Public Cameras Recognize and Track You How the Nuro Robotic Delivery Car Was Built Biologist Explains the Unexpected Origins of Feathers in Fashion Surgeons Break Down Separating Conjoined Twins Former Air Force Pilot Breaks Down UFO Footage Bug Expert Explains Why Cicadas Are So Loud The Best of CES 2021 Health Expert Explains What You Need to Know About Quarantines Scientist Explains How People Might Hibernate Like Bears Could a Chernobyl Level Nuclear Disaster Happen in the US? Neuroscientist Explains ASMR's Effects on the Brain & The Body Why Top Scientists Are Pretending an Asteroid is Headed for Earth Epidemiologist Answers Common Monkeypox Questions Bill Nye Breaks Down Webb Telescope Space Images How This Humanoid Robot Diver Was Designed Every Trick a Pro GeoGuessr Player Uses to Win How NASA Biologists Plan to Grow Plants on the Moon How FIFA Graphics & Gameplay Are Evolving (1993 - 2023) How a Vet Performs Dangerous Surgeries on Wild Animals This Heart is Not Human How Entomologists Use Insects to Solve Crimes Former NASA Astronaut Breaks Down a Rocket Launch Chess Pro Explains How to Spot Cheaters Why Billionaires Are Actually Ruining the Economy How to Keep Your New Year’s Resolutions for More Than a Week The Biology Behind The Last of Us English Teacher Grades Homework By ChatGPT All the Ways a Cold Plunge Affects the Body Spy Historian Debunks Chinese Spy Balloon Theories A.I. Tries 20 Jobs | WIRED Mathematician Breaks Down the Best Ways to Win the Lottery Why Music Festivals Sound Better Than Ever Pro Interpreters vs. AI Challenge: Who Translates Faster and Better? Why The Average Human Couldn't Drive An F1 Car Atomic Expert Explains "Oppenheimer" Bomb Scenes Every 'Useless' Body Part Explained From Head to Toe How Pilots and Scientists Are Thinking About the Future of Air Travel How To Max Out At Every Fantasy Football Position (Ft. Matthew Berry) All The Ways Mt. Everest Can Kill You How Fat Bears Bulk Up To Hibernate (And Why We Love To See It) Why Vintage Tech Is So Valuable To Collectors 8 Photos That Tell The History of Humans In Space How Every Organ in Your Body Ages From Head to Toe Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
