Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Adrienne So Gear The Best Fitness Trackers and Watches for Everyone Facebook X Email Save Story Facebook X Email Save Story If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Best All-Around $160 $100 at Amazon Runner-Up $270 at Amazon Best If You Have an iPhone $390 at Amazon Best Budget Tracker $100 at Amazon Like every piece of gear you wear on your body day in and day out, fitness trackers are incredibly personal. They have to be comfortable and attractive, sure, but they also must fit your lifestyle, as well as when and how you like to work out. Do you bike, row, or do strength training? Do you run on trails for hours at a time, or do you just want a reminder to stand up every hour? No matter what your needs are, there’s never been a better time to find a powerful, sophisticated tool that can help you optimize your workouts or jump-start your routine. We’ve tested dozens over the years to bring you these picks. While you’re at it, don’t forget to check out our Best Smartwatches and Best Running Gear guides.
Updated November 2023: We added the Fitbit Charge 6, the Garmin Venu 3, and the Google Pixel Watch 2, and Whoop's new AI coach. We also updated links and prices.
Special offer for Gear readers: Get WIRED for just $5 ($25 off).
 This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com , full Gear coverage, and subscriber-only newsletters. Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.
Photograph: Fitbit Best All-Around Fitbit Charge 6 Even as Fitbit has faced stiff competition from other manufacturers—most notably, the Apple Watch—its trackers have always won me over. They hit a very specific sweet spot between attractiveness, affordability, accessibility, and ease of use. They're perfect for everyone who isn't an ultra-marathoner or a semipro powerlifter trying to hit a PR.
This year's Charge 6 ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ) now has many integrations from Google, Fitbit's new parent company. You can now get directions from Google Maps, pay with Google Wallet, and control your music with a YouTube Music Premium subscription. You can also check your skin temperature and your 24/7 heart rate readings, take ECGs, and track your activities and sleep schedule in the newly Google-fied app. The battery life lasted well over a week, and the physical button is back, baby! Finally, did we mention that this all comes in a package that costs $160? Fitbit does still lock many of its best features behind its $10/month Fitbit Premium subscription, and it doesn’t feel quite as premium or attractive as a pricier Apple or Google Pixel Watch 2 ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ). But if all you want is a basic fitness tracker that won't break the bank, it's still hard to beat a Charge. Check out our guide to the Best Fitbits for more options.
$160 $100 at Amazon $160 $100 at Fitbit Photograph: Garmin Runner-Up Garmin Vivomove Trend One of the biggest pain points with fitness trackers is how each has its own proprietary charger. If you're used to the convenience of charging your phone and earbuds on all-purpose Qi wireless charging pads, hunting for your proprietary charger can be a real annoyance. The Vivomove Trend ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ) is the first Garmin to have wireless charging, and it works! Like 2022's Vivomove Sport ($180) , it has an analog watch face and connected GPS via your watch. Start an activity by swiping and tapping the analog watch face or waiting for Garmin's startlingly accurate Move IQ to pick it up. You get access to Garmin's most convenient fitness features, like incident detection, contactless payments, sleep tracking, and continuous heart rate monitoring. Garmin also has some of the most helpful comprehensive fitness algorithms available—I've always found its Body Battery metric to be startlingly accurate, even catching when I'm getting sick or getting PMS. The only downside is that the Vivomove Sport is much cheaper and looks almost the same. But you will probably make up the difference in six months when you don't have to replace the chargers.
$270 at Amazon $270 at Best Buy $270 at Target $270 at Garmin Gear 13 Best Deals at Target’s Black Friday Sale Medea Giordano Buying Guides The Best Binoculars to Zoom In on Real Life Scott Gilbertson Gear Just Got a Meta Quest Headset? These Are Our Favorite Games Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Top New Features in Apple’s iOS 17 and iPadOS 17 Julian Chokkattu Photograph: Apple Best If You Have an iPhone Apple Watch Series 9 People tend to hold on to their Apple Watches for years, and rightfully so—it is far and away the best fitness tracker if you have an iPhone. The best Apple Watch right now is the latest Series 9 ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ). It looks pretty much the same as every other Apple Watch, but it has the new S9 chipset for faster onboard processing of Siri commands, which improves battery life noticeably and theoretically provides more privacy for your sensitive medical data. It also has a new ultra-wideband chip that lets you precision-locate your iPhone quickly and accurately.
The watch also has a new feature called Double Tap, which borrows from Apple's accessibility learnings. The accelerometer, gyroscope, and optical sensor will detect the minute shifts as you tap your index finger and thumb on your watch hand twice to activate the primary button on your watch screen; it's nice for stopping and starting music or timers around the kitchen. It's compatible with WatchOS 10 , which has new watch faces, app redesigns, and more health-related features. You can also find most of WatchOS 10's updates on the second-gen Watch SE , but you won't get the more advanced health sensors like wrist-based body temperature sensing. Finally, this year Apple claims that the Series 9 and SE are carbon-neutral when purchased with specific loops. (We take this claim with a grain of salt ; however, the accessories are still very nice.) $390 at Amazon $399 at Apple $400 at Target Photograph: Amazon Best Budget Tracker Fitbit Inspire 3 If all you want is a simple health tracker that will track your steps and your sleep and let you know when someone is calling, the internet's marketplace is awash in knockoffs of this fitness tracker. For $80, you might as well get the original instead. This year, Fitbit released the latest version of its hugely popular Inspire, which thankfully ( in my opinion ) does not use Wear OS. Instead, it continues to use Fitbit's clear and easy Fitbit app, has a pedometer, tracks SpO2 and sleep, and comes with a wide array of watch faces and accessories.
It wasn't all easy-peasy. I had some connectivity issues and had to restart my phone when the Inspire 3 wouldn't update the time zone for a day or two. The Inspire 3 also regularly overestimated how much sleep I'd gotten, which made me mistrust the new Sleep Profile feature. For two months, I had a chronic nighttime cough; the Inspire 3 regularly logged me at seven hours a night because I was lying still when switching to a more sensitive fitness tracker put me at a much more accurate five. However, if you have no health issues, it is more reliable and accessible than a knockoff Inspire 3, and Fitbit also regularly puts its trackers on sale.
$100 at Amazon $100 at Best Buy $100 at Target Gear 13 Best Deals at Target’s Black Friday Sale Medea Giordano Buying Guides The Best Binoculars to Zoom In on Real Life Scott Gilbertson Gear Just Got a Meta Quest Headset? These Are Our Favorite Games Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Top New Features in Apple’s iOS 17 and iPadOS 17 Julian Chokkattu Photograph: Garmin Best Running Watch Garmin Forerunner 255 Garmin's Forerunner line has long been the best GPS-enabled fitness tracker for runners, and the midrange Forerunner 255 ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ) offers an incredible value for the number of features it offers in Garmin's lineup. Do you want a feature? It probably has it, like multiband GPS support and a barometric altimeter, a compass, improved sleep tracking, and Bluetooth compatibility with a number of heart rate monitors. The battery life is incredible—WIRED reviewer Scott Gilbertson estimates it at about 30 hours of continuous use—and you can extend the battery life even further by turning off features like continuous Pulse Ox measuring. He especially liked Morning Report, which includes Body Battery as well as a daily greeting, the weather, and other tidbits, much like what Apple offers.
It's also worth noting here that the Forerunner line is quite extensive and meets a variety of needs. A beginning runner or triathlete will probably be happy with the cheaper and more basic Forerunner 35 ($190) , while the experienced triathlete will want the Forerunner 945 ($600).
 Older models also retain their value and go on sale all the time.
$350 at Amazon $400 at Best Buy $350 at Target $350 at Garmin Photograph: Samsung Best for Android Owners Samsung Galaxy Watch6 and Watch6 Classic Unlike last year’s Galaxy Watch5 , this year’s Watch6 Classic brings back the fabulous, clicky, rotating bezel ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ). It’s fun and tactile and not a feature that you’ll find on many other smartwatches and fitness trackers. Other than that, it doesn’t look or feel too terribly different from the Watch5, which is a good thing. The Watch6 Classic comes in a 43- or 47-mm case, and the standard Watch6, which doesn't have the mechanical rotating bezel, is available in 40- and 44-mm cases.
The Watch6 runs Wear OS, which means you have access to Google Maps and Google Assistant, and it also has access to Samsung’s fairly robust health features. In addition to the usual suite of SpO 2 measurements, auto-workout detection, and sleep tracking, it now has FDA-cleared irregular heart rate notifications and blood pressure monitoring (the latter is not available in the US nor cleared by the FDA). Some features are also restricted to users who pair the watch with Samsung phones, rather than other Android phones, like the ECG. If you prioritize design, you might want to stick with a Pixel Watch; if you don’t have a Samsung phone, you might want to stick to a Garmin. All that said, It’s a fairly capable watch with a fun party trick.
★ Alternative: Stick to a Garmin, you say? Garmin's entry in this category is the Venu 3 ($470) , which has a stainless steel bezel, Corning Gorilla Glass for the lens, and two amazing weeks for battery life. It has Garmin's multi-band satellite capabilities for workout tracking, along with Garmin's killer proprietary health software, which now includes a new sleep coach with nap detection, along with Morning Report and Body Battery. However, it is pricey, does not have temperature sensing, and the onboard mic and speakers sound pretty terrible.
$300 at Samsung (Watch6) $300 at Amazon (Watch6) $430 at Samsung (Watch6 Classic) $430 at Amazon (Watch6 Classic) Gear 13 Best Deals at Target’s Black Friday Sale Medea Giordano Buying Guides The Best Binoculars to Zoom In on Real Life Scott Gilbertson Gear Just Got a Meta Quest Headset? These Are Our Favorite Games Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Top New Features in Apple’s iOS 17 and iPadOS 17 Julian Chokkattu Photograph: Google Best for Wear OS Google Pixel Watch 2 For all its faults, the Google Pixel Watch 2 ( 7/10, WIRED Recommends ) is by far the most attractive fitness tracker in this lineup and the hardest to take off my wrist. This year's iteration was everything that reviews editor Julian Chokkattu wanted to see in last year's release. It ships with Wear 4, Google's latest operating system, and has a speedy processor which makes it easy to track health metrics and view them in the lovely updated Fitbit app. Those now include electrocardiogram readings, sleep tracking, heart rate readings, and blood-oxygen measurements, along with a new feature borrowed from Fitbit called Body Response which uses an electrodermal activity sensor (cEDA), along with heart rate and skin temperature, to tell you to take a walk when you're stressed.
It does require daily charging with a new proprietary charger—no, you cannot use last year's charger—and it still requires daily charging. It's just annoying when you can seed every home and office with 3-in-1 Apple chargers.
$350 at Amazon $350 at Best Buy $350 at Target Photograph: Garmin Best Outdoor Watch Garmin Epix Pro (Gen 2) This year, Garmin again released updates to its two high-end sports watches, the Epix Pro ($900) and the Fenix 7 Pro ($900).
 Last year, the limited battery life and huge case on the Epix were off-putting, but now it comes in three sizes and with a whopping two weeks of battery life. It's now one of my favorite sports watches ( 8/10, WIRED Review ).
The main difference is the screen. The Epix still has the bright AMOLED display, while the Fenix 7 Pro has a less bright memory-in-pixel display. The Fenix also has the option for solar charging, which extends the battery life quite a bit, but I have found that the Epix lasts long enough for a week of camping. The AMOLED is noticeably clearer and brighter, which makes a difference when you're running and climbing outside, and it has useful features like a flashlight and redshift mode for training outside at night. For runners, there's also a new Up Ahead feature that lets you see the closest points of interest and a new endurance score to … well, check out your endurance if the zillions of other Garmin proprietary metrics aren't doing a good enough job of assessing what great shape you’re in.
★ Alternative: I have steadily grown to appreciate Coros' sports watches, which often eschew bright screens for more affordable price points and thoughtful features like locking mechanisms that prevent me from stopping or starting tracking when I'm snowboarding and falling down while scream-singing to Jon Secada. Earlier this year I tested the Coros Apex 2 Pro , which offers much of the same functionality as a Garmin at half the price. I liked it! $1,000 at Amazon (Both) $1,000 at REI (Sapphire Edition) $900 at REI (Standard Edition) $900 at Garmin Gear 13 Best Deals at Target’s Black Friday Sale Medea Giordano Buying Guides The Best Binoculars to Zoom In on Real Life Scott Gilbertson Gear Just Got a Meta Quest Headset? These Are Our Favorite Games Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Top New Features in Apple’s iOS 17 and iPadOS 17 Julian Chokkattu Photograph: ŌURA Best Ring Oura Ring Gen3 I originally complained about Oura's Gen3 ring —namely, that the company was strongly encouraging its customers to commit and upgrade to the Gen3 and a new $6-per-month subscription long before any of the newest features were even available.
However, in a sea of identical square and round watches, there really isn't any other tracker like the Oura. It's extremely small and attractive, and this year's new onboard sensors are just as accurate as they were before. Those features are now available with the membership, and you can access guided meditations, personalized insights, and educational content; without it, you will only be able to access your three basic Oura scores, which are your Daily Readiness, Sleep, and Activity scores (essentially what you saw last year ). If you have trouble predicting your period, the ring is sensitive enough to pick up the half-degree temperature drop right before mine starts. Although the company has made no explicit statement about Roe v. Wade , it’s based in Finland and abides by the GDPR , and US-based health authorities cannot subpoena data from it.
$449 at Oura Photograph: WHOOP The Most Wearable Whoop 4.0 (Membership) The biggest problem with any fitness wearable of any kind is how often they get in the way of … working on your fitness. You can't wear the Oura ring while rock climbing, for example. That's why the cult fitness tracker company Whoop introduced a line of smart clothes.
 With a Whoop in your bra, you can track runs with your Garmin! Whoop is best suited for athletes who can independently interpret its somewhat arcane metrics. “Daily Strain” measures only cardiovascular load, so a day where I walked 3 miles to and fro is supposedly a harder day than when I lifted weights for an hour. The Whoop 4.0 is also smaller than previous models, with a new battery, but I did experience charging issues with the new version. You have to keep the app running at all times, lest it constantly warn you that it can't update right this second. This year, the company debuted a new AI coach that I found considerably less than helpful—I know why I'm not getting enough sleep, but my work and kids aren't going away any time soon. Finally, at $30, the monthly subscription is the most expensive one here, and the line of proprietary clothing does not have extended sizing. Even with all those caveats, it's the only wearable I've ever forgotten I'm wearing.
$239 at Best Buy (Annual) $239 at Whoop (Annual) Gear 13 Best Deals at Target’s Black Friday Sale Medea Giordano Buying Guides The Best Binoculars to Zoom In on Real Life Scott Gilbertson Gear Just Got a Meta Quest Headset? These Are Our Favorite Games Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Top New Features in Apple’s iOS 17 and iPadOS 17 Julian Chokkattu Photograph: Casio An Update to a Classic Casio G-Shock Move A G-Shock is a classic watch for an outdoorsy person; these devices are known for being big, rugged, and unbreakable. (To me, they're best known for being the watch that Keanu Reeves wears in Speed ). Lo, this spring Casio released the G-Shock Move, which has the classic G-Shock looks and functionality coupled with Bluetooth connectivity and a brand-new partnership with Polar. The company known for its granular fitness data collection recently released 25 of its algorithms for use with commercial partners, of which Casio is the first. The partnership needs a little ironing out—you connect to the Casio Watches app (and not, confusingly, the G-Shock Move app), and it's unattractive and hard to navigate, plus Polar's biometrics can be difficult to interpret. It's also slower to connect to GPS than other trackers I've tried. Accuracy while recording my outdoor runs suffered as a result—I often just took off rather than standing around shivering in my shorts.
However, it's still a G-Shock. The battery lasted 10 days; the display is clear and easy to read; the buttons are pleasantly clicky and easy to navigate; and it's much, much lighter and easier to wear than other G-Shocks I've tried. The data on sleep collection also goes into much deeper detail than any other tracker I've tried. If you've always wanted a smart fitness tracker but were wedded to your classic Casio, this is the one to try.
$395 at Amazon $399 at REI Photograph: Apple Best for Weekend Warriors Apple Watch Ultra 2 The next iteration of Apple's rugged outdoor watch ( 8/10, WIRED Recommends ) has a faster new chipset, second-gen ultra-wideband chip, and compatibility with WatchOS 10. It also has a new, shockingly bright 3,000-nit screen that is theoretically useful for looking at your watch amidst the bright, snow-reflective glare. I didn't notice a difference on a sunny day at the river between the 3,000 nits of my watch and the 2,000 nits of the iPhone 15, but maybe you will! Apple has mostly given up on the idea that you will ever be without your phone, and many of the Watch Ultra 2's most useful features are seen only in conjunction with your iPhone. For example, you can look at offline maps only when you are within Bluetooth range of your iPhone and have downloaded them beforehand. In WatchOS 10, starting a cycling activity on your watch turns your phone into a de facto bike computer.
 A Watch Ultra 2 and iPhone combination doesn't work quite as well as a dedicated sports watch, but it works well enough, especially if you also want the full smartwatch functionality that an Apple Watch provides. After all, as much as I love sports, I spend the majority of my time at work and chasing kids around.
$780 at Amazon $799 at Apple $800 at Target Gear 13 Best Deals at Target’s Black Friday Sale Medea Giordano Buying Guides The Best Binoculars to Zoom In on Real Life Scott Gilbertson Gear Just Got a Meta Quest Headset? These Are Our Favorite Games Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Top New Features in Apple’s iOS 17 and iPadOS 17 Julian Chokkattu Photograph: Garmin My Favorite Watch Garmin Instinct 2 Solar Out of all these watches, the one I chose to come with me on a two-week beach adventure vacation was the Instinct 2 Solar ( 9/10, WIRED Recommends ). It's one of Garmin's most popular backcountry watches and combines a somewhat chunky, technical aesthetic (and fun colors!) with backcountry capability. With the Instinct 2, you get access to Garmin's multiple satellite systems and navigational features, insane battery life, and the ability to track many sport-specific metrics … without blowing money on extras like a big light-up screen.
The main updates to the Instinct 2 are improved solar charging, a high-resolution display, and a petite 40-mm case size. That smaller size fits on my wrist and under my jacket sleeve much more easily, and the high-resolution display is easier to read. The battery also lasted for a mindblowing 21 days, with multiple tracked activities per day. It also comes in a ton of different colors and sports-specific styles. For example, the popular Surf Edition—there is also a Tactical version—is compatible with the hugely popular surf forecasting company Surfline. You can see tide data and track your surfing. (It also has the best colors.) ★ Alternative: Can't decide between the Instinct and the Vivomove lines? Now you don't have to. The Instinct Crossover Solar ($426) , combines the Instinct's rugged capabilities with Garmin's solar-powered watch face. It's a little less intuitive to operate than either the Instinct or Vivomove itself, but I do find the analog hands convenient and the battery life is stellar.
$400 at Amazon $400 at Target $400 at REI Photograph: Garmin Honorable Mentions Other Trackers We Like We liked some other watches that didn't quite make it into our top picks.
Mobvoi TicWatch GTH Pro for $100 : Mobvoi's TicWatch Pro 5 is one of my colleague Julian Chokkattu's top smartwatch picks. That's a Wear OS watch though, and the GTH Pro isn't so smart. Its standout feature is Arty, which uses two light sensors to monitor your heart health. However, the Withings watch has been cleared by the FDA, and so far the GTH Pro has not. The screen also fritzes out occasionally.
Amazfit GTR 3 Pro for $190 : This is the first of Amazfit's watches I've actually liked wearing.
 It has onboard GPS and is sturdy and durable, and the screen is beautiful. However, I didn't reliably get my Bluetooth notifications, couldn't measure my blood oxygen levels or control my music, and some of the advanced training metrics needed ironing out.
The Polar Ignite for $190 : I like the Ignite's low profile and extremely granular data collection, which lets you check how factors like heart rate variability, breathing rate, and heart rate all combine to ramp up your autonomic nervous system.
The Suunto 9 Peak for $286 : We recommended the Suunto 9 Baro for bikepacking , and the 9 Peak includes all of the features in a much more compact, attractive package. It's too sensitive to be a great everyday tracker (it tells me I've hit 400 steps before I even get out of bed), but it's a great adventure watch.
The Wahoo Fitness Elemnt Rival for $200 : The functions on this watch were pretty perfunctory; there are much more capable trackers for this price. However, it integrates with Wahoo's smart indoor trainer system , which is excellent.
Gear 13 Best Deals at Target’s Black Friday Sale Medea Giordano Buying Guides The Best Binoculars to Zoom In on Real Life Scott Gilbertson Gear Just Got a Meta Quest Headset? These Are Our Favorite Games Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Top New Features in Apple’s iOS 17 and iPadOS 17 Julian Chokkattu Photograph: Zepp Buyer Beware I Did Not Like These Trackers I test new fitness trackers all the time. Some of them are duds.
Fossil Gen 6 Wellness for $299 : Our unhappy reviews editor Julian Chokkattu said that this smartwatch was laggy and had only barebones fitness tracking and no ECG. It's pretty attractive, though.
Amazfit PowerBuds Pro for $130 : The concept of earbuds that are also fitness trackers is intriguing, and these look and feel a lot like the AirPods Pro. However, I don't particularly like Zepp OS, and their utility is also limited since you don't wear earbuds constantly (at least, I don't).
Matrix PowerWatch 2 for $300 : Recharging from solar energy and body heat works! I wore this watch for more than three weeks without having to recharge it. However, it's huge and clunky. During my testing, the heart rate monitor was inaccurate, and it was hard to change the display. The app was also beset by technical problems, and I had to constantly reinstall the app and reconnect the watch.
Senior Associate Reviews Editor X Topics Shopping fitness tracker workout buying guides Wearables outdoors fitness health Medea Giordano Scott Gilbertson Eric Ravenscraft Julian Chokkattu Matt Jancer Julian Chokkattu Simon Hill Julian Chokkattu WIRED COUPONS Dyson promo code Extra 20% off sitewide - Dyson promo code GoPro Promo Code GoPro Promo Code: save 15% on your next order Samsung Promo Code Samsung coupon Code for up to 40% Off the store Dell Coupon Code American Express Dell Coupon Code: Score 10% off select purchases Best Buy Coupon Best Buy coupon: Score $300 off select laptops VistaPrint promo code 15% off VistaPrint promo code when you sign up for emails Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
