Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Jaina Grey Gear Review: Meta Quest 2 Facebook X Email Save Story Photograph: Meta Facebook X Email Save Story $300 at Amazon $300 at Target $300 at Best Buy If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Rating: 9/10 Open rating explainer I live in Oregon, and my state is on fire. The sky outside my window is a ruddy yellow-brown, imagine the foggiest day of your life and throw a sepia filter over it. That’s Portland right now. The air smells like a million-acre campfire and tastes bitter on your tongue. For a few hours as the sun sets, the sky becomes the color of spilt blood, and the sun looks like the eye of an angry god burning a hole in the world. It’s all a bit on the nose isn’t it? Before the fires, VR had been an oasis from the crushing familiarity of an apartment I couldn’t leave. Now it’s even more of a refuge. When I’m wearing the Meta Quest 2 (originally called the Oculus Quest 2) I can’t see the stinging smoke or angry sky, and I breathe just a little easier. It’s a different kind of escapism than I get out of watching Peaky Blinders or playing Spiritfarer.
 It’s hard to engage with media in any meaningful (or escapist) way when even the sunlight is burning. Unless that media can take you by the hand and lead you into a different world.
Typically, tethered-to-a-desktop-PC VR is a real production to pull off. I have to clear some space, plug all the boxes and cables in, make sure the main cable isn’t knotted or kinked, put on my headset, adjust the straps, take it off, adjust the fit again, then fire up the game launcher. After that, I play for a few minutes while trying to stay hyper aware of the position of the cable so I don't yank it out, and constantly peek through the bottom of the headset so I don't trip on it and slam a hand into my desk (again).
It was even worse in the external-sensor days, when I’d have to position sensor lighthouses around the room to track my movements. If there wasn’t someone else there to handle all the setup and cables, being in VR was less immersive than watching a movie or playing a non-VR game. It’s easy to sink into a story playing out on screen when I'm reclined on a couch with the lights off. In VR, the constant need to be aware of my surroundings always split my attention in two and cooled down my excitement for virtual gaming.
The Oculus Quest was the first headset to change that. It doesn't require any cords or a PC. It plays games all on its own, unless you want to tether to a PC for ultra-high-end experiences. It was the first headset that made me excited for VR. And I wasn't alone. It flew off the shelves. Demand greatly outpaced supply, likely because it was a headset for people who didn’t want to set aside an entire room for VR. With the Quest, you could just clear a spot in your living room, or even just stay seated on the couch, and you were all set.
Photograph: Oculus The last couple of days, I’ve taken my breaks with the $399 Meta Quest 2.
 Like its predecessor, it connects to my Wi-Fi and plays games all by itself, with two wireless motion controllers, a sleeker white design, and a few new abilities.
I tend to slide it on, plug some noise-canceling headphones into the headphone jack (it has speakers, but I like full immersion), and spend a little time with Quill the mouse knight from Moss.
 Sometimes I just open YouTube VR and watch high-resolution wildlife videos. Scuttling crabs, pristine beaches, primeval forests—I’ve visited them all with the Quest 2.
When I really need to sink into another world for a while, I close Slack for the day, eat a cannabis gummy, and spend some time playing Rez Infinite.
 Soaring through a ’90s version of cyberspace to a gentle, thumping synth soundtrack is a great way to forget about the ever-encroaching wildfires, if only for a while.
The Meta Quest 2 is smaller than the original Quest, a bit lighter, less front-heavy—that’s impressive considering the displays are higher-res than ever before. It doesn’t feel like you’re wearing your dad’s binoculars on your face anymore. The head strap is looser; it’s all fabric now instead of semirigid soft-touch plastic. It’s a change I have mixed feelings about.
The fabric straps are much more comfortable, and they’re a bit easier to adjust. Problem is, the previous version’s head strap was shaped to sort of cradle the back of your head—and it had a hole I could tuck my ponytail through. This new one doesn’t, so it tends to slide down your nose a little bit over time, like a pair of glasses. It doesn't slide much, but it is noticeable if you don’t have the straps adjusted just right.
Meta Quest 2 Rating: 9/10 $300 at Amazon $300 at Target $300 at Best Buy If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED Meta plans to roll out some accessories to give players options when it comes to straps. The forthcoming Pro Strap is rigid and similar to the one on the Oculus Rift S.
 It's meant to provide a more reliable base if you’re playing physically active VR games. Additionally, the company plans to release a battery pack that attaches to the Pro Strap, doubling the battery life you’ll get out of the Quest 2, which is normally about two to three hours.
Adjusting pupillary distance is also a bit different on the Quest 2. On the previous model, there was a little slider underneath the visor you’d use to find the right pupil distance so you could see clearly; you’d adjust it while the headset was on your head. To set your pupil distance on the Quest 2, you need to take the headset off, move the lenses a bit, put the headset back on, and try again until you get it just right for your eyes. Thankfully, it’s a one-time setup. The lenses stay put, and since there’s no external slider, you won’t accidentally bump them out of the correct position when you’re fumbling for the volume rocker. But if more than one person uses your Quest 2, the tougher setup might annoy you.
Photograph: Oculus In the past couple of years, Meta has carefully sanded down all the edges that made VR such a prickly proposition for many gamers. Jumping in and out of VR is even more seamless with the Quest 2, thanks to the introduction of hand tracking.
With the Quest 2, you can use your hands instead of the controllers. Seeing the headset render your hands and perfectly catch their every movement in VR is pretty cool. You can even make certain rude gestures and see them in VR. The hand tracking doesn’t like when you put your hands together, though. It loses sight of them as soon as your palms touch.
Meta Quest 2 Rating: 9/10 $300 at Amazon $300 at Target $300 at Best Buy If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED It's more of a proof of concept than a practical feature. There aren’t many games or experiences that support hand tracking, so you’re mostly limited to navigating the Quest 2’s menus. But even something as simple as swiping through the Meta Store with nothing but your hands is a really cool experience that makes me excited for the future of this technology.
Meta is investing heavily in the Quest 2. In fact, it’s the company's new flagship headset. The Oculus Rift S is being discontinued, as is the previous Quest. They’re headed to a lovely farm upstate where they can run wild and free with other retired headsets like the Oculus Go.
 It’s a smart move. The Quest 2 is the best Oculus headset by far. At about $300 when it hits shelves October 13 (you can preorder it), with top-notch tethered and untethered VR capabilities, the Meta Quest 2 delivers on the promise of VR in ways other headsets never have, and that’s exciting for the future.
Initially, the Quest 2 required a Facebook account, but that is thankfully no longer the case. It still requires you make a Meta account for digital purchases through the app store. Still, the deepening of ties between Oculus and Meta won’t sit well with some players, and for good reason. It’s not paranoia to think critically about who you’re giving your data to and how they might use it.
The Quest 2 is a stellar piece of hardware, peerless in the VR space, but make sure you’re making an informed purchase. I recommend you read up on Facebook’s more-recent controversies , especially how the company handles (and has mishandled) user data , before taking the plunge.
Meta Quest 2 Rating: 9/10 $300 at Amazon $300 at Target $300 at Best Buy If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism.
Learn more.
 Please also consider subscribing to WIRED $300 at Amazon $300 at Target $300 at Best Buy Writer and Reviewer X Instagram Topics Shopping Oculus review virtual reality video games Reviews Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
