Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Early Black Friday Deals Best USB-C Accessories for iPhone 15 All the ‘Best’ T-Shirts Put to the Test What to Do If You Get Emails for the Wrong Person Get Our Deals Newsletter Gadget Lab Newsletter Julian Chokkattu Brenda Stolyar Gear The Top New Features in Apple’s iOS 17 and iPadOS 17 Photograph: Apple Save this story Save Save this story Save NameDrop, StandBy, Contact Poster. These aren't rad band names, but some of the top new features that are now available with iOS 17 and iPadOS 17. The latest operating systems come jam-packed with a ton more useful capabilities—all of which we break down below. We've also included instructions on how to download the software for both devices. Be sure to check out our macOS Sonoma feature roundup for all the new features available for Macs.
Updated October 2023: We've added a section detailing the features in iOS 17.1 and iPadOS 17.1.
With iOS 17, Apple is ending software support for the following devices: iPhone 8, iPhone 8 Plus, and iPhone X. If you have an iPhone XR and iPhone XS or newer (including the second- and third-gen iPhone SE ), you can download and run iOS 17. If you're unsure what model iPhone you have, head to the Settings app, tap on General > About and look at the Model Name.
 This still doesn't mean every feature is available, as some require more modern processors.
It’s a little more complicated for iPads since the naming scheme is counted by generation rather than by name. Here are the generations that support iPadOS 17. You can figure out which model you have by following the directions here.
iPad : Sixth-gen and later iPad Mini : Fifth-gen and later iPad Air : Third-gen and later iPad Pro : Second-gen and later Before downloading the new operating system on your iPhone or iPad, we strongly recommend backing up your devices. You can do this via iCloud—go to Settings , tap on your name at the top, and select iCloud.
 Then, tap on iCloud Backup , toggle it on, and tap Back Up Now to start a new backup. On the previous iCloud page, you also have the option to toggle off certain apps that you don't want to include in the backup. Don't have enough iCloud storage, or want to use another method? Check out our How to Back Up Your iPhone or iPad guide for alternative options.
Once that’s out of the way, you’re officially ready to install iOS 17 and iPadOS 17. Since this is a substantial update, you should plug your devices into a charger and make sure they’re connected to Wi-Fi. Next, go to Settings > General > Software Update.
 You’ll then see an option to download the update. Tap Download and Install and, when the download is complete, tap Install Now to begin the update. You’ll know the update is complete when your device restarts. Since the whole process can take some time, we suggest running it when you don’t need to use your device.
The top features in iOS and iPadOS 17 are listed below, but Apple releases additional updates throughout the year. These include security patches, bug fixes, and new features that weren't included in the initial launch. To update your iPhone to the latest version of the operating system, go to Settings > General > Software Update and follow the same instructions listed above.
iOS 17.1 : This update includes an upgrade to AirDrop transfers, new display settings in StandBy mode, and new Music features. Apple also included several bug fixes, including crash detection optimizations for iPhone 14 and iPhone 15 models, an issue that causes the keyboard to be less responsive, Home Key support for Matter locks, and more. You can see the full list here.
 We've added details about these features below.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Sonos Deals Brenda Stolyar Gear The 37 Best Black Friday Deals on Outdoor Gear Scott Gilbertson Top iOS 17 Features Below we've listed many of the top features in the new version of the operating system, and we'll continue to add notable changes as Apple releases smaller updates throughout the year. For the full list of changes, you can read Apple's website.
Photograph: Apple Contact Posters are like pretty business cards, but for when you're calling someone already in your address book. You can customize the screen that will pop up when anyone gets your call (if they have an iPhone) with a photo or Memoji of yourself, and throw in a custom font and color. These will work with third-party calling apps and will also pop up in your Contacts app and other areas where you share your information, such as NameDrop. You can edit your Contact Poster in the Contacts app. Tap your name, and tap Edit at the top right.
What's NameDrop? It's an AirDrop feature that lets you put two iPhones next to each other to share contact information with the other person. You can choose on the screen what emails and phone numbers you want to share. (It's very reminiscent of Bump and Android Beam, both of which are now defunct.) Bringing two iPhones together won't trigger only NameDrop, though. You can also use this action to share content or start SharePlay activities together, like listening to the same music. As of now, the feature only works between iPhones. Later this year, you'll also be able to send your contact information to an Apple Watch (as long as it's a Series 7 or later, Apple Watch SE 2nd generation, or Apple Watch Ultra or later).
Google has Call Screen on its Pixel phones which shows a live transcription of a call before you answer it. Now iPhones have a similar feature that's less about avoiding spam and robocalls, and more aimed at voicemails. When someone leaves you a voicemail, you can see it being transcribed on your screen in real time. You can then choose to answer the call immediately if it's important.
Photograph: Apple There are a number of nice small tweaks available on the Messages app. First, your iMessage apps no longer clutter the top of the keyboard. Now, they live inside a little “+” icon. Tap it to expand them, and it'll sort the list by the apps you use the most. You can swipe up to see the rest of your iMessage apps. When responding to messages, you can also now swipe to the right on any message to send a reply.
Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear The PlayStation Portal Turns Your PS5 Into a Handheld, Sorta Eric Ravenscraft Gear The Best Black Friday Sonos Deals Brenda Stolyar Gear The 37 Best Black Friday Deals on Outdoor Gear Scott Gilbertson You're now able to check in with a friend or family member when you arrive at a destination. If you dillydally for some reason on the way to this destination, the system will try to check in with you, and if you don't respond, it will share location data, battery level, and cell service status with your loved one. Apple says this data is end-to-end encrypted. You can press the “+” sign to find this feature in an iMessage conversation, then tap More until you see Check In.
When someone shares their location with you in iMessage, you'll now be able to see this directly in the conversation without having to leave the app. If they send an audio message, you'll see the transcription immediately under it, which is handy if you can't listen to it immediately.
As for FaceTime, you can now leave a video or audio message for anyone who doesn't answer your call (about time!). FaceTime is now also making its way to Apple TV, and you can use your iPhone as a camera. During the call itself, you can create augmented reality “reactions,” like confetti, hearts, or fireworks, with certain hand gestures. You know, in case the person is bored with your normal reactions.
If you want all your vacation photos to have the same look, you can now batch-edit a whole bunch of photos and videos in one fell swoop. To do this, open a photo in your Photos app and press Edit.
 Make the changes you want, then save the photo. Press the triple-dot icon on the top right and tap Copy Edits , then go to the next photo, tap the triple-dot icon, and press Paste Edits.
 Once you have copied edits, you can select any number of photos and paste them, giving a collection of photos a cohesive look immediately.
Apple is placing a big emphasis on Stickers in iOS 17, so much so that they're now built into the emoji keyboard, making them more accessible in third-party apps. Last year's iOS 16 brought the ability to cut out a subject from any image you capture by just tapping and holding it, and now you can turn these into your own stickers for big meme potential. You can add effects to these stickers and even create Live Stickers with Live Photos. Make embarrassing stickers of friends on demand. Truly, we're in the best timeline.
Google Pixel phones have a feature that turns them into a smart display when placed on one of Google's own wireless chargers. Apple is going even further with StandBy.
 This enables any iPhone to turn into a more useful display while charging in landscape mode. You can have it show the clock (with different clock designs available), photos from your library, or interactive widgets. If you specifically place it on a MagSafe charger, your iPhone will remember your preferred view. Be sure to check out our Best Apple 3-in-1 Chargers guide if you want to take advantage of this feature.
Prior to iOS 17.1, anyone using an iPhone with an Always-On Display (iPhone 14 Pro, iPhone 14 Pro Max, iPhone 15 Pro, and iPhone 15 Pro Max) would have to tap the screen whenever they want to turn the feature off. The latest update adds a bit more customization. When you head to Settings > StandBy > Display , you can choose between Automatically , which will turn the display off when the iPhone isn't in use and the room is dark, After 20 Seconds , or Never.
Do you late hate Apple's autocorrect? You're not alone. The company is finally making it better. Autocorrect now uses a “transformer language mode” for better word prediction. It corrects more types of grammatical mistakes than ever before, and you can see predictive text recommendations as you type, just like what you'll find using Gmail's Smart Compose.
 These improvements also extend to voice dictation, which uses a new speech recognition model that purportedly makes it more accurate.
Photograph: Apple Apple's Communication Safety feature, which helps prevent kids from seeing nude images in iMessage, has expanded its reach in iOS 17. Now, it brings these protections to other services and apps in iOS, from AirDrop and Contact Posters to FaceTime messages. It works with video content too. Adults can also take advantage of the feature, as it can blur sensitive videos and photos and let you choose whether to view them. Apple maintains that all image and video processing for these protective features happens on your device, and nothing is sent back to Apple.
If someone is sharing high-res media with you and it's going to take some time to transfer, you don't need to stand next to them and wait for the transfer to complete. You can step away and the files will be sent over the internet.
There are quite a number of small improvements worth noting: Adaptive Audio: If you have the second-generation AirPods Pro , there's a new listening mode called Adaptive Audio. This is a blend of Apple's Transparency mode and Active Noise Cancellation, so you can block out annoying sounds but hear important ones. If you start speaking, Conversation Awareness will automatically lower the media volume, reduce background noise, and enhance the voices in front of you. Also new is the ability to tap the stem of the AirPods Pro (first and second generation), AirPods (3rd gen), and the Digital Crown on AirPods Max during a call to mute and unmute.
CarPlay gets SharePlay: On a road trip? If the car has CarPlay and everyone inside has an iPhone, anyone can control the playlist. Later this year, you'll also be able to collaborate on playlists together.
Hotel AirPlay: Apple is bringing AirPlay to hotel rooms. You can just scan a QR code from the TV to share videos, photos, and music from your device to the big screen. Apple says it's starting with brands from IHG Hotels & Resorts.
Offline maps: Google Maps has had it for years, but Apple has finally caught up. You can now save an area of a map to your device and use it when you don't have an internet connection, including turn-by-turn navigation.
Accessibility updates: There's a new feature called Assistive Access, which adds a customizable interface to make the iPhone easier to use for people with cognitive disabilities. Live Speech offers a way for people who can't speak to have their words spoken in person or on the phone. Personal Voice lets people “at risk of speech loss” create a voice similar to theirs. And then there's Point and Speak, which helps blind people and those with low vision read text on physical objects by pointing the phone at the item.
Visual lookup: When you tap on a subject in a photo to lift it out (to create a Sticker or paste it anywhere else), you can also press Look Up to get more information about it. This works in paused video frames too.
Simpler Siri: You no longer have to say “Hey Siri" to trigger the voice assistant; just say “Siri." Similarly, you no longer have to keep saying it when making back-to-back commands. Just add another command.
Health app updates: Apple is letting you log your daily moods in the Health app, with access to depression and anxiety assessments typically found in clinics (and other resources). Also, if you are using Apple's Screen Time feature for your kids, there's now a Screen Distance tool that will use the TrueDepth camera to encourage children to move further away if they are holding the phone closer than 12 inches from their face for an extended period of time. Apple says this can help lower the risk of myopia and reduce digital eyestrain in adults. Additionally, the Health app is finally available on the iPad.
Family of AirTags: You can share your AirTag with up to five people, and everyone will be able to keep track of the item in the Find My app.
Fur friends in Photos: The People album in the Photos app is now the People and Pets album because it can finally identify your furry friends. No, it won't show photos of just any cats and dogs, but will smartly know your pet.
Music app updates: In addition to songs, you can now “favorite” albums and playlists. You'll then have the ability to filter those favorites based on category. At the bottom of each playlist, you'll also receive song suggestions that you can add.
Top iPadOS 17 Features As usual, iPadOS 17 has many of the same exact features we went over in iOS 17, but there are a few exclusive tablet-specific updates too. For the full list, check out Apple's overview page.
Photograph: Apple Google's new Pixel Tablet turns a standard tablet into a smart display, and Apple is thinking along the same lines with some of its lock screen changes in iPadOS 17.
 You can customize a whole lot more on the lock screen now, from new wallpapers to Live Photo wallpapers, and even add Live Activities so you can monitor certain events like timers, scores of a game, and the status of your Uber Eats order. Finally, you can add interactive widgets on the lock screen so you can do more without having to unlock the screen and launch an app.
There are a few changes to Safari in iPadOS 17; this is another one that also affects iOS 17. In Safari, you can now create work and personal profiles (and more) to keep your browsing separate, segmenting your history, cookies, Tab Groups, and Favorites. Using Apple's Private Browsing feature? Now you can lock the tabs with Face ID or Touch ID, instead of closing them out completely in case you have to step away from your machine.
If you save your passwords and passkey with Safari, you can now create a group of people to share certain accounts with. You can remove someone from the group at any time, and the passwords stay up to date. Speaking of, if you receive a one-time verification code in Mail, it'll automatically get filled in Safari so you don't have to go hunting for the email.
Photograph: Apple Apple's Stage Manager feature from iOS 16 has a few refinements. You get more flexibility in moving and resizing windows to customize your app layouts exactly the way you want them to look. Stage Manager also now supports built-in cameras on external displays.
Freeform, the collaborative whiteboard app Apple debuted last year, is getting a few new tools. (This applies to Freeform on all Apple platforms, including iOS 17.) The new tools are a watercolor brush, calligraphy pen, highlighter, variable-width pen, and ruler. You can also now draw any shape and the software will perfect it, so you don't have to be embarrassed about your circles.
Freeform also now has a feature called Follow Along, which lets you track which area of the whiteboard your collaborators are working on. The screen will show you what they are looking at as they move through the canvas. Handy for really big whiteboards! Coming Soon All the features listed above are currently available with iOS and iPadOS 17. But a few of them will be released with future updates. Apple doesn't list an exact date aside from later this year.
Photograph: Apple iOS 17 will soon come with a brand-new app. It's called Journal, and as the name suggests, it tries to get you to write down your thoughts and memories. You can add photos, audio recordings, and music to your journal entries and even make goals. Apple says Journal uses on-device machine learning to suggest moments to write about too.
If you're frequently working in PDFs, Apple harped on how much easier it is to input information not just in iPadOS 17, but iOS 17 as well. The software will use machine learning to identify the fields in a PDF so you can quickly add details, and the Notes app now lets you organize, read, annotate, and collaborate in PDFs too.
When you join a chat with dozens of new messages, you'll soon be able to tap on a new “catch-up arrow” to jump all the way to the first new message. That way, you won't have to spend time scrolling to find it.
You Might Also Like … 📨 Make the most of chatbots with our AI Unlocked newsletter Taylor Swift, Star Wars, Stranger Things , and Deadpool have one man in common Generative AI is playing a surprising role in Israel-Hamas disinformation The new era of social media looks as bad for privacy as the last one Johnny Cash’s Taylor Swift cover predicts the boring future of AI music Your internet browser does not belong to you 🔌 Charge right into summer with the best travel adapters , power banks , and USB hubs Reviews Editor X Product Writer & Reviewer X Topics WWDC ios iPad iPhone apple software how-to phones tips Brenda Stolyar Simon Hill Boone Ashworth David Nield Simon Hill Justin Pot Julian Chokkattu Julian Chokkattu WIRED COUPONS TurboTax Service Code TurboTax coupon: Up to an extra $15 off all tax services h&r block coupon H&R Block tax software: Save 20% - no coupon needed Instacart promo code Instacart promo code: $25 Off your 1st order + free delivery Doordash Promo Code 50% Off DoorDash Promo Code + Free Delivery Finish Line Coupon Take $10 off Your Order - Finish Line Coupon Code Groupon Promo Code Black Friday Early Access: Up to 75% off + extra savings in cart Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
