Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Humans are still better than AI at Dota 2—for now By Will Knight archive page A team of professional video gamers prevailed over a group of cutting-edge AI algorithms in a landmark galactic mêlée held last night.
The game, which took place at the International Dota 2 Championships in Vancouver, Canada, showed that humans are still a lot smarter than AI software at complex tasks. The algorithms have previously defeated several teams of less-skilled players.
Five stars: The AI algorithms were developed by OpenAI, an AI research nonprofit funded by Elon Musk, Sam Altman, and others. Dubbed the OpenAI Five , each algorithm is a neural network that learns to play the game through what’s known as reinforcement learning.
Battle plan: Dota 2 involves two teams battling for territory within a sprawling space-themed battle arena. The game is challenging for AI programs because it is complex, requires teamwork, and unfolds over time (making it tricky to gauge successful progress). During last night’s match, the OpenAI Five exhibited some weird behavior before suffering a narrow defeat. Overall, it acquitted itself well against some of the world's best human players.
Cheat codes: Some have noted that, instead of relying on a view of the screen as a human player does, the OpenAI Five use the game’s application programming interface (API). These means the algorithms can instantly access more information about a game. Still, that shouldn’t detract from what is an impressive achievement for AI, despite the loss.
hide by Will Knight Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 Zeyi Yang How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Deep Dive Artificial intelligence This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI The tool, called Nightshade, messes up training data in ways that could cause serious damage to image-generating AI models.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 With just a few minutes of sample video and $1,000, brands never have to stop selling their products.
By Zeyi Yang archive page Driving companywide efficiencies with AI Advanced AI and ML capabilities revolutionize how administrative and operations tasks are done.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page Rogue superintelligence and merging with machines: Inside the mind of OpenAI’s chief scientist An exclusive conversation with Ilya Sutskever on his fears for the future of AI and why they’ve made him change the focus of his life’s work.
By Will Douglas Heaven archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
