Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Inside the world of AI that forges beautiful art and terrifying deepfakes By Karen Hao archive page Nvidia In the last three weeks, we laid down the basics of AI. To recap: Most AI advances and applications are based on a type of algorithm known as machine learning that finds and reapplies patterns in data.
Deep learning , a powerful subset of machine learning, uses neural networks to find and amplify even the smallest patterns.
Neural networks are layers of simple computational nodes that work together to analyze data, kind of like neurons in the human brain.
Now we get to the fun part. Using one neural network is really great for learning patterns; using two is really great for creating them. Welcome to the magical, terrifying world of generative adversarial networks, or GANs.
GANs are having a bit of a cultural moment. They are responsible for the first piece of AI-generated artwork sold at Christie’s , as well as the category of fake digital images known as “ deepfakes.
” Their secret lies in the way two neural networks work together—or rather, against each other. You start by feeding both neural networks a whole lot of training data and give each one a separate task. The first network, known as the generator, must produce artificial outputs, like handwriting, videos, or voices, by looking at the training examples and trying to mimic them. The second, known as the discriminator, then determines whether the outputs are real by comparing each one with the same training examples.
Related Story Each time the discriminator successfully rejects the generator’s output, the generator goes back to try again. To borrow a metaphor from my colleague Martin Giles, the process “mimics the back-and-forth between a picture forger and an art detective who repeatedly try to outwit one another.” Eventually, the discriminator can’t tell the difference between the output and training examples. In other words, the mimicry is indistinguishable from reality.
You can see why a world with GANs is equal measures beautiful and ugly. On one hand, the ability to synthesize media and mimic other data patterns can be useful in photo editing, animation, and medicine (such as to improve the quality of medical images and to overcome the scarcity of patient data). It also brings us joyful creations like this: #BigGAN is so much fun. I stumbled upon a (circular) direction in latent space that makes party parrots, as well as other party animals: pic.twitter.com/zU1mCh9UBe And this: On the other hand, GANs can also be used in ethically objectionable and dangerous ways: to overlay celebrity faces on the bodies of porn stars , to make Barack Obama say whatever you want, or to forge someone’s fingerprint and other biometric data, an ability researchers at NYU and Michigan State recently showed in a paper.
Fortunately, GANs still have limitations that put some guard rails in place. They need quite a lot of computational power and narrowly scoped data to produce something truly believable. In order to produce a realistic image of a frog, for example, such a system needs hundreds of images of frogs from a particular species, preferably facing a similar direction. Without those specifications, you get some really wacky results , like this creature from your darkest nightmares: ok these #BIGGAN results are incredible.
#nature should take a hint. eyes distributed around the head is a winner #BIGGAN pic.twitter.com/hJBb3fUQ78 (You should thank me for not showing you the spiders.) But experts worry that we’ve only seen the tip of the iceberg. As the algorithms get more and more refined, glitchy videos and Picasso animals will become a thing of the past. As Hany Farid, a digital image forensics expert, once told me , we’re poorly prepared to solve this problem.
This originally appeared in our AI newsletter The Algorithm. To have it delivered directly to your inbox, subscribe here for free.
hide by Karen Hao Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 Zeyi Yang How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Deep Dive Artificial intelligence This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI The tool, called Nightshade, messes up training data in ways that could cause serious damage to image-generating AI models.
By Melissa Heikkilä archive page Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 With just a few minutes of sample video and $1,000, brands never have to stop selling their products.
By Zeyi Yang archive page Driving companywide efficiencies with AI Advanced AI and ML capabilities revolutionize how administrative and operations tasks are done.
By MIT Technology Review Insights archive page Rogue superintelligence and merging with machines: Inside the mind of OpenAI’s chief scientist An exclusive conversation with Ilya Sutskever on his fears for the future of AI and why they’ve made him change the focus of his life’s work.
By Will Douglas Heaven archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
