Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Featured Topics Newsletters Events Podcasts Why Facebook is right not to take down the doctored Pelosi video By Angela Chen archive page A photo illustration showing a photo of Nancy Pelosi and Facebook thumbs ups Ms. Tech; AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite Critics are condemning Facebook for not taking down a video of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi that was slowed to make her seem drunk.
 But some experts argue that removing the video might have set a precedent that would actually cause more harm.
The video makes Pelosi look strange, but it’s not a “ deepfake ”—it doesn’t falsely show her saying anything she didn’t actually say. It’s an example of what MIT Media Lab researcher Hossein Derakhshan calls “ malinformation ,” or basically true information that has been subtly manipulated to harm someone.
And while Derakhshan thinks it might have been okay to take down a faked video that showed Pelosi making a racial slur, for example, he argues that it’s too much to expect platforms to police malinformation. “Usually when people do these manipulations, I don’t think it’s illegal,” he says. “So there’s no ground for removing them or requesting them to be taken off these platforms.” It’s easy to imagine creating a rule like “Take down false examples of hate speech,” but far harder to come up with a rule that requires taking down the Pelosi video but not other forms of mockery, satire, or dissent.
Political mockery, after all, often uses information out of context and comes with intent to harm. An overly broad rule could backfire in authoritarian countries, according to Alexios Mantzarlis , a fellow at TED studying misinformation, who previously helped launch Facebook’s partnerships with fact-checkers.
“My position here is that that this does not seem to cause someone real-life harm, and that once we start taking things down, the precedent might be slippery, especially [for] politicians,” he says. It’s not hard to imagine Facebook being pressured into taking down a video making fun of someone like Brazil’s Jair Bolsonaro, or Donald Trump.
That doesn’t mean that there’s never a reason to take down videos (Mantzarlis says he’s not a free speech absolutist)— just that there are nuances when it comes to the types of manipulation, the potential for harm, and what platforms should do.
In any case, “leave it up” or “take it down” are not the only options. The platform did flag the video with warnings from fact-checking organizations, but Mantzarlis tweeted four other ways Facebook could have taken action more effectively.
4 thoughts on what Facebook could have done on the Pelosi video that fall short of taking it down but might still help in the future.
(My takedown-hot take is available at room temperature here: https://t.co/iZaPHiuhn6 ) For instance, the the video could have been flagged more quickly, or more prominently—unless you try to share the video, you see only a subtle warning that its authenticity is in doubt. Facebook could also, Mantzarlis, suggests, invite users who shared the video to unshare or unlike, and then share the data with researchers trying to understand what works in fighting the spread of manipulated media.
“This is the largest real-life experiment in combating digital misinformation in history,” he says, “and so the wealth of knowledge that this could generate and provide to researchers and other practitioners fighting misinformation would be really extraordinary.” Derakhshan agrees that it’s important to label videos that have been fabricated in some way, but he suggests that the best solution is nurturing media literacy. As we deal more and more with images, it’s important to teach people to be skeptical of videos, in the same way it’s now common to wonder if an image has been Photoshopped. “Everybody should always think about the possibility of facing fabricated video,” he says.
hide by Angela Chen Share linkedinlink opens in a new window twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window emaillink opens in a new window Popular This new data poisoning tool lets artists fight back against generative AI Melissa Heikkilä Everything you need to know about artificial wombs Cassandra Willyard Deepfakes of Chinese influencers are livestreaming 24/7 Zeyi Yang How to fix the internet Katie Notopoulos Deep Dive Policy Three things to know about the White House’s executive order on AI Experts say its emphasis on content labeling, watermarking, and transparency represents important steps forward.
By Tate Ryan-Mosley archive page Melissa Heikkilä archive page How generative AI is boosting the spread of disinformation and propaganda In a new report, Freedom House documents the ways governments are now using the tech to amplify censorship.
By Tate Ryan-Mosley archive page Government technology is famously bad. It doesn’t have to be.
New York City is fixing the relationship between government and technology–and not in the ways you’d expect.
By Tate Ryan-Mosley archive page It’s shockingly easy to buy sensitive data about US military personnel A new report exposes the privacy and national security concerns created by data brokers. US senators tell MIT Technology Review the industry needs to be regulated.
By Tate Ryan-Mosley archive page Stay connected Illustration by Rose Wong Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
Enter your email Thank you for submitting your email! It looks like something went wrong.
We’re having trouble saving your preferences. Try refreshing this page and updating them one more time. If you continue to get this message, reach out to us at customer-service@technologyreview.com with a list of newsletters you’d like to receive.
The latest iteration of a legacy Advertise with MIT Technology Review © 2023 MIT Technology Review About About us Careers Custom content Advertise with us International Editions Republishing MIT News Help Help & FAQ My subscription Editorial guidelines Privacy policy Terms of Service Write for us Contact us twitterlink opens in a new window facebooklink opens in a new window instagramlink opens in a new window rsslink opens in a new window linkedinlink opens in a new window
