Indaba Indaba Grand Challenge AI4D-IndabaX Innovation Funding Sponsorship Code of Conduct IndabaX Call for Hosts Core Contacts Awards Overview Kambule Doctoral Award Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Support Us Indaba Abantu Reports Editions 2017 2018 2019 2021 Indaba Indaba Grand Challenge AI4D-IndabaX Innovation Funding Sponsorship Code of Conduct IndabaX Call for Hosts Core Contacts Awards Overview Kambule Doctoral Award Mentorship Mentees Mentors Code of Ethics and Conduct Blog About Our Mission Support Us Indaba Abantu Reports Editions 2017 2018 2019 2021 Awards Key Dates Nominations for the Kambule and Maathai awards are not yet open. Please check again soon.
The Deep Learning Indaba is proud to host the Kambule, Maathai and Umuntu Awards.
The Kambule Doctoral Award recognises and encourages excellence in research and writing by doctoral candidates at African universities, in any area of computational and statistical sciences.
The Kambule Masters Award recognises excellence by Masters degree candidates at African universities, in any area of computational and statistical sciences.
The Maathai Impact Award encourages and recognises work by African innovators that shows impactful application of machine learning and artificial intelligence.
The Umuntu Award for Services to the African Machine Learning Community is awarded at the discretion of the Indaba’s Board of Trustees to recognise individuals or teams who have gone beyond the call of duty to support our African community.
​These awards celebrate those who show the strength of African machine learning, and we encourage as many applications from across our continent as possible. Information on eligibility and selection criteria, and to apply will be available later.
English French KiSwahili Arabic Contact us Deep Learning Indaba Strengthening African Machine Learning info@deeplearningindaba.com Indaba 2021 IndabaX Awards Mentorship Blog About Copyright © Deep Learning Indaba 2017 - 2023. All Rights Reserved.
