Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Andy Patrizio Science AMD Answers the 64-Bit Question Save this story Save Save this story Save SAN JOSE, California -- Advanced Micro Devices has been following in Intel's footsteps in the chipset market for many years, but its recent move towards 64-bit computing may be what allows it to finally catch up.
The importance of 64-bit computing was stressed last week at the Platform Conference in San Jose, where many of the players in the PC hardware market gathered to discuss future developments of the personal computer.
For starters, 32-bit processors like Intel's Pentium III/IV and AMD 's Athlon have a memory limit of 4 GB per CPU. Any more memory can't be addressed. A 64-bit computer can address 16 exabytes of memory. (An exabyte is 1,000 petabytes, a petabyte is 1,000 terabytes and a terabyte is 1,000 gigabytes.) While the first 32-bit Intel processor came out in 1985 , the average PC used 1 MB of memory, so 4 GB was both unaffordable and generally not needed. But the recent advent of Windows XP and digital media has changed all of that.
Now we're approaching a point where people need more than 4 GB of memory, and they can't get it.
"Those 32-bit processors are running out of gas," said Nathan Brookwood, principal analyst with Insight 64 and moderator of the panel. "Today, the four-gigabyte limit is starting to pose some problems." Those problems are with large databases and digital media. For example, a digital camcorder can easily generate more than 4 GB of data, which couldn't all be loaded into memory for editing on a 32-bit processor. People feeling the 32-bit limit now are in the heavy engineering/computer aided design segment, where it's easy for designs to go way over the 4-GB limit, Brookwood said.
But the move to 64 bits won't be like previous upgrades, where the chipmakers bent over backwards to ensure compatibility with older hardware and software. Intel's 64-bit CPU, called Itanium, is an entirely new chip that has no compatibility with the x86 line of chips that carried it from the 8086 chip in 1981 to the Pentium IV. It's designed only for high-end servers, and Intel (INTC) has no plans as yet to bring 64-bit computing to the masses.
AMD (AMD), on the other hand, has a 64-bit chip called Opteron, due early next year, and it will be completely backwards compatible with the Athlon line, which is x86-compatible to begin with. Opteron will be in servers, desktops and laptops.
The panel, which included an AMD engineer, felt this was the way to go. "You wouldn't buy a DVD player that wouldn't play your CDs, would you?" said Jerry Huck, chief architect at Hewlett-Packard.
With Moore's Law doubling performance every 18 months, even home users could feel the pinch, Brookwood said. "It's not a pressing issue for the average user yet," he said. "When the average user is buying a 512-megabyte system and software is being designed for that level of hardware, there's plenty of room. But in another couple of years, it will start to become uncomfortable." Because the Itanium is based on a new design, it can only run x86 software in emulation, and that emulation has been criticized for being slow. This is where AMD thinks it has an opportunity. While Intel rebuilds a new market for Itanium and software is ported from x86 to Itanium, its Opteron line will run all of the old x86 software.
Intel wasn't at the show. It holds two Intel Developer Forum shows per year in the United States and six more worldwide and felt that's more than enough. "Anything more would be overkill," said a company spokesman.
Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker Matt Simon Matt Simon Rhett Allain Emily Mullin Rhett Allain Ramin Skibba Emily Mullin Emily Mullin Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
