Open Navigation Menu To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons How to Control Things Using Your Brain (and Open-Source Hardware) About Credits Released on 11/04/2015 (playful music) (mechanical whirring) By reading the electrical signals of our brains, scientists have developed brain computer interfaces or BCIs to connect machines directly with our minds.
In the past year, a community of engineers, artists and makers has come together because of OpenBCI, an open source company based in Brooklyn.
By offering affordable hardware powered by open source technology, OpenBCI empowers the DIY community to reimagine how we interact with machines.
I've been involved in open source hardware since about 2008, practicing it, using it, trying to design around it.
We started OpenBCI, which is an open source brand computer interface platform.
This weekend we are running our first hackathon.
This is what we've been waiting for is to actually have the tech in the wild and to be able to teach people how to use it and to bring people together, people who have experience with brain computer interfaces, people who have no experience with brain computer interfaces, but everyone has a stake or an interest at least in the space, so it's just been really exciting to have everyone come in here and kind of demonstrating what all these signals mean and how they can be used to understand who we are.
[Derek] In order to get started with out kit, attach the six volt double A battery pack to the open BCI board.
Next, attach our electrode cables to the board.
Now it's time to attach each electrode to the body.
The brain, muscle and heart's electrical signals can now be visualized through the graphic user interface.
(playful music) It's really awesome to see people witnessing their own brain activity for the first time.
We should see a heartbeat, you don't have a heartbeat right now, I don't know if that's a good thing.
(both laughing) So each time she blinks her eyes, you can see these big spikes here.
Can you see all those spikes? Those are EMG artifacts, electrical muscle activity.
[Derek] This hackathoner is measuring his brainwaves associated with concentration, as he plays a computer game.
Our hackathoners work to control each of these robotic toy spiders through the power of their brain activity.
Little more, there we go.
(mechanical whirring) [Derek] This hackathoner is controlling this robotic arm using an EMG electrode.
When he flexes his forearm, the electrical impulses generated by his muscles trigger the robotic arm to move.
The robotic arm itself is entirely open source and was printed with a 3D printer.
In this demonstration, each hackathoner concentrates on one independent command to collectively utilize their thoughts and steer this inflatable shark through the air.
Innovation happens faster when software and hardware is open source, when people can change it and modify it to their desire.
I think what's really important is presenting a tool both for research and for learning to people of younger generations who can approach the entire problem space from an inquisitive perspective, where they're like, I don't know what I can do with this yet, but no one really does.
This community of DIY cyborg enthusiasts and innovators are growing larger every day.
OpenBCI have hosted hackathons all over the world to encourage and foster the next generation of BCI devices.
With the help of dreamers, makers and experimenters, more applications for this technology will soon be discovered.
And for now, we can move a freaking inflatable shark with our minds.
Come on, that is cool as hell.
Want more Cyborg Nation? Then hit that subscribe button.
Starring: Derek Muller Featuring: Joel Murphy of OpenBCI, Conor Russomanno of OpenBCI An Acres Production in Association with reddit Executive Producers Matt McLaughlin & Andrew Simkiss Executive Producers Alexis Ohanian & Michael Pope Hosted by Derek Muller Special Thanks to r/futurology Directed by Elizabeth Orne & Cidney Hue Senior Producer Christian Silberbauer Produced by Jonathan Yaniv & Jacob Sillman Cinematographer Sharif El Neklawy Edited & Animated by Ben Mayer Written & Researched by Jonathan Yaniv & Jacob Sillman Line Producer Tiffany Chang Color by Irving Harvey | Josh Brede Mixed by Analogue Muse | Alan Zahn & Pierre-Andre Rigoll Science Advisor Pascal Wallisch Additional Photos Courtesy of OpenBCI This Technology Wants to Make Wheelchairs Obsolete Mind-Controlled Machines Give Paralyzed Patients New Hope This Robotic Hand Can Touch and Feel, Just Like a Human Hand How to Control Things Using Your Brain (and Open-Source Hardware) Cyborg Cockroaches Could Save Your Life Can Prosthetics Outperform Real Limbs? High-Speed Robots Part 1: Meet BettyBot in "Human Exclusion Zone" Warehouses High-Speed Robots Part 2: Kiva Robots in the Workplace & in our E-commerce Economy Crescent Dunes Solar Energy Project Part 2: Building the Power Plant Meet the 2014 Thiel Fellowship Finalists Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
