Open Navigation Menu To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
Close Alert Search Backchannel Business Culture Gear Ideas Science Security Merch Podcasts Video Artificial Intelligence Climate Games Newsletters Magazine Events Wired Insider Jobs Coupons Will Knight Business AI’s Smarts Now Come With a Big Price Tag Illustration: Elena Lacey; Getty Images Save this story Save Save this story Save Application Text generation Company Open AI End User Big company Small company Sector Health care IT Source Data Text Technology Natural language processing Calvin Qi, who works at a search startup called Glean , would love to use the latest artificial intelligence algorithms to improve his company’s products.
Glean provides tools for searching through applications like Gmail, Slack, and Salesforce. Qi says new AI techniques for parsing language would help Glean’s customers unearth the right file or conversation a lot faster.
But training such a cutting-edge AI algorithm costs several million dollars. So Glean uses smaller, less capable AI models that can’t extract as much meaning from text.
“It is hard for smaller places with smaller budgets to get the same level of results” as companies like Google or Amazon , Qi says. The most powerful AI models are “out of the question,” he says.
AI has spawned exciting breakthroughs in the past decade—programs that can beat humans at complex games, steer cars through city streets under certain conditions, respond to spoken commands, and write coherent text based on a short prompt. Writing in particular relies on recent advances in computers’ ability to parse and manipulate language.
Those advances are largely the result of feeding the algorithms more text as examples to learn from, and giving them more chips with which to digest it. And that costs money.
Consider OpenAI’s language model GPT-3, a large, mathematically simulated neural network that was fed reams of text scraped from the web. GPT-3 can find statistical patterns that predict, with striking coherence, which words should follow others. Out of the box, GPT-3 is significantly better than previous AI models at tasks such as answering questions, summarizing text, and correcting grammatical errors. By one measure, it is 1,000 times more capable than its predecessor, GPT-2. But training GPT-3 cost, by some estimates , almost $5 million.
“If GPT-3 were accessible and cheap, it would totally supercharge our search engine,” Qi says. “That would be really, really powerful.” “It is hard for smaller places with smaller budgets to get the same level of results” as companies like Google or Amazon.
Calvin Qi, Glean The spiraling cost of training advanced AI is also a problem for established companies looking to build their AI capabilities.
Dan McCreary leads a team within one division of Optum, a health IT company, that uses language models to analyze transcripts of calls in order to identify higher-risk patients or recommend referrals. He says even training a language model that is one-thousandth the size of GPT-3 can quickly eat up the team’s budget. Models need to be trained for specific tasks and can cost more than $50,000, paid to cloud computing companies to rent their computers and programs.
McCreary says cloud computing providers have little reason to lower the cost. “We cannot trust that cloud providers are working to lower the costs for us building our AI models,” he says. He is looking into buying specialized chips designed to speed up AI training.
Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker Part of why AI has progressed so rapidly recently is because many academic labs and startups could download and use the newest ideas and techniques.
Algorithms that produced breakthroughs in image processing, for instance, emerged from academic labs and were developed using off-the-shelf hardware and openly shared data sets.
Over time, though, it has become increasingly clear that progress in AI is tied to an exponential increase in the underlying computer power.
Big companies have, of course, always had advantages in terms of budget, scale, and reach. And large amounts of computer power are table stakes in industries like drug discovery.
“I think it does cut down innovation.” Chris Manning, professor in machine learning, Stanford Now, some are pushing to scale things up further still. Microsoft said this week that, with Nvidia, it had built a language model more than twice as large as GPT-3. Researchers in China say they’ve built a language model that is four times larger than that.
“The cost of training AI is absolutely going up,” says David Kanter, executive director of MLCommons , an organization that tracks the performance of chips designed for AI. The idea that larger models can unlock valuable new capabilities can be seen in many areas of the tech industry, he says. It may explain why Tesla is designing its own chips just to train AI models for autonomous driving.
Some worry that the rising cost of tapping the latest and greatest tech could slow the pace of innovation by reserving it for the biggest companies, and those that lease their tools.
“I think it does cut down innovation,” says Chris Manning , a Stanford professor who specializes in AI and language. “When we have only a handful of places where people can play with the innards of these models of that scale, that has to massively reduce the amount of creative exploration that happens.” Ten years ago, Manning says, his lab had enough computing resources to explore any project. “One PhD student working hard could be producing work that was state-of-the-art,” he says. “It seems like that window has now closed.” At the same time, the rising cost is pushing people to look for more efficient ways of training AI algorithms. Dozens of companies are working on specialized computer chips for both training and running AI programs.
Qi of Glean and McCreary of Optum are both talking to Mosaic ML , a startup spun out of MIT that is developing software tricks designed to increase the efficiency of machine-learning training.
The company is building on a technique developed by Michael Carbin , a professor at MIT, and Jonathan Frankle , one of his students, that involves “pruning” a neural network to remove inefficiencies and create a much smaller network capable of similar performance. Frankle says early results suggest that it should be possible to cut the amount of computer power needed to train something like GPT-3 in half, reducing the cost of development.
Culture Taylor Swift and Beyoncé Are Resurrecting the American Movie Theater Angela Watercutter Gear The Best Home Depot Black Friday Deals Matt Jancer Gear Apple’s Pledge to Support RCS Messaging Could Finally Kill SMS Boone Ashworth Business Sweden’s Tesla Blockade Is Spreading Morgan Meaker Carbin says there are other techniques for improving the performance of neural network training. Mosaic ML plans to open-source much of its technology but also offer consulting services to companies keen to lower the cost of the AI deployment. One potential offering: a tool to measure the trade-offs among different methods in terms of accuracy, speed, and cost, Carbin says. “Nobody really knows how to put all of these methods together,” he says.
Kanter of MLCommons says Mosaic ML’s technology may help well-heeled companies take their models to the next level, but it could also help democratize AI for companies without deep AI expertise. “If you can cut the cost, and give those companies access to expertise, then that will promote adoption,” he says.
📩 The latest on tech, science, and more: Get our newsletters ! The mission to rewrite Nazi history on Wikipedia Actions you can take to tackle climate change Denis Villeneuve on Dune : “I was really a maniac” Amazon's Astro is a robot without a cause The effort to have drones replant forests 👁️ Explore AI like never before with our new database 🎮 WIRED Games: Get the latest tips, reviews, and more 🎧 Things not sounding right? Check out our favorite wireless headphones , soundbars , and Bluetooth speakers Senior Writer X Topics artificial intelligence machine learning neural networks Will Knight Will Knight Khari Johnson Niamh Rowe Khari Johnson Will Bedingfield Peter Guest Aarian Marshall Facebook X Pinterest YouTube Instagram Tiktok More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Mattresses Reviews FAQ Wired Staff Coupons Black Friday Editorial Standards Archive Contact Advertise Contact Us Customer Care Jobs Press Center RSS Accessibility Help Condé Nast Store Do Not Sell My Personal Info © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights.
WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices Select international site United States LargeChevron UK Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia
