Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Cricket phone deals: Get an iPhone 11 for free and more By Andrew Morrisey Close Cricket Wireless is one of the most affordable wireless service providers, and right now they’ve got some amazing discounts on phones taking place that can easily get you onto the Cricket network. These aren’t just throwaway phones either, as they include the likes of Samsung’s, Motorola’s, and Apple’s phone lineups. Several of them are entirely free and they provide more capability than many of the best cheap phones , so read onward if you’re in the market for a really good phone at almost no cost and are looking to make Cricket your cell phone service provider.
TCL 30 Z — Free, was $90 Motorola Moto G 5G (2023) — Free, was $180 Samsung Galaxy A14 5G — Free, was $190 Samsung Galaxy A13 — $40, was $160 Apple iPhone 11 — $50, was $500 TCL 30 Z — Free, was $90 Image used with permission by copyright holder You’re not going to find a better price than free, and the TCL 30 Z is a phone worth going out of pocket for. You’re getting quite a bit of phone at zero cost with the TCL 30 Z, as it has a 6.1-inch HD+ display that provides enhanced visuals and adaptive eye care modes. The rear camera has an 8-megapixel sensor and a Google Lens, and you can capture amazing selfies with the front-facing 5-megapixel camera. This phone also has a quad-core processor and 32GB of internal storage, making it a great option if you like to interact with media online or create your own.
Motorola Moto G 5G (2023) — Free, was $180 Image used with permission by copyright holder The Motorola Moto G 5G makes the most of today’s networks with a super fast Snapdragon 480+ 5G processor, which pairs perfectly with the Cricket network. The 6.5-inch display makes content creation and binge watching about as immersive as things can get on a phone. It has a massive battery that’s made to withstand all sorts of power-consuming usage throughout the day, and the 64GB of storage space should be plenty to house your favorite apps, photos, and other content.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Samsung Galaxy A14 5G — Free, was $190 Samsung Samsung’s lineup of Galaxy phones has numerous models, with each offering something a little different. When the Samsung Galaxy A14 5G first came out we declared a $200 phone shouldn’t be this good , and right now with Cricket you’re getting all that goodness for free. This includes a 6.6-inch screen, a 50-megapixel camera, 64GB of storage space for photos and movies, and an all-around immersive experience. The Galaxy A14 offers virtually lag-free 5G connectivity and a long-lasting battery, so you can stay at work or play all throughout the day.
Samsung Galaxy A13 — $40, was $160 Samsung The Samsung Galaxy A13 was Samsung’s cheapest 5G when it was first released, and it stays true to its roots with this amazing discount. The phone provides speedy and reliable performance, smooth browsing, and fast streaming. It has fast-charging battery technology that will keep you up and running throughout the day. Its 6.6-inch screen is great for keeping in touch with friends and for browsing social media, and the 50-megapixel camera gets you in the content creation game as well.
Apple iPhone 11 — $50, was $500 Apple While there are newer generations of the Apple iPhone available, it wasn’t that long ago that the Apple iPhone 11 found itself amongst the best phones.
 This is reason alone to make it your new phone of choice, but this $50 price tag from Cricket adds even more incentive. You can shoot 4K videos and take beautiful portraits with the iPhone 11, as it features Apple’s dual-camera system. You can capture low-light photos with the popular Night Mode, and the A13 Bionic chip is great for not only photography, but for gaming and augmented reality as well.
Editors' Recommendations Best refurbished Apple Black Friday deals on AirPods, iPads, iPhones, and more This sealed-in-box iPhone can be yours for under $150 today The best iPhones in 2023: which iPhone is right for you? The best October Prime Day iPhone deals happening now This early Prime Day deal gets you an iPhone 15 for free Deals 5G Apple Apple iPhone Samsung Mobile Backmarket has one of the best iPhone deals at the moment with the iPhone 14 Pro Max available for $887, reduced from $1,099. The sizeable saving is in part thanks to this particular iPhone 14 Pro Max being a refurbished model. Don't let that put you off though. When buying through Backmarket, it's a verified refurbished model that has been through many testing processes to guarantee it's in fantastic condition. It comes with a one-year warranty too along with a free 30-day return window if you're concerned. Sound good? Here's what you need to know about the iPhone 14 Pro Max.
Why you should buy the iPhone 14 Pro Max Back when it launched, we considered the iPhone 14 Pro Max to be "nearly perfect". It has a huge 6.7-inch OLED display with a resolution of 2796 x 1290. Up to 2,000 nits of brightness are possible in the right situation while there's also a 120Hz ProMotion refresh rate to ensure silky smooth browsing and scrolling.
Mobile Samsung was the first company to bring foldable phones into the market, and while there have been a lot of other offerings from various companies, Samsung's foldables still remain at the head of the pack. In fact, one of the best foldables on the market is currently the Galaxy Z Fold 5. While it isn't as big of an upgrade compared to the Fold 4, if you're entering the foldable market for the first time and want to get the best, then the Fold 5 is the foldable to go for, especially if you're already integrated into Samsung's ecosystem.
That said, the best of the best can be very expensive, and that's true of the Fold 5. Luckily, there's a great deal directly from Samsung wherein you can save up to $1,000 worth of trade-in credit, as well as a storage upgrade from 256GB to 512GB, which is worth around $120. Even better, if you don't have or want to trade in, you can still take advantage of the storage upgrade, which is excellent since the Fold 5 doesn't have expandable storage.
Mobile If you've been wanting to get into Apple's ecosystem for a while, but have been worried about the high prices of their phones and tablets, then the Apple iPhone SE is the way to go. Billed as the first and only budget-friendly Apple phone, it lets consumers access the Apple ecosystem without spending an arm and a leg, which is a good thing. In fact, the third-generation iPhone SE came out at the beginning of this year and brought with it a lot of great upgrades.
While a relatively new iPhone doesn't often see a lot of substantial sales, we're happy to see this massive $230 discount on the iPhone SE 2022 from Best Buy. That brings the price down to a more reasonable $149 rather than the usual $379. There is a caveat, though, which is that it's part of a phone plan from Straight Talk, so you'd have to pair it with a no-contract unlimited talk, text & data plan from Straight Talk to gain access to the discount. Even so, that's not a bad deal, especially given the discount, so it's well worth grabbing while the deal lasts.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
