Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best phone plans for one person in 2023: our 6 favorites By Jesse Hollington Close Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Although it seems that the big three carriers are all about family plans these days , you don’t need to feel left out if you’re venturing out on your own. There are still great cellular plans out there for only one person at very affordable prices.
A single-line plan is often the best way to go, even when you have family members, friends, or roommates willing to join in on a plan. After all, if you’re the only person on your plan, you don’t need to worry about what other people need or be concerned that changes you make down the road could affect a larger group. Plus, if you’ve just moved to a new city or you’re heading off to college, staying on a group plan can get even more complicated.
The good news is that not only are there plenty of single-line plans available, but you can find options for every budget. Here are the best phone plans for one person you can get in 2023.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
The most accessible phone plans Mint Mobile Mint Mobile Owned by Ryan Reynolds , which you might have noticed from the commercials, Mint Mobile is explicitly designed to be online-only – with no retail stores or salespeople – and also to be simple and straightforward. Those business savings from an online-only operation are also passed back to customers. It’s also one of the most affordable wireless options on the market today.
You can bring your own number, bring your own device, or upgrade to a new one with no hidden fees or commitments. You’ll get premium wireless service with free calling to Mexico and Canada, 5G coverage at no added cost, eSIM support, and flexible data options. Various data plans are available, allowing you to choose precisely what you need, like 15GB, 20GB, or even unlimited 5G. Mint Mobile also offers free mobile hotspot access for all plans. There are no tricks or hidden terms, everything is laid out in an easy-to-read format, so you know precisely what you’re getting.
Moreover, all plans include unlimited talk and text on the nation’s largest 5G network. You’ll always be in touch with who you need to be, anywhere in the country and beyond. Did we mention they have a cute little fox logo? Sign Up at Mint Mobile The best budget phone plan Visible Visible While the big three only provide their deepest discounts on plans of four lines or more, Visible gives you a single-line plan for only $25 per month with all the basic connectivity that you need on a budget, including 5G access, unlimited data, mobile hotspot capabilities, and unlimited talking and texting to the U.S., Canada, and Mexico.
Visible is backed by Verizon’s 5G network , so you get solid and reliable nationwide coverage. The catch is that the most affordable plan limits you to Verizon’s 5G Nationwide network, so you won’t get the fastest 5G speeds available, but at up to 56Mbps, they should meet most people’s mobile needs. You also get unlimited mobile hotspot tethering, although that is limited to one connected device and speeds up to 5Mbps.
It’s also worth noting that Visible’s unlimited data is truly unlimited, with no specific threshold at which it will be throttled. However, Verizon’s network naturally prioritizes its own higher-paying customers, so Visible users may find themselves getting slower speeds during busier times. For those who need a little more, there’s also the Visible+ plan for $45 per month that provides access to Verizon’s faster 5G Ultra Wideband network with 50GB of “premium” non-throttled data each month, as well as unlimited talk, text, and data roaming in Canada and Mexico.
Sign up at Visible The best premium phone plan T-Mobile Go5G Plus Alex Tai/SOPA Images / LightRocket via Getty Images Just because carriers offer better deals for multiple lines doesn’t mean you can’t pick up a single-line plan if you’re willing to pay full price. That may be worth it if you’re looking for a top-notch plan with lots of perks, which describes T-Mobile’s Go5G Plus plan to a T (no pun intended).
At $90 per month (with the AutoPay discount), this plan doesn’t come cheap, but you get unlimited access to T-Mobile’s incredibly fast and expansive 5G Ultra Capacity network with no arbitrary data thresholds; T-Mobile guarantees full-speed data up to 100GB per month, and while it reserves the right to throttle your speeds if you go beyond that, it only does so when necessary due to network congestion.
However, that’s not all. You’re also getting 50GB per month of full-speed mobile hotspot data usage (throttled to “3G speeds” beyond that), unlimited international texting both at home and abroad, unlimited calling, and 15GB of high-speed data roaming in Canada and Mexico, plus 5GB of data roaming in over 215 other countries.
T-Mobile throws in a few other nice perks on this plan, including a single-screen subscription to Netflix Basic, a full subscription to Apple TV+, and free in-flight Wi-Fi with video streaming on Alaska Airlines and select American, Delta, and United flights.
Sign up at T-Mobile The best phone plan for perks Verizon Unlimited Welcome Verizon If you like getting a few extra perks with your cellular plan, but don’t necessarily want to be restricted to the ones your carrier picks out, then you’ll appreciate Verizon’s new MyPlan program , which features a new pricing structure that lets you pay for just the add-ons you want.
Verizon offers three tiers, but we think the Unlimited Welcome is the most competitive since it starts at $65 per month for a single line (with AutoPay and paper-free billing) and provides unlimited data on Verizon’s 5G Nationwide network, including roaming data in Canada and Mexico.
Although you’ll need to step that up to Verizon’s $80 per month Unlimited Plus plan if you want the fastest 5G Ultra Wideband speeds and mobile hotspot access, Verizon’s low-band 5G Nationwide network is fast enough for video streaming, surfing, and social media, and should be enough to satisfy most folks who just need to keep their smartphone online when they’re out in the world.
However, what makes Verizon’s Unlimited Welcome unique is that you can mix and match additional perks with $10-per-month add-ons on top of your base plan. This includes Verizon features like 100GB of mobile hotspot data or a TravelPass, as well as discounted bundles to streaming services like Disney/Hulu/ESPN+, an Apple One Individual Plan, or an Apple Music Family Plan. You’re also not locked in, so you can change these up at any time to pick the add-ons that work best for you from month to month.
Sign up at Verizon The best value phone plan AT&T Value Plus.
As the name suggests, AT&T’s Value Plus plan offers some good bang for your buck, providing unlimited data on the carrier’s higher-speed 5G+ network and roaming in Canada and Mexico for $40 a month if you sign up for AutoPay.
Unlike AT&T’s other plans, Value Plus is exclusively designed for one person, so there are no discounts for adding friends and family members even if you want to. There’s also no mobile hotspot access, but you get unlimited texting from the U.S. to over 200 countries.
While the 5G+ access is a nice perk at this price, it’s worth keeping in mind that AT&T’s C-band 5G network hasn’t spread nearly as widely as that of its rivals yet — although it does seem to be catching up.
 For now, this means you’re more likely to find yourself on the carrier’s slower, low-band 5G network. Still, the Value Plus plan is a good choice if you live in an area where AT&T delivers solid 5G coverage, and since it’s a postpaid plan, it’s very easy to switch to another AT&T plan if your needs change.
Sign up at AT&T The best phone plan for frequent travelers Google Fi Wireless Unlimited Plus Google Although free roaming in Canada and Mexico is becoming more common, serious globe-trotters will still find it complicated to use their phones outside of North America on most carriers. However, that’s not the case with Google Fi’s Unlimited Plus plan, which provides unlimited data in more than 200 countries and regions around the world, plus free Wi-Fi calling back to North America.
Your unlimited data on Google Fi is throttled to slower speeds after your first 50GB each month, but those rules are the same in every country where data roaming is supported, so you can use your phone normally at home and abroad without worrying about how much data you’re consuming. This also includes mobile hotspot data.
In addition to great international roaming and a mobile hotspot, Google Fi Wireless Unlimited Plus also lets you share your data with up to four tablets and other devices that use data-only SIMs at no extra charge and includes 100GB of Google Drive storage and VPN service with Google One and one year of YouTube Premium. You’ll pay $65 each month for one line of Google Fi’s Unlimited Plus plan, and while it’s not the cheapest option out there, it’s a great deal considering everything that comes with it.
Sign up at Google Fi Wireless Editors' Recommendations The best phones in 2023: our 15 favorite smartphones right now The best folding phones in 2023: the 6 best you can buy The best iPhone 15 Pro cases in 2023: our 14 favorites Best Google Pixel 7 Pro deals: Get one of the best phones for free The best iPhone 15 Pro screen protectors in 2023: our 8 favorites 5G AT&T Best Products Cellular Carriers T-Mobile Verizon Mobile When it comes to camera phones, the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra is the new champ. Although the competition was stiff, Samsung's latest offering emerged victorious in our head-to-head comparison with the Google Pixel 7 Pro, thanks to its exceptional software and edge in crucial categories. The Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra produces stunningly vibrant and shareable images, solidifying its status as one of the top camera phones available. Of course, if you're not partial to Samsung, there are other options to consider, such as the best Apple phone, the most cost-effective phone, and the best budget phone on the market.
At Digital Trends, we are passionate about photography and take thousands of photos every month. We enjoy comparing the performance of different phone cameras by pushing them to their limits and conducting direct camera shootout comparisons. We do this because we understand that camera quality is an important factor for most buyers. Have different priorities? We offer guides for the best overall smartphones, the best cheap smartphones, and the best old phones so you can find the right one for you.
Mobile Samsung is one of the most recognizable names in modern smartphones. It has a well-deserved reputation for offering an expansive lineup of great phones with something for just about everyone. This means if you're looking for an Android phone, you'll easily find a Samsung model that's worth considering based on your needs and budget. In fact, the number of choices can be a bit overwhelming, but the good news is that we've explored the entire range and highlighted the best Samsung smartphones you can buy in 2023.
Like its predecessor, the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra gets the nod for the best overall Samsung phone, and that's not just because it's Samsung's premium flagship device. Sure, it's the most expensive phone in the lineup, but you're getting some incredible bang for your buck with its large and gorgeous display, excellent cameras, and a new processor that offers unprecedented levels of performance. And if you're looking for something more unique, more pocketable, or more affordable, you'll find a lot of other great options on our list in every category, with links to detailed reviews for each.
Mobile Picking a new cell phone provider isn't simple. Every service provider has their own new customer cell phone plan deals, and they can get confusing. Good on you for searching for the best deal -- you're going to save some serious money in the long run. You're looking at perks like smartphone deals and 5G phone deals that could even get you a new phone for free. Below we've collected all the best cell phone plan deals from the major and minor providers. These are general plans, so if you're searching for something more specific, like the best cell phone plan for home use or the best cell phone plan for small businesses, we encourage you to continue researching after you check out the deals below.
Today’s best cell phone plan deals Note that the availability of these plans will depend on your geographic location and in some areas prices may not include additional upfront costs such as one-time activation or setup fees: Best unlimited family plan: T-Mobile Magenta Plus -- $30/month per line for three lines, taxes and fees included Best plan: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
