Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Samsung phone deals: Save on the Galaxy S23, Galaxy Z Fold 4 By Briley Kenney Close When it comes to Android, Samsung phones offer some of the best and most cohesive experiences, with well-designed devices that push the boundaries of style. If you don’t care about all of that and just want a reliable, well-designed phone, well Samsung has you covered there too. Some of the best phone deals , in general, include Samsung handsets, like the Galaxy S23, S22, and Z Fold series. But if you’re looking for a solid mix of just Samsung gear, you’ll need a better guide, and this is that guide. We’ve put together all of the best Samsung phone deals, scouring the interwebs for the absolute best of the best offers. If you’re ready to upgrade your phone or need to replace a broken one, you’ve come to the right place.
Samsung Galaxy A53 5G — $349, was $450 Samsung Galaxy S23 — $760, was $860 Samsung Galaxy S22 Ultra — $800, was $1,200 Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra — $1,000, was $1,200 Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 — $1,350, was $1,800 Samsung Galaxy A53 5G — $349, was $450 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends If you’re not into premium flagships, which is to say top-of-the-line phones, then this little stunner will serve you well. It features a 6.4-inch full-HD Super AMOLED display with beautiful color and clarity and a nearly edge-less design. But it’s also powerful with 128GB of storage, expandable up to 1TB total, thanks to the MicroSD slot. It has an Exynos 1280 processor, 6GB of RAM , and delivers 5G wireless speeds. Plus, it has a long-lasting battery that will get you through your entire day and then some under regular use. Did we mention the intelligent camera that combines an ultra-wide 12MP, 64MP standard, and 5MP depth cameras for excellent shots out in the field? Oh, and right now, it’s available at an incredible price.
Samsung Galaxy S23 — $760, was $860 Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends It’s not surprising that in our Samsung Galaxy S23 review , we called it “the Android phone for everyone” because, well, it really is. It features a sleek and compact design, and it’s comfortable for one-handed use — exactly what we love in a new phone — offers incredible performance, reliable cameras, long-lasting battery life, and much more. While the base storage leaves a little something to be desired, this particular model comes with 256GB of storage built-in, double the base model. It’s virtually everything you could want in a phone you’re using daily, with a beautiful display, solid camera, and continual software updates to keep your phone running nice and smooth. It’s also one of the latest devices from Samsung.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Samsung Galaxy S22 Ultra — $800, was $1,200 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Although it’s a bit older now, don’t be put off by the Galaxy S22 Ultra — it’s still an incredibly powerful device. That’s precisely why in our Galaxy S22 Ultra review , we described it as one of the only phones you’ll need for years to come. It features a lot of the same hardware and a lot of the same praise as Samsung’s latest devices. The S-Pen is convenient and accurate and just makes using the device better, the versatile camera takes exceptional photos, and the processor and sizable RAM combo offer good performance, even being a little older now. The beautiful display also offers a high refresh rate, so onscreen motion is fluid and responsive. The battery is also good, offering up to a full day’s worth of use on a single charge. You won’t be disappointed.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra — $1,000, was $1,200 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends In his Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra review , Andy Boxall labeled it as the “best, most complete Android phone yet” because it’s an absolute powerhouse. The processor is incredibly powerful, there’s a lot of RAM for multitasking and performance, the S-Pen adds a lot of extra value, and there are many interesting extras to explore. The large, bright, and detailed display does the S23 Ultra a lot of favors, plus it’s water-resistant and durable, and that’s before you slap a case on to protect it better.
Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 — $1,350, was $1,800 Nadeem Sarwar / DigitalTrends Our Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 review lays it out clearly. The phone is so good, it should probably be one of your next choices when it’s time to upgrade. If you’re not already familiar with the Fold series, the design is pretty revolutionary. It takes your average candybar-style phone and converts it into a phablet when unfolded. That’s right, it folds in half and unfolds to reveal a larger display. It’s fantastic for multitasking, the inner screen is great for games and media, and the reliable, fun camera is good for everyday shots. It’s also water-resistant and durable, something you don’t always see with modern phones.
Editors' Recommendations The best Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus cases: 21 you can’t ignore Designed to rival the iPad Pro, Samsung’s best tablet is $150 off The best Android phones in 2023: the 16 best ones you can buy The Samsung Galaxy S22+ is down to $439 at Walmart Try a foldable on the cheap: Get the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 4 for $405 Deals 5G Amazon Samsung Mobile If you're thinking you can get the unlocked Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 for cheap now that the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 is out, you can actually get the foldable smartphone for an even more affordable price than you expect if you're fine with refurbished phone deals. The 256GB model in Good condition is available for just $822 from Back Market, for savings of $1,178 on its original price of $2,000, but you can also get it in Excellent condition for $872. We're not sure how many units are available though, so we highly recommend completing your purchase as soon as possible.
Why you should buy the refurbished Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 The Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 may have replaced the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 as the brand's flagship foldable smartphone, but according to our Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 versus Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 comparison, last year's model remains a worthwhile purchase if you can get one with a huge discount. There are small quality-of-life improvements in this year's model like a more powerful processor and an improved hinge design, but the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 4 is still a powerhouse of a phone with its Qualcomm Snapdragon 8+ Gen 1 processor and 12GB of RAM, and its screens -- a 6.2-inch Dynamic AMOLED screen with 2316 x 904 resolution on the outside and a 7.6-inch Dynamic AMOLED screen with 2176 x 1812 resolution on the inside -- are still visually striking.
Mobile Samsung was the first company to bring foldable phones into the market, and while there have been a lot of other offerings from various companies, Samsung's foldables still remain at the head of the pack. In fact, one of the best foldables on the market is currently the Galaxy Z Fold 5. While it isn't as big of an upgrade compared to the Fold 4, if you're entering the foldable market for the first time and want to get the best, then the Fold 5 is the foldable to go for, especially if you're already integrated into Samsung's ecosystem.
That said, the best of the best can be very expensive, and that's true of the Fold 5. Luckily, there's a great deal directly from Samsung wherein you can save up to $1,000 worth of trade-in credit, as well as a storage upgrade from 256GB to 512GB, which is worth around $120. Even better, if you don't have or want to trade in, you can still take advantage of the storage upgrade, which is excellent since the Fold 5 doesn't have expandable storage.
Mobile Topping our list of the best folding phones, you can't go wrong with the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 if you want a super stylish yet practical phone that stands out from the crowd. However, it's an expensive phone so if you want to see how you can save on your purchase, keep reading. We've got everything you need to know about all the best Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 deals going on right now across the internet. Let's get straight to how you could save including discounts, trade-ins, and much more.
Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 deals at Samsung Samsung offers a free storage upgrade with select Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 devices so you get 512GB of storage instead of 256GB. It's also possible to get up to $1,000 trade-in credit depending on the phone you're trading in.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
