Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Netgear’s new M6 Pro router lets you use fast 5G anywhere you go By Jesse Hollington Close Netgear has unveiled its Nighthawk M6 Pro Mobile Hotspot Router , the most advanced mobile hotspot yet. The new portable router features the latest and fastest 5G and Wi-Fi technologies, delivering unprecedented range and performance for a wireless hotspot.
A mobile router for urban life At home or on the go As the “Pro” moniker implies, the new mobile router is an enhanced version of the previously announced M6 hotspot, adding support for connecting to extremely high frequency (EHF) mmWave 5G service and supporting Wi-Fi 6E on the client side to ensure that laptops , smartphones, and tablets can take advantage of that peak performance, even in the busiest places.
A mobile router for urban life Netgear The M6 Pro can be taken on the road to provide secure internet access in remote areas like most other hotspots, but the leading-edge wireless technology also makes it especially well-suited for use in built-up urban settings — congested downtown areas, airports, hotels, and office buildings where many other hotspots can’t cut through the storm of wireless interference.
Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free How fast is 5G? What you need to know about 5G speeds The 5G speed race is over and T-Mobile has won These are also the areas where you’re most likely to find mmWave coverage to take advantage of the M6 Pro, which can deliver 5G speeds of up to 8Gbps, with peak rates reaching an astonishing 20Gbps. Those are theoretical maximums, of course, since no carrier is capable of delivering that kind of speed even when you’re sitting right next to a transceiver, but it’s clear the M6 Pro will be ready when the carriers are.
More importantly, the use of Wi-Fi 6E means that you’ll be able to cut through the digital noise by operating on the less cluttered 6GHz Wi-Fi frequencies, ensuring a fast and stable connection that’s likely to perform better than even the best public hotspots, with speeds of up to 3.6Gbps for up to 32 devices.
More significantly, since the M6 Pro is under your control with support for the latest WPA3 encryption, unlike most public hotspots, it’s also secure from digital eavesdropping and provides a built-in firewall, so you won’t be left searching for potentially risky “free” Wi-Fi access points to get your devices online when traveling.
At home or on the go Netgear Netgear’s M6 Pro is powered by a 5,040mAh battery that promises up to 13 hours on a single charge under typical usage conditions, plus an intuitive 2.8-inch color touchscreen that lets you easily set it up and manage your Wi-Fi connections without the need to fuss with a laptop browser or mobile app.
This makes it ideal for use on the go, whether staying connected on the road or creating a bubble of secure and private Wi-Fi in a coffee shop. However, it’s also an excellent solution for use in your home or at the cottage, where you can get up to 2,000 square feet of Wi-Fi coverage by pulling out the battery and using the power adapter instead.
The M6 Pro also has a few other tricks up its sleeve. The 2.5Gbps Ethernet port allows it to be used as an internet gateway for an existing Wi-Fi network, so it can effectively serve as an ad-hoc 5G fixed wireless access router or even simply as a backup internet connection to a broadband network. The USB-C port can charge other devices from the internal battery or provide a laptop with an ultra-fast 5Gbps wired connection.
Support for the High Power User Equipment (HPUE) standard also helps the M6 Pro pick up a 5G signal in fringe areas where your smartphone or tablet may give up, and you can add external antennas if you need an extra boost in signal reception.
Netgear Netgear’s comes fully unlocked, with support for nano-SIM cards from all major 5G and 4G network operators. It’s available now on Netgear’s website for $999.
Editors' Recommendations This new MediaTek chip is about to bring 5G to a lot more devices T-Mobile still has the fastest 5G, but its rivals are catching up T-Mobile’s huge lead in 5G speeds isn’t going anywhere If you like cheap phones, you’ll love these 2 new Moto G options Live in a rural area? Verizon 5G is about to get better for you 5G Tech News Mobile Each time a new analysis of mobile network performance gets published, it’s almost a given that we’ll see T-Mobile leading the pack in terms of delivering the fastest 5G speeds. After all, the “Un-carrier” had a massive lead in deploying its 5G networks — and it hasn’t been resting on its laurels.
However, its competitors haven’t been sitting still either. While Verizon may have been starting from behind, it’s been aggressively deploying the faster 5G spectrum that gave it a nice leap in 5G performance last year. Still, Verizon and AT&T are lagging quite a bit in overall mobile network performance, and AT&T has fallen even farther behind when it comes to delivering the best 5G speeds across the nation.
Mobile Motorola may be making a play for the flagship market with the Motorola Edge 40 Pro, but budget phones are what the American monolith is best known for. While it won't be making as many waves as the latest Samsung phone or Apple iPhone launch, the newest iteration of the Moto G is always something worth paying attention to, as Motorola is a true veteran of the space and knows what makes an excellent cheap device.
Best of all, this new Moto G comes at a time when budget phone enthusiasts have never had it so good. Previously premium features are filtering down into lower-priced devices, without altering that sweet low price or the features everyone loves. That's exactly what's happening with the new Motorola Moto G Power 5G, which includes a 50-megapixel main camera lens, a larger amount of storage, and a big screen with a 120Hz refresh rate. With the big 5,000mAh battery the G Power range is known for, this could be the $300 phone to grab if you love a budget bargain.
Super-smooth motion Mobile If you’ve been on the fence about picking up one of the latest Galaxy S23 phones, some new research from Ookla may help tip the scales in Samsung’s favor.
In a new speed test report, Ookla tcompared the 5G performance specs of the Galaxy S23 models to last year’s Galaxy S22 in several countries — with some surprising results across the board.
A worthwhile 5G upgrade Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
