Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Nokia G60 5G review: a strong, but flawed, budget phone By Mark Jansen Close $359.00 Strong processor Good main lens Multiday battery life 120Hz display Buggy software Low amount of RAM Lack of camera versatility The budget smartphone market can be a tough place to shop. While there are definitely gems to be found, you’re also bound to come across a lot of duds. Worst of all, it’s not always immediately obvious which is which.
About our Nokia G60 5G review Nokia G60 5G: design Nokia G60 5G: display Nokia G60 5G: performance Nokia G60 5G: software Nokia G60 5G: camera Nokia G60 5G: price and availability Nokia G60 5G: verdict HMD Global has been toiling away in the budget and midrange phone space for some time now and has produced some of our favorite budget phones of recent years under the Nokia label. The Nokia G60 5G is its latest budget offering and offers a lot for the price point. But is it a good phone? Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free How fast is 5G? What you need to know about 5G speeds The 5G speed race is over and T-Mobile has won Yes — with some caveats. The Nokia G60 5G has a capable processor, a great display, and a solid camera. But there are some downsides as well, which you’ll want to know about before you buy. The cheap phone market is awash with devices that deliver ups and downs, and the Nokia G60 is no exception. Here’s what you can expect.
About our Nokia G60 5G review This review was written by Mark Jansen after using the Nokia G60 5G for a month on Vodafone’s U.K. 5G network. The review below is based on that month of use.
Nokia G60 5G: design Mark Jansen/Digital Trends The Nokia G60 certainly starts out strong. The recycled plastic feels solid, and while there’s a substantial weight difference between the Nokia G60 and my Google Pixel 7 Pro , it’s not noticeable unless you directly compare the two.
It’s not a beautiful phone, but it does have its own style and isn’t boring. It’s never going to rival the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra in a beauty pageant, but it’s not going to be a phone you’ll be ashamed to be seen with either. Flat edges give it a modern feel, and while there’s a sizable chin at the bottom of the display and wider bezels than on more expensive phones, it still has slim enough bezels to look good. The plastic back panel has a strange speckled texture that I’m not fond of. It looks a bit dirty, and it’s hard to shake that impression.
Previous Next 1 3 Mark Jansen/Digital Trends Mark Jansen/Digital Trends Mark Jansen/Digital Trends There’s a USB-C port at the bottom of the phone and a 3.5mm headphone jack. The volume keys and power button are on the right-hand side of the phone, and the power button doubles as a fingerprint sensor. Both are curiously high up on the frame, and this is a problem. The volume keys are prone to being accidentally pushed while in a pocket, making listening to podcasts or music quite difficult. The fingerprint sensor is also way too easy to accidentally push when picking up or holding the Nokia G60 5G, as it’s exactly where I rest my fingers. As a result, I’ve been locked out of using the fingerprint sensor more than on any other phone I’ve ever used. A good case would help to fix both of these problems, by making the buttons harder to press, and adding a raised bezel around the sensor.
You’re definitely going to want a case for other reasons too. The plastic build is durable, but it’s slippery. A case is going to be vital to add grip, and I found myself being extremely careful handling it outdoors. Anything that adds extra grip is vital here, and even a thin gel case would help a lot in that regard. The Nokia G60 5G is splash resistant with an IP52 rating , but nothing more than that.
Everyone loves a bargain, but nobody wants a phone that looks cheap. Thankfully, while there are clear areas the Nokia G60 5G cut corners to save money, the overall impression is a positive one, and it doesn’t leave the phone looking or feeling cheap.
Nokia G60 5G: display Mark Jansen/Digital Trends The Nokia G60 5G’s display is very good for the price. It’s a 6.58-inch IPS LCD panel, so it doesn’t have the deep blacks and vibrant colors of an OLED display, but it does have a 1080p resolution, and — astoundingly — a 120Hz refresh rate. This is a great addition, and it helps take the phone’s performance to a whole new level with some silky smoothness.
There’s a teardrop notch at the top of the screen, which is protected by Gorilla Glass 5. The display’s brightness is the only real flaw. It’s only rated at 400 nits, and while it’s bright enough most of the time, it struggles in bright sunlight. It’s still bright enough to be seen, just not as bright as we might like. That’s a very small flaw on an otherwise excellent display, though.
Nokia G60 5G: performance Previous Next 1 2 Digital Trends Mark Jansen / Digital Trends I didn’t expect much performance from a budget device, but the Nokia G60 surprised me. The phone is powered by the Qualcomm Snapdragon 695 5G, and it’s excellent. I tested out a number of games, including Marvel Snap , Shadowgun: Legends , and Call of Duty: Mobile (with HD textures) — and all of them ran smoothly with no lag and no obvious buildup of heat on the body. While we wouldn’t call the Nokia G60 a gaming phone by any means, the combination of a strong processor and a 120Hz display means it’s a good budget device for mobile gamers.
It is hampered by a low amount of RAM, though. The model I reviewed has just 4GB of RAM, and it really shows. Swapping between apps often results in lag, and it can take whole seconds to open some apps if they’re particularly intensive. Having just 4GB of RAM does hold the otherwise strong performance back, and there’s an international 6GB version that may hold up better. If you get the 4GB version, I would recommend restarting the device regularly, as I noticed definite improvements with regular restarts.
There’s a 4,500mAh battery inside the Nokia G60 5G that can last two days on a single charge. On days where I spent the majority of my time at a desk, using the phone largely for checking messages and TikTok sessions while making coffee, the device sat at about 75% by 5 p.m. On more rigorous days spent testing the camera, watching videos, streaming live radio, using TikTok, and playing games, the Nokia G60 5G always got through the day with battery to spare. On average, more demanding days saw the battery sitting at 30% by 11 p.m. With careful use, I can see this battery lasting two days.
Recharging is capped at 20 watts, and while that isn’t going to challenge the OnePlus 11 ’s 85W charging, it’s a respectable speed at this price, and (amusingly) the equal of the iPhone 14 ’s max charging speed. Charging from 15%, it took about two hours to get back to full. That’s far from the fastest we’ve tested, but also more than respectable for such a cheap smartphone.
Nokia G60 5G: software The Nokia G60 runs Android 12 in the guise of Android One.
 For the unfamiliar, Android One is a version of Android specifically tuned for lower-powered devices, so it fits perfectly with this phone — in theory. In practice, I came across a good number of issues that bothered me throughout my time with the Nokia G60. Bugs were fairly common, including pop-up windows for the volume controls not going away by themselves and notification bars staying open during games. I also caught the volume going down by itself when playing on the speaker. I couldn’t figure out whether this was a bug or a feature, but it annoyed me throughout my use of the phone, and I couldn’t figure out how to turn it off.
Automatic app closing is also extremely aggressive, likely due to the low amount of RAM. I noticed a lot of background apps being closed, even without a large number of other apps running. More than a few times, I would pause Pocket Casts, only for the app to be immediately dumped by Android One, so I wouldn’t be able to start it again from the notification shade. It’s a small inconvenience, but bothersome — especially if you have to wait a few seconds for the app to restart.
HMD Global offers three operating system upgrades from the launch of the Nokia G60 5G, which is a solid promise and takes the phone all the way to Android 15. Unfortunately, it’s already an Android version behind.
Android 13 launched in August 2022, and there seems to be no sign of an Android 13-flavored version of Android One yet. That sort of lag between updates isn’t uncommon with Android, but it’s particularly galling when the OS in question is about as direct from Google as it can be. I’m not sure where the holdup is, but it’s irritating that the Nokia G60 remains not updated so many months after a major release.
Nokia G60 5G: camera 1.
The Nokia G60’s main lens 2.
The Nokia G60’s ultrawide lens The Nokia G60 5G was never going to beat the top options in our best camera phones roundup , but it puts up a good fight, despite some drawbacks. The most obvious of these is that two of the three lenses are largely there for show. The 5-megapixel wide-angle lens produces mediocre shots. Details around the edges are blurred and noisy, even in optimal lighting conditions, while even the center lacks the crispness you’d get from a better ultrawide lens.
In the right lighting, you might get away with them on non-image-focused social media, but it’s otherwise a lens worth avoiding. The 2MP depth sensor, too, is just there to complement the main lens and doesn’t do much by itself. Thankfully, the main lens is good and makes up for many of these shortcomings.
Previous Next 1 6 The Nokia G60's main lens Mark Jansen/Digital Trends The main lens Mark Jansen/Digital Trends The main lens Mark Jansen/Digital Trends Night time mode Mark Jansen/Digital Trends An HDR shot using the main lens Mark Jansen/Digital Trends The same shot in portrait mode, without HDR Mark Jansen/Digital Trends The main lens weighs in at 50MP, and it’s definitely where the focus of this camera lies. Given the right lighting, it can take some good photos, but they rarely have the punchy colors you get from a Samsung smartphone. Instead, colors are more on the realistic side, and details come out well in most circumstances. With a little editing in Snapseed, you could bring out the colors and change good pictures to great pictures.
More challenging lighting does pose a problem for the Nokia G60’s camera, though. Nighttime photos are muddy and a little blurred, and it can also struggle to balance strong sunlight without HDR mode. That’s only really a problem with portrait mode, where the automatic HDR mode isn’t quite as reliable. Toggle it on and leave it on.
Previous Next 1 2 Mark Jansen/Digital Trends Mark Jansen/Digital Trends Portrait mode can be a little hit-and-miss in the fine edge detection, but it’s good overall. The selfie lens is solid, and while you can see a few missed areas around the top of my hair (above left), the overall quality is good. The picture of the sculpture (above right) shows where the edge detection has a few issues, missing some big areas. It was a challenging shot for any phone that uses edge detection, though, so I’ve cut it some slack.
The Nokia G60 5G may be nowhere near the quality of a device like the Google Pixel 6a , but it’s a standout in a price bracket where phones often struggle to provide good imagery at all. Ignore the ultrawide lens and get familiar with some editing software, and you’ll find a surprisingly good camera phone for the money here.
Nokia G60 5G: price and availability The Nokia G60 5G is available in the U.K., with prices starting from 250 British pounds. Unfortunately, it hasn’t been made fully available in the U.S., but you can import it — but not without some additional cost. It’s typically available on Amazon for $359 for the 128GB/6GB variant (on sale now for $337), which may help with the RAM issues I experienced. Unfortunately, it puts it against some tough competition. The Google Pixel 6a starts at only $90 more, and can often be found for a very competitive price now. And it seems likely that the Pixel 7a is on its way soon.
Nokia G60 5G: verdict Mark Jansen/Digital Trends In order to reach a lower price point, budget phones often have to make compromises, and the Nokia G60 5G is no different. What’s important when shopping for a budget phone is knowing which compromises you’re willing to make. The Nokia G60 5G is a deceptively powerful device, with good battery life, an excellent display, and a capable camera. But to get those qualities into a budget device, you’ll have to put up with some seriously lacking RAM, a camera suite that’s effectively a single-lens setup, and some unfortunately dodgy software.
The RAM issues are hopefully remedied in the 6GB variant available in the U.S., but that version does come with an increased cost — and as we mentioned earlier, that means the Nokia G60 5G moves into some dangerous waters. With a retail price of less than $100 more, the Google Pixel 6a is a much stronger smartphone, with a distinctive and unique design, a flagship processor, and an exceptional camera. If you can stretch to $100 more or are content to wait for sales, the Pixel 6a is a strong alternative.
The Google Pixel 6a Digital Trends Otherwise, if you’re looking for something more in line with the Nokia G60’s starting price in the U.K., then take a look at the OnePlus Nord N300 5G.
 It offers a similar package to the Nokia G60, with a slightly reduced display refresh rate, but an increased battery size and charging rate. It’s also similar-looking, making it a solid alternative for the sub-$250 market.
All elements considered, the Nokia G60 5G is a solid budget 5G smartphone. The low RAM and software issues are annoying, but they’re easy enough compromises to deal with when you consider the strong processor, excellent display, and solid battery life. The Nokia G60 5G is a good budget device that’ll appeal to budget gamers and the value-conscious alike, and it’s worth looking at — if the price is right.
Editors' Recommendations This new MediaTek chip is about to bring 5G to a lot more devices T-Mobile still has the fastest 5G, but its rivals are catching up T-Mobile’s huge lead in 5G speeds isn’t going anywhere Nokia’s newest Android phone has an unbelievably cool feature Netgear’s new M6 Pro router lets you use fast 5G anywhere you go 5G Phone Reviews Product Reviews Mobile The budget smartphone market is a bustling space right now, with great phones from Nokia and Samsung making big waves. Motorola is the unofficial king of the budget smartphone, but its throne is looking quite shaky right now. That might be why it's decided to remix some classics this year, releasing new versions of the Moto G 5G and Moto G Stylus.
While there are definitely some improvements in the 2023 versions of both phones, Motorola has also made some cutbacks for both, making these new versions remixes of past classics rather than pure upgrades. Here's everything you need to know about the Motorola Moto G 5G (2023) and Moto G Stylus (2023).
Moto G 5G (2023) Mobile Verizon plans to expand its faster 5G Ultra Wideband network to reach beyond urban and suburban centers later this year, helping to drive up performance for folks in rural areas and spearhead the growth of its fixed wireless access (FWA) broadband services.
Verizon CEO Hans Vestburg touched on these details this week in the company’s quarterly earnings call, where he lauded the rapid expansion of the carrier’s C-band coverage to reach 200 million people in just over a year “since we lit up the first site.” Mobile Each time a new analysis of mobile network performance gets published, it’s almost a given that we’ll see T-Mobile leading the pack in terms of delivering the fastest 5G speeds. After all, the “Un-carrier” had a massive lead in deploying its 5G networks — and it hasn’t been resting on its laurels.
However, its competitors haven’t been sitting still either. While Verizon may have been starting from behind, it’s been aggressively deploying the faster 5G spectrum that gave it a nice leap in 5G performance last year. Still, Verizon and AT&T are lagging quite a bit in overall mobile network performance, and AT&T has fallen even farther behind when it comes to delivering the best 5G speeds across the nation.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
