Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? OnePlus Nord N30 5G review: the best $300 smartphone in 2023? By Joe Maring Close $299.99 Nice in-hand feel Headphone jack and expandable storage 120Hz display looks great Good, reliable performance 50W charger in the box Bland, smudge-prone design Very poor camera quality Only promised a single OS update You have $300 to spend, and you need a new smartphone. What’s a person to do? If you ask OnePlus, it thinks you should buy its new Nord N30 5G.
OnePlus Nord N30 5G: design and hardware OnePlus Nord N30 5G: display and performance OnePlus Nord N30 5G: cameras OnePlus Nord N30 5G: battery and charging OnePlus Nord N30 5G: software and updates OnePlus Nord N30 5G: price and availability OnePlus Nord N30 5G: verdict Announced at the beginning of June, the OnePlus Nord N30 5G drives a hard bargain on paper. You get a 120Hz display, a huge 5,000mAh battery, fast 50W wired charging, plus features like expandable storage and a 3.5mm headphone jack — all for just $300. That sounds great, and for the most part, it is. The Nord N30 5G isn’t a complete slam-dunk for OnePlus, but if you’re ready for a new Android phone and have a tight budget, it’s well worth your attention. Make sure to check out our hand-picked list of the best Android apps , if you decide to get this phone.
The best OnePlus phones in 2023: the 6 best ones you can buy These OnePlus V Fold rumors just put the Pixel Fold to shame Here’s how fast 5G on your Samsung Galaxy S23 really is OnePlus Nord N30 5G: design and hardware Joe Maring/Digital Trends There’s good and bad to say about the OnePlus Nord N30’s hardware. Starting with what’s good, the phone is very comfortable to hold. Despite having a big 6.72-inch display, the Nord N30 is very manageable in the hand. The 195g weight isn’t too heavy, the back isn’t too slippery, and the combo of the flat edges and rounded corners make it really easy to get a good grip. A phone that feels nice to hold is important, and the Nord N30 5G excels here.
I’m also surprised by how nice the buttons feel. The volume rocker and power/lock button both have great tactility. They’re just as nice as the buttons on much more expensive phones. Furthermore, the fingerprint sensor embedded in the power button works great. It quickly registered my thumb during setup and has consistently unlocked the phone with great accuracy and speed. It being on the right side of the phone could be troublesome for anyone lefthanded, but I’ve not had any major issues with it.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends Also surprising are the dual stereo speakers. They’re loud, have a decent amount of depth, and even sound a bit better than the $800 Motorola Edge Plus (2023).
 It’s a small detail, but one I really appreciate.
OnePlus got so much right with the Nord N30’s hardware.
I also appreciate two features we rarely see on smartphones today: a 3.5mm headphone jack and a microSD card slot for expandable storage (up to 1TB). The OnePlus Nord N30 5G has them both, and although I personally don’t use either one that much, it’s a big deal for people who do want those things. And, yes, there is NFC for Google Pay.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends OnePlus got so much right with the Nord N30’s hardware … except for how it looks.
The Nord N30 5G only comes in a single color, specifically, Chromatic Gray. It’s bland, extremely glossy, and attracts fingerprints like you would not believe. Use the OnePlus Nord N30 5G for a couple of minutes, and the back looks like you haven’t cleaned it in weeks — immediately holding onto every smudge and fingerprint possible. The raised cameras on the back also like to attract plenty of dust and lint.
The Nord N30 nails it in so important areas, but OnePlus really dropped the ball with the aesthetics.
OnePlus Nord N30 5G: display and performance Joe Maring/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Taking over the front of the OnePlus Nord N30 5G is a 6.72-inch LCD display. It has a Full HD+ 2400 x 1080 resolution, 680 nits of peak brightness, and a 120Hz refresh rate. Of any specification for the Nord N30, the display is one of the most impressive.
Despite having an LCD panel, the quality of the Nord N30’s screen is great. Colors are bright and vibrant, text is plenty crisp, and not once have I found myself wishing it had more oomph.
 Sure, it’s not the most technically impressive display I’ve ever seen on a phone, but I also can’t find anything to seriously complain about.
That’s especially true of the 120Hz refresh rate. 120Hz screens are commonplace on much more expensive phones like the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra and Google Pixel 7 Pro , but getting one on a $300 smartphone is a treat. And it looks great on the Nord N30. Scrolling through apps and menus is buttery smooth, and it adds an overall sense of speed to the phone that I genuinely wasn’t expecting. The refresh rate is also adaptive, so it can scale back when you don’t need all that speed (specifically, down to as low as 30Hz). I’ve tried finding a bone to pick with the Nord N30’s screen, but at this price, I just can’t.
The Nord N30’s display is impressive.
What about the processor? OnePlus chose the Qualcomm Snapdragon 695 for the Nord N30 5G. Although it’s not the newest chip in Qualcomm’s portfolio, it’s performed very well for me. Apps? They open quickly. Websites? They load and navigate without a hitch. Games? They work just fine! Joe Maring/Digital Trends To be fair, you can feel the limitations of the 695 at times. In Duolingo, for example, lessons sometimes take a few extra seconds to load than they do on more expensive phones. And if I want to hit 60fps in Marvel Snap , I have to knock the graphics down to the Low setting. But those are incredibly small things and quirks I’ve been able to adjust to just fine. The OnePlus Nord N30 5G runs all of the apps I need it to, runs them quite well, and that’s all I can ask for. I wouldn’t recommend this be your ultimate gaming or productivity phone, but for the vast majority of folks, you should be just fine.
OnePlus Nord N30 5G: cameras Joe Maring/Digital Trends OnePlus decided to make the cameras on the Nord N30 5G quite prominent. But are they any good? Well … The main camera on the Nord N30 5G is a 108MP sensor with f/1.75 aperture. Unlike many modern smartphones, it’s important to note that there is no optical image stabilization (also known as OIS). You also get two 2MP cameras — one depth sensor and one macro camera — plus a 16MP selfie camera on the front.
Previous Next 1 8 Main camera Joe Maring/Digital Trends Main camera Joe Maring/Digital Trends Main camera Joe Maring/Digital Trends Joe Maring/Digital Trends Main camera Joe Maring/Digital Trends Main camera Joe Maring/Digital Trends Main camera Joe Maring/Digital Trends Main camera Joe Maring/Digital Trends Having a 108MP camera sounds impressive on paper, but in reality, it’s actually quite disappointing. Photos taken with the 108MP main camera often look terribly bland, with no character to speak of. It takes photos, but not particularly good ones. A lot of this is due to the lack of OIS. Even in a brightly-lit setting, it’s far too easy to get blurry, out-of-focus shots with the Nord N30. And when the lights go down, expect to see a lot of noise and a lot of blur.
Previous Next 1 6 3x zoom Joe Maring/Digital Trends 3x zoom Joe Maring/Digital Trends 3x zoom Joe Maring/Digital Trends 3x zoom Joe Maring/Digital Trends Joe Maring/Digital Trends 3x zoom Joe Maring/Digital Trends OnePlus also advertises “3x lossless zoom” for the Nord N30 5G. Since there’s no actual telephoto camera on the phone, this lossless zoom is just cropping in on the 108MP camera to get that 3x zoom effect. And it’s not very good! In very good lighting, 3x photos can look OK. But even that’s not always a guarantee. The photo of the trees is way too oversharpened, and the photo of the geese is incredibly soft. And things don’t get any better in less-than-ideal lighting, as seen in the pixelated mess with the photo of my dog laying on the bed.
Previous Next 1 4 Macro mode Joe Maring/Digital Trends Macro mode Joe Maring/Digital Trends Macro mode Joe Maring/Digital Trends Selfie camera Joe Maring/Digital Trends The 2MP macro camera is passable and a fine addition to a phone of this price. It doesn’t have the best detail I’ve ever seen, but it works. The same goes for the selfie camera. It’ll do for quick Instagram selfies or Microsoft Teams calls, but don’t expect much from it.
OnePlus Nord N30 5G: battery and charging Joe Maring/Digital Trends OnePlus has something of a reputation for offering big batteries and fast charging with its smartphones, and the Nord N30 5G doesn’t brake that mold at all.
Keeping the phone powered up is a 5,000mAh battery, and in my testing, it’s enough for about a day and a half of use per charge — sometimes two days with lighter use. A typical day with the Nord N30 5G goes like this: I start using the phone at 8:00 a.m. with 100% battery, and after racking up 3 hours and 30 minutes of screen-on time, I get to about 10:40 or 11:00 p.m. with more than 40% battery remaining. That includes over an hour of playing Marvel Snap , 30 minutes of scrolling through Twitter, nearly 40 minutes of watching YouTube TV, 30 minutes of listening to a podcast, and 15-20 minutes of Duolingo — among other things. That’s very good endurance, and it easily lasts longer than my iPhone 14 Pro.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends Also great is the OnePlus Nord N30’s charging capabilities. The phone supports 50W wired charging, and unlike so many other phones today, it comes with a charger in the box — and one that supports the full 50W speeds! Charge the OnePlus Nord N30 5G for about 30 minutes, and expect it to charge from 1% t0 80%. You need to use the included charger to get the full 50W speed, as if you use another charger, the Nord N30 takes over an hour to get up to the same 80%. While not completely ideal, just having such fast recharge speeds for a phone of this price is outstanding. Even the most expensive flagships from Apple, Samsung, and Google don’t come anywhere near the 50W recharge speed offered here. It’s a legitimately great perk to have on the Nord N30 — and one that truly sets it apart from other phones at this price.
OnePlus Nord N30 5G: software and updates Joe Maring/Digital Trends Finally, let’s talk about the software situation. The OnePlus Nord N30 5G ships with Android 13 and OnePlus’s OxygenOS 13.1 interface layered on top of it.
OxygenOS 13 has come a long way since the horrid days of its initial beta , and although it’s still not my personal favorite Android interface, it works well on the Nord N30. OxygenOS 13 is smooth, responsive, and offers ample features to keep you busy.
The notification shade looks nice and offers instant access to your brightness slider without having to swipe down twice (something that drives me crazy with a Pixel or Motorola phone). The home screen is wildly customizable — allowing you to change app icons, transition effects when swiping between home pages, and more. And there are tons of hidden features you can play with in the Settings app, including the ability to run two apps simultaneously in split-screen, being able to run apps in floating windows, and a Smart Sidebar tool that offers quick access to your favorite apps/shortcuts no matter what you’re doing.
Previous Next 1 2 Digital Trends Digital Trends Unfortunately, OnePlus drops the ball in regard to software updates. The OnePlus Nord N30 5G is promised just one Android OS update. In other words, once you get the Android 14 update , either later this year or sometime next year, that’s the only major software upgrade you’ll get. You’ll continue to receive bi-monthly security updates for a total of three years, but that’s still behind what the competition offers.
Take the Galaxy A54 as an example. Samsung’s $450 smartphone gets four major Android upgrades and five years of security updates. OnePlus’s commitment to a single software upgrade puts it in line with devices like the Moto G Power 5G — and that’s not a good thing.
OnePlus Nord N30 5G: price and availability The OnePlus Nord N30 5G is available for purchase right now for $300. You can buy the phone unlocked via Amazon or direct from OnePlus’s website. OnePlus has confirmed that the unlocked model is compatible with AT&T, Cellcom, Google Fi, Mint Mobile, T-Mobile, and Verizon.
Alternatively, the Nord N30 5G is also being sold through T-Mobile and Metro by T-Mobile in the U.S.
OnePlus Nord N30 5G: verdict Joe Maring/Digital Trends The OnePlus Nord N30 5G is not the best smartphone you can buy for $300 — though it does get very close.
The biggest sin of the Nord N30 5G is how bad its cameras are. OnePlus could have done something special here, but it didn’t. With a main camera that lacks a critical feature and two mostly useless secondary ones, this is a camera system that works in a pinch, but really nothing more beyond that. If you have $300 to spend and a good camera is important to you, the Google Pixel 6a is a far better purchase.
For some people, it doesn’t get much better than the OnePlus Nord N30 5G.
But here’s the thing. If you’re OK with sacrificing camera quality (and getting any new software beyond Android 14), the rest of the OnePlus Nord N30 is fantastic. It feels great to hold, you get classic features like a headphone jack and expandable storage, and there’s NFC for Google Pay. You’re also getting solid performance, a lovely display, long battery life, and very fast charging. That’s a huge list of positives for $300.
Not everyone will be able to overlook the camera situation — and I completely get that! But if your main concern is getting a phone that runs well, has a battery you can rely on, and a display you’ll love to look at — plus one that still works with your wired headphones — it doesn’t get much better than the OnePlus Nord N30 5G.
Editors' Recommendations Best OnePlus 11 deals: Save $100 on the Android phone New OnePlus budget phone comes packing 2 super-rare features The new OnePlus Nord CE 3 Lite is perfect if you hate expensive phones The best OnePlus 11 screen protectors: our 5 favorite ones The OnePlus 11 Concept steals the Nothing Phone’s best trick 5G OnePlus Phone Reviews Product Reviews Mobile OnePlus is back, and it's brought an incredible device with it. The OnePlus 11 has kicked off 2023 in a very strong way, and is really setting a high bar for everyone else to follow. A flagship-level Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 processor combines with 16GB of RAM, a beautiful design, and a revamped Hasselblad-tuned camera module that's as capable as it is huge. With prices starting at $699, you also don't have to break the bank to buy one of the best phones in 2023.
But even with the low price for a flagship smartphone, the OnePlus 11 isn't a phone you'll want to throw around. If you want your phone to make it through to your next upgrade without chips, cracks, or breakages, then it's worth looking at some protective options. A good case or cover can really keep your smartphone safe, shielding it from bumps, scratches, and drops. Some cases even bring extra utility to your smartphone, adding wallet capabilities, kickstands, and other useful features. Here are some of the best OnePlus 11 cases you can buy! Mobile OnePlus’ plans to launch a tablet are definitely no secret. We have seen a bunch of leaks in the past year or so that hint toward its imminent launch. Now, tipster Max Jambor has revealed that the tablet is in development and will be launched next year. The company will make its foray into the tablet market with this rumored offering called the "OnePlus Pad." Since the company competes closely with Apple’s smartphones, there’s a possibility that the OnePlus Pad may take direct aim at Apple's iPads.
Apart from smartphones, OnePlus’s portfolio includes smart TVs and wearables. With this move, OnePlus might be looking to capture the tablet market, where there is relatively less competition. Earlier reports claimed that the tablet would be launched in 2022, however, that didn’t come to fruition, and now we are looking at a 2023 launch. Jambor’s tweet did not reveal an exact launch timeline, so when the tablet will arrive exactly is still unknown.
Mobile After spending hundreds of dollars on your new smartphone, you'll want to protect your investment. The OnePlus 10 Pro boasts an IP68 rating, which means it's not only dustproof but waterproof too, safe to submerge in up to five feet or 1.5 meters of water for up to 30 minutes. While you don't need to worry about getting caught in the rain, spilling some water on it, or it taking an accidental dunk in the tub, it's still a good idea to keep your phone safe from bumps with a high-quality case or cover, particularly if you use it outdoors a lot.
Thankfully, there are numerous choices of many versatile cases and covers available on the market today. We’ve rounded up a list of the best OnePlus 10 Pro cases and covers so you can flaunt your smartphone in style while keeping it safe from harm.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
