Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News T-Mobile’s 5G is still unmatched — but have speeds plateaued? By Jesse Hollington Close Each time a new analysis of mobile network performance gets published, it’s almost a given that we’ll see T-Mobile leading the pack in terms of delivering the fastest 5G speeds. After all, the “Un-carrier” had a massive lead in deploying its 5G networks — and it hasn’t been resting on its laurels.
T-Mobile is sitting pretty A 5G expansion phase The numbers by state However, its competitors haven’t been sitting still either. While Verizon may have been starting from behind, it’s been aggressively deploying the faster 5G spectrum that gave it a nice leap in 5G performance last year.
 Still, Verizon and AT&T are lagging quite a bit in overall mobile network performance, and AT&T has fallen even farther behind when it comes to delivering the best 5G speeds across the nation.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends What’s even more unusual is that the 5G performance needle has barely moved for any of the big three carriers over the last quarter, suggesting that we may be sitting on a 5G plateau at the moment.
T-Mobile is sitting pretty According to Ookla’s latest market research , T-Mobile continues to leave its rivals in the dust in the race for median 5G download speeds, clocking in at 220.7Mbps compared to Verizon’s 132.72Mbps and AT&T’s 86.46Mbps. However, each carrier saw only modest increases over January’s numbers.
Ookla Verizon led the way in growth this time around, with a 3.7% increase in 5G download speeds, compared to T-Mobile’s 1.9% and AT&T’s 1.25% increases. Still, that’s not saying much compared to the 12% gains that T-Mobile reported in the second half of 2022 when its median 5G download speeds broke the 200Mbps barrier for the first time.
Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free How fast is 5G? What you need to know about 5G speeds The 5G speed race is over and T-Mobile has won When it came to overall download speeds across both 4G/LTE and 5G networks, all three carriers did slightly better, with T-Mobile’s score increasing to 165.22Mbps from 151.37Mbps in January, and Verizon and AT&T coming in at 75.4Mbps and 68.2Mbps, respectively. That’s about a 9% increase for T-Mobile and Verizon and a 4% increase for AT&T.
Ookla A 5G expansion phase These latest numbers seem to indicate that all three carriers have slowed down their midband 5G rollouts for the time being to focus more on bringing 5G coverage to previously unserved areas.
During 2022, Verizon and T-Mobile expanded their 5G Ultra Wideband and 5G Ultra Capacity networks to bring midband 5G coverage to areas that had previously only been able to use much slower lowband 5G.
 This resulted in noticeable increases in 5G download speeds each quarter as more 5G customers could take advantage of the faster performance offered by the higher 5G frequencies.
Dish Wireless The data from Ookla’s latest report suggests that all three carriers have shifted to expanding their 5G networks into areas where only 4G/LTE signals were available before. There’s little room — and no motivation — for carriers to improve their legacy 4G/LTE networks. Hence, the only way for overall median download speeds to increase is to get more customers away from those older networks and onto newer and faster 5G networks.
As of March 2023, Verizon’s 5G Ultra Wideband network reaches 200 million people, and T-Mobile’s 5G Ultra Capacity network boasts coverage of 260 million people, with plans to hit 300 million by the end of this year.
Midband and C-band coverage is quickly reaching saturation among existing 5G networks for those two carriers. This means we may continue to see only relatively modest improvements to their 5G speeds until more advanced 5G technologies become mainstream.
However, as their older 4G/LTE networks are superseded by 5G coverage and more customers upgrade to 5G-capable phones , the overall median download speeds will move closer to the 5G median download speeds for each carrier — and that’s likely where most of the room for growth is now.
AT&T may turn out to be a dark horse in this race as it’s sitting on midband spectrum that it has yet to deploy beyond a handful of cities.
 This more conservative approach has been holding AT&T’s numbers back, but it’s fair to say we’ll see some significant gains once its C-band rollouts begin in earnest and bring its 5G Plus network to more of its customers.
The numbers by state Before you rush out and switch carriers, it’s important to remember that this performance report measures median download speeds across the entire country. While the odds are good that T-Mobile can deliver the best 5G performance, that’s by no means guaranteed.
Thankfully, Ookla’s report provides a state-by-state breakdown of regional speeds to help you determine what these numbers will look like where you live and work.
T-Mobile continues to hold the lead in 46 states and the District of Columbia. Minnesota remains at the top of the list, where overall median download speeds saw an 11% increase from 100.83Mbps to 111.67Mbps. This was likely driven mainly through 5G expansion in the area by T-Mobile, with that provider’s median download speeds jumping from 162.56Mbps last quarter to 177.14Mbps this time.
Ookla Rhode Island jumped from seventh place in January to take the number two spot in the latest report, with overall speeds increasing by 17% to 109.3Mbps. T-Mobile subscribers in that state saw a 26% boost, from 120.84Mbps to 152.73Mbps. This bumped Illinois and New Jersey down to third and fourth place, respectively. while New York edged out the District of Columbia for fifth place, breaking the 100Mbps barrier for the first time.
Notably, even though the District of Columbia dropped to sixth place, it remains the third-fastest region for T-Mobile customers, with median download speeds of 196.89Mbps — a formidable 25% increase from its previous score of 156.72Mbps.
Kansas and Ohio remained the fastest states for T-Mobile, crossing the 200Mbps line to hit 208.45Mbps and 202.07Mbps, respectively. T-Mobile also saw gains in Ohio, Indiana, and Oregon — all of which surpassed third-place-runner-up Illinois from January.
AT&T dropped off the list of contenders entirely this time, losing its lead in Montana and Vermont to what is effectively a tie; both these states were deemed too close to call, along with West Virginia, where regional carrier FirstNet had previously led.
Alex Tai/SOPA Images / LightRocket via Getty Images Alaska was the only state with a clear winner that wasn’t T-Mobile, as regional carrier GCI took back its crown after having been tied in the last report. T-Mobile also flipped South Dakota in the latest report, delivering speeds of 102.01Mbps compared to the state’s overall median of 62.62Mbps.
On the other end of the spectrum, Mississippi remained at the bottom of the list with the slowest median download speed of 36.65Mbps — only slightly improving from 34.05Mbps in the last report. Notably, however, T-Mobile customers in Mississippi saw download speeds over three times the median, at 114.91Mbps. This was followed in ascending order by Alaska, Wyoming, New Mexico, and Vermont, all of which saw similarly modest increases except for New Mexico, where speeds jumped by 23% to 48Mbps.
For individual cities, Glendale, Arizona, blew past January’s winner, St. Paul, Minnesota, with overall median download speeds of 176.79Mbps and an impressive 239.3Mbps among T-Mobile customers. Kansas City, Missouri, and Scottsdale, Arizona, also moved into the top five, displacing Columbus, Ohio, which dropped to sixth place, and Arlington, Texas, and Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, which fell to the 18th and 19th slots, respectively.
T-Mobile was the fastest mobile operator in 88 of the top 100 cities this time around, exceeding median download speeds of 300Mbps in its three cities in North Carolina: Greensboro (354.29Mbps), Winston-Salem (349.06Mbps), and Raleigh (304.29Mbps). Verizon Wireless offered the fastest speeds in El Paso, Texas.
Editors' Recommendations This new MediaTek chip is about to bring 5G to a lot more devices T-Mobile still has the fastest 5G, but its rivals are catching up T-Mobile’s huge lead in 5G speeds isn’t going anywhere Netgear’s new M6 Pro router lets you use fast 5G anywhere you go Live in a rural area? Verizon 5G is about to get better for you 5G AT&T Cellular Carriers T-Mobile Tech News Verizon Mobile T-Mobile has just unveiled a new set of plans and perks to help both new and current customers break free of lengthy device contracts while guaranteeing you'll be able to get the best deals available on phone upgrades every two years.
Significantly, with the new plans, the "Un-carrier" promises equal treatment for all customers, whether they're coming over from another carrier or have been using T-Mobile's services for years. That's in contrast to the limited-time offers of its rivals, which often ignore their most loyal subscribers in an effort to entice others to switch carriers.
Mobile Motorola may be making a play for the flagship market with the Motorola Edge 40 Pro, but budget phones are what the American monolith is best known for. While it won't be making as many waves as the latest Samsung phone or Apple iPhone launch, the newest iteration of the Moto G is always something worth paying attention to, as Motorola is a true veteran of the space and knows what makes an excellent cheap device.
Best of all, this new Moto G comes at a time when budget phone enthusiasts have never had it so good. Previously premium features are filtering down into lower-priced devices, without altering that sweet low price or the features everyone loves. That's exactly what's happening with the new Motorola Moto G Power 5G, which includes a 50-megapixel main camera lens, a larger amount of storage, and a big screen with a 120Hz refresh rate. With the big 5,000mAh battery the G Power range is known for, this could be the $300 phone to grab if you love a budget bargain.
Super-smooth motion Mobile If you’ve been on the fence about picking up one of the latest Galaxy S23 phones, some new research from Ookla may help tip the scales in Samsung’s favor.
In a new speed test report, Ookla tcompared the 5G performance specs of the Galaxy S23 models to last year’s Galaxy S22 in several countries — with some surprising results across the board.
A worthwhile 5G upgrade Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
