Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Qualcomm’s Snapdragon X75 ushers in the next era of 5G connectivity By Jesse Hollington Close Qualcomm has just announced the Snapdragon X75, the company’s sixth-generation 5G modem that promises to push smartphones and other connected devices into the next phase of 5G technology.
5G grows up big-time It’s not just for smartphones A big step on the road to 6G The Snapdragon X75 is the successor to last year’s X70 , which is the modem found in the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 that powers this year’s most powerful 5G smartphones — including Samsung’s recently unveiled Galaxy S23 Ultra and the OnePlus 11.
 However, it’s more than just an evolution of that earlier modem system, as Qualcomm has packed in support for next-generation 5G Advanced technology along with an entirely new architecture and powerful AI features that will allow mobile devices to access better coverage and achieve even faster speeds.
5G grows up big-time Qualcomm Although existing 5G technology has already gained a lot of forward momentum over the past few years, it’s far from a static platform. In fact, 5G has been evolving , and we’re already in the third phase of 5G, which is actually the 17th major version of the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) cellular communication standards that began over 30 years ago with basic GSM.
Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free How fast is 5G? What you need to know about 5G speeds The 5G speed race is over and T-Mobile has won The first four 5G releases occurred from 2017 to 2021 and built the foundational structure of 5G technology. These standards evolved 5G into the mature and stable platform that we have today. Now that this groundwork has been laid, it’s time for 5G to move from foundational to transformational with the introduction of 5G Advanced, also known as 3GPP Release 18. This is the fourth phase of 5G, and it’s a big one — which is exactly where Qualcomm’s Snapdragon X75 comes in.
Qualcomm While the new modem chip will offer the usual improvements that come with newer and faster silicon, there’s much more to it than just raw performance. Qualcomm is taking advantage of a wide array of new capabilities that make up the new 5G Advanced standard to drive even faster multi-gigabit speeds through improved carrier aggregation and better mmWave connectivity that will minimize frequency hopping to provide more stable and reliable connections while also minimizing interference. This means faster speeds as devices can remain on the same channels more consistently. The X75 will also be able to transmit two simultaneous signals instead of just one, potentially driving even faster uplink speeds.
The Snapdragon X75 is also the first modem system with a dedicated hardware tensor accelerator. Qualcomm’s 5G AI Processor Gen 2 promises 2.5 times better AI performance compared to the first-generation chip used in last year’s X70 , which means an even more intelligent selection of the optimal frequencies for the best possible connection.
Qualcomm Combined with Qualcomm’s new software suite, this should also provide better-sustained performance for users moving around in more complex environments where maintaining 5G connectivity has traditionally been a challenge, such as in elevators, subway trains, airports, and parking garages. There’s also support for enabling 5G and 4G Dual Data on two SIM cards simultaneously, along with even more power efficiency improvements to allow for extended battery life and longer run times.
Naturally, there’s support for Snapdragon Satellite.
 While that’s technically also supported in the X70 used in the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2, Qualcomm has already told us not to expect to see it before the second half of this year, which is also around the time the Snapdragon X75 is supposed to begin appearing in next-generation phones.
It’s not just for smartphones Qualcomm The Snapdragon X75 goes well beyond being merely a smartphone chip. It’s the next big push to bring 5G connectivity into the mainstream. It’s the foundation of Qualcomm’s Fixed Wireless Access Platform Gen 3, which uses mmWave, Sub-6GHz, tri-band Wi-Fi 7, and 10Gb Ethernet to deliver multi-gigabit broadband speeds to all your home devices over 5G — with latency that’s comparable to traditional fiber connections.
It’s also expected to power a new generation of private 5G networks for university campuses , resorts , retail malls , industrial plants, connected cars , and much more.
 Working in tandem with the Snapdragon X35 announced earlier this month, Qualcomm’s newest chips are taking the next step into a fully connected world.
A big step on the road to 6G Like the LTE Advanced of the last generation, 5G Advanced is also the first major step on the road to 6G technology.
 The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and network operators are already making plans for this next big leap , and while 5G Advanced is not at all the same as 6G, it does pave the way by giving operators a head start on adopting the more advanced technologies that will make up the 6G standard.
In fact, 3GPP, the group that manages all of the cellular standards that grew out of GSM, is expected to draft the 6G requirements as part of the very next major standards update, 3GPP Release 19, which is expected to arrive sometime next year alongside the next phase of 5G Advanced. A 6G study will begin with Release 20 around 2025/2026, after which the foundational 6G standard is expected to be drafted and ready to begin rolling out by 2028. These standards will be built upon the 5G Advanced technology we’re seeing today in Qualcomm’s X75, and there’s little doubt that Qualcomm is going to remain ahead of the curve on the march toward even more immersive wireless communication technologies.
Editors' Recommendations This new MediaTek chip is about to bring 5G to a lot more devices T-Mobile still has the fastest 5G, but its rivals are catching up T-Mobile’s huge lead in 5G speeds isn’t going anywhere Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 4 Gen 2 brings faster 5G to budget phones Netgear’s new M6 Pro router lets you use fast 5G anywhere you go 5G Qualcomm Tech News Mobile Verizon plans to expand its faster 5G Ultra Wideband network to reach beyond urban and suburban centers later this year, helping to drive up performance for folks in rural areas and spearhead the growth of its fixed wireless access (FWA) broadband services.
Verizon CEO Hans Vestburg touched on these details this week in the company’s quarterly earnings call, where he lauded the rapid expansion of the carrier’s C-band coverage to reach 200 million people in just over a year “since we lit up the first site.” Mobile Each time a new analysis of mobile network performance gets published, it’s almost a given that we’ll see T-Mobile leading the pack in terms of delivering the fastest 5G speeds. After all, the “Un-carrier” had a massive lead in deploying its 5G networks — and it hasn’t been resting on its laurels.
However, its competitors haven’t been sitting still either. While Verizon may have been starting from behind, it’s been aggressively deploying the faster 5G spectrum that gave it a nice leap in 5G performance last year. Still, Verizon and AT&T are lagging quite a bit in overall mobile network performance, and AT&T has fallen even farther behind when it comes to delivering the best 5G speeds across the nation.
Mobile Motorola may be making a play for the flagship market with the Motorola Edge 40 Pro, but budget phones are what the American monolith is best known for. While it won't be making as many waves as the latest Samsung phone or Apple iPhone launch, the newest iteration of the Moto G is always something worth paying attention to, as Motorola is a true veteran of the space and knows what makes an excellent cheap device.
Best of all, this new Moto G comes at a time when budget phone enthusiasts have never had it so good. Previously premium features are filtering down into lower-priced devices, without altering that sweet low price or the features everyone loves. That's exactly what's happening with the new Motorola Moto G Power 5G, which includes a 50-megapixel main camera lens, a larger amount of storage, and a big screen with a 120Hz refresh rate. With the big 5,000mAh battery the G Power range is known for, this could be the $300 phone to grab if you love a budget bargain.
Super-smooth motion Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
