Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Here’s how fast 5G on your Samsung Galaxy S23 really is By Jesse Hollington Close If you’ve been on the fence about picking up one of the latest Galaxy S23 phones, some new research from Ookla may help tip the scales in Samsung’s favor.
A worthwhile 5G upgrade Mixed results elsewhere Your mileage may vary In a new speed test report , Ookla tcompared the 5G performance specs of the Galaxy S23 models to last year’s Galaxy S22 in several countries — with some surprising results across the board.
A worthwhile 5G upgrade Andy Boxall / Digital Trends In the U.S., Ookla found that the Galaxy S23 models generally outperformed their S22 equivalents by a healthy margin when it came to median download speeds. The Galaxy S23 saw a 21% performance gain over the Galaxy S22, while the Galaxy S23 Ultra showed 16% faster download speeds when compared to last year’s Galaxy S22 Ultra.
Ookla Specifically, the median download speed for the Galaxy S23 Ultra was measured at 187.83Mbps, while the Galaxy S22 Ultra came in at 161.87Mbps. The report also pegged the Galaxy S23 Ultra as the fastest across all six models. Surprisingly, the Galaxy S22 Plus edged out the Galaxy S22 Ultra, at 167.04Mbps versus 161.87Mbps, for the title of more powerful flagship.
Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free How fast is 5G? What you need to know about 5G speeds Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 price: here’s exactly how much it costs While a 20% increase in 5G performance may not be enough to tip the scales if you’re already happy with your Galaxy S22 , Ookla adds that you “shouldn’t hesitate to upgrade” if you’re looking for other features offered by the newer models.
Mixed results elsewhere It wasn’t all sunshine and roses, though. In an unusual twist, Ookla found the speeds of the Galaxy S23 Plus and S22 Plus “were statistically too close to call,” coming in at 166.85Mbps and 167.04Mbps, respectively.
Since the entire Galaxy S23 lineup features the same Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy platform — a bespoke and souped-up version of the standard Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 that also includes Qualcomm’s powerful Snapdragon X70 5G modem — there’s no reason the Galaxy S23 Plus should perform that much differently from its other S23 counterparts.
Although there could be differences in the internal antenna design that might account for the lower performance, this is more a result of Ookla’s Speedtest Intelligence methodology.
 Performance metrics such as these are gleaned from folks who voluntarily test their network connections using Ookla’s Speedtest app. This means the data is only as accurate as the number of tests that are performed on a given device. Where those tests are performed is also a factor.
Ookla notes that over 10 million tests are run by users each day, which gives more than enough data to produce a statistically relevant analysis. However, the complex nature and variety of 5G deployments leaves room for these numbers to get a bit skewed.
This becomes more apparent when you put it up against the results from other countries in Ookla’s analysis. For instance, in Germany, the Galaxy S23 Plus ran circles around every other model, clocking in at 174.74Mbps. That’s 23% faster than the Galaxy S23 Ultra, and a 36% advantage over the Galaxy S22.
Ookla It’s worth noting that the Galaxy S23 models sold in Germany differ from the U.S. version, however, that’s mostly related to the low-band 5G frequencies that are unlikely to be delivering these kinds of speeds anyway. Ookla also discovered “seriously fast 5G speeds” among Brazilian Galaxy S23 users, reaching a peak of 494.18Mbps, once again measured on the Galaxy S23 Plus. Germany and Brazil share the same “global” Galaxy S23 models, which lack mmWave support, which means that the country has some impressively fast midband 5G coverage.
On the flip side, Galaxy S23 users in China saw no real improvement in 5G performance over the Galaxy S22 models. However, the S23 Plus wasn’t included in these stats as Ookla says it “didn’t meet the statistical threshold,” which likely means Ookla hasn’t collected enough speed test measurements from that particular model.
South Korea delivered the fastest Galaxy S23 5G performance overall, with a peak of 584.08Mbps on the Galaxy S23 Ultra. That’s not as surprising as it seems, though, since Samsung sells a specific Korean model of its Galaxy S-series phones that only support the faster 3.5 and 3.7GHz midband frequencies used in that country. Hence, there’s no low-band 5G to drag the median speeds down.
Your mileage may vary While Ookla’s report offers up some interesting metrics, it’s important to remember that these are median download speeds across all carriers throughout an entire country. Statistically, the Galaxy S23 models offer faster 5G performance than their predecessors, but that’s to be expected as they include more advanced and modern 5G model chipsets and processors.
However, in the real world, your performance will be determined more by your carrier and what kind of 5G coverage is available where you live and work. T-Mobile and Verizon subscribers who are covered by their carrier’s 5G Ultra Capacity and 5G Ultra Wideband networks, respectively, will likely see speeds similar to what Ookla is reporting. However, if your Galaxy S22 shows a plain “5G” icon on your phone most of the time, unadorned by a UC, UW, or plus suffix, upgrading to a Galaxy S23 is not going to make nearly as much of a difference.
Editors' Recommendations Samsung Galaxy S24: news, rumored price, release date, and more Fixing your broken Samsung phone is about to get easier How one bad decision is ruining all of Samsung’s new phones Samsung messed up the Galaxy Z Flip 5’s most important feature This tiny Android phone almost ruined the Galaxy S23 Ultra for me 5G Samsung Tech News Mobile The Samsung Galaxy Note changed the mobile industry when it arrived, and it became a firm favorite with a lot of people. Its committed, passionate fanbase is perhaps only rivaled by those who love the iPhone.
But all that was a long time ago, and now in mid-2023, I’m very glad Samsung killed the Note when it did.
The Samsung Galaxy Note needed to die Galaxy Note 10 Plus (left) and Galaxy Note 20 Ultra (right) Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Mobile It's been about five months since the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra hit the scene. In the time since then, the S23 Ultra has made it obvious why it's one of the best smartphones money can buy. It looks great, has incredible performance, and has one of the most versatile cameras on the market.
Although the Galaxy S23 Ultra isn't my main Android phone these days, it is one that I love coming back to — and for one reason. The camera! The entire camera system on the Galaxy S23 Ultra has proven its worth time and time again, and over the course of this year, one aspect of it has stood out among every other phone I've used.
The telephoto camera is too good Mobile It’s official — Samsung’s next Galaxy Unpacked event will be on July 26, 2023, in Seoul, Korea. And boy, this will be a jam-packed event. We’re going to see the next generation of Samsung's foldables, smartwatches, and tablets. So, let’s break it all down.
Here’s everything we’re expecting to see at the Samsung Galaxy Unpacked July 2023 event — from the Galaxy Z Fold 5, new Galaxy Watch 6, and everything in between.
Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
