Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Features Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Steve Jobs was wrong. Having a stylus for your phone is great By Christine Romero-Chan Close Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Back in the day, before the iPhone, there were a plethora of personal digital assistant (PDA) devices that had styluses. Whenever you pulled out that stylus from your Palm or other PDA, you may have felt cool, and people would think, “Wow, that guy means serious business.” A less smudged screen and easier navigation You can be more precise Great for handwriting or sketching on the go Easy picture-taking and other media control It’s really just about the convenience But when Steve Jobs took the stage for the original iPhone reveal back in 2007, one of the things he said was, “Who wants a stylus? You have to get ‘em, put ‘em away, you lose ‘em.” Ever since the iPhone introduced smart multitouch displays that needed only your finger, pretty much every other smartphone company followed suit.
These days, it’s hard to find a smartphone that still has a stylus. In fact, off the top of my head, the only ones that really come to mind right now are the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra and the Moto G Stylus 5G (2023) that I recently reviewed.
Can an Android phone replace my iPhone? I found out Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free Fixing your broken Samsung phone is about to get easier I’ve been an iPhone user for over a decade, and I’ve only been dipping my toes in the world of Android for less than a year. But after my time with Motorola’s Moto G Stylus 5G , I realized something. I actually like having a stylus! Here’s why.
A less smudged screen and easier navigation Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends Jobs had a point — the best pointing device in the world is our fingers, and we don’t need any extra accessories when we have 10 of them built into our hands. But I’m on my iPhone 14 Pro most of the day, especially when I’m trying to complete the monthly quest pass in my Disney Emoji Blitz game, and I have noticed one thing: my phone’s screen is absolutely gross by the end of the day. It’s covered with smudges that match up with all of the swipes and taps that I do when playing or just using my phone regularly.
I’m not sure if it’s just me, but I can’t be the only one out here with a smudged-up screen after a few hours, right? I often find myself furiously trying to wipe away the smudges on my shirt or leggings when I’m out and about, only to sometimes just end up with a cloudier screen (if it makes any difference, I use a screen protector). At home, I tend to use my Whoosh cleaning cloths multiple times a day to get a pristine screen again.
With the Moto G Stylus 5G , I noticed that after primarily using the stylus for navigation, the screen would be less smudged up than if I were to use my fingers. It ends up looking cleaner after extended use, and there are fewer times I need to wipe the screen throughout the day. Basically, one less thing I need to worry about, though I do have to remember to put the stylus back in the slot (but that hasn’t been a problem for me).
You can be more precise Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends Sometimes I feel like I have “fat finger syndrome,” where I accidentally tap on something that was next to what I intended to tap on. This is especially true if the developers of apps made the target tap zone smaller than it should be.
With a stylus, I’ve found that it’s harder to make those accidental taps on things because the finer tip of the stylus is more precise. It’s easier for me to close out of those annoying pop-up ads in mobile games and websites, for example, because sometimes I accidentally tap on the advertisement itself, which I never want.
And while I’m not a heavy mobile gamer these days, there are definitely certain games that benefit from the precision that a stylus offers — especially if you have the Galaxy S23 Ultra with the S Pen.
Great for handwriting or sketching on the go Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends Handwriting feels like a lost art these days. I hardly ever pull out a pen and piece of paper now, but I used to love writing with a high-quality pen in a fancy notebook. In fact, I don’t handwrite anything enough anymore, so when I actually do need to write something, it feels like chicken scratches.
I think using the Moto G Stylus 5G made me kind of reminisce about those days when I used to use a pen and paper. When you pull the stylus out of the Moto G Stylus 5G , it automatically brings up a menu of shortcuts that would benefit from the stylus, including an empty note. I’ve found myself just pulling the stylus out when I’m bored sometimes just to sketch or doodle, and if I need to write something down, I like the feel of jotting it down with the stylus. It might seem silly, but it’s one of those things I can’t quite replicate the same way with a fingertip.
It’s also just convenient to have a smartphone with a stylus so you can easily sign any documents digitally. Yes, it’s something that is easier to do on a larger screen device like a tablet , but what if you don’t have your tablet on you? Having a phone with a stylus would be great for those times you have to electronically sign a document.
Easy picture-taking and other media control Andrew Martonik/Digital Trends Though I don’t have experience with it myself, the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra’s S Pen has several different remote features, including photo capture, media playback, using certain app actions, and even unlocking your device via the stylus.
I love the idea of having a stylus be used as a way to capture photos, mostly. I have small hands, so the large phone sizes these days can make taking a selfie a struggle for me. Even my iPhone 14 Pro , which is the smallest iPhone size, is pretty difficult if I didn’t have a PopSocket on. I would love to be able to just hold the phone with one hand and then press a button on a stylus in my other hand to capture a selfie because then I don’t have to try finger gymnastics or keep turning the timer on.
Though the main draw for me would be the photo taking, the S Pen also having the other functionality is nice too. I can imagine just scribbling down something or just using the S Pen for navigation, and with a push of the button on the stylus, I can play or pause my audio without skipping a beat.
It’s really just about the convenience Joe Maring/Digital Trends I feel like I’m in the minority here, especially among my colleagues. But using a phone with a stylus — even a budget one that doesn’t have the fancy active stylus features of the S23 Ultra S Pen — made me appreciate having one around.
Personally, I just like the precision they offer, fewer smudges all over my screen, and the lost art of just handwriting or doodling on the go without a full-fledged tablet. And if you go all out with the S Pen, just being able to use it as a remote control for multiple functionalities just seems like a nice feature to have.
Jobs may have hated styluses and convinced everyone else to think that way, too, for the most part, but maybe they should come back.
Editors' Recommendations When is my phone getting Android 14? Here’s everything we know You need to hear the crazy origin story behind this Samsung phone Samsung just did something strange to its newest Android phone Samsung just announced another new phone (and two Android tablets) I was totally wrong about 2023’s best folding flip phones 5G Android Features Samsung Mobile Following Apple's recent iPhone 15 event, Motorola has launched a line of impressive new smartphones that offer sleek, modern designs at affordable prices. The Motorola Edge 40 Neo, Moto G84 5G, and Moto G54 5G are available in several markets, including the United Kingdom.
With a starting price of 300 British pounds ($375), the Motorola Edge 40 Neo is a slim device with curved edges and IP68 protection for added durability. It features a 50MP Ultra Pixel camera sensor with all-pixel focus technology, which should offer solid photo quality. The camera also provides 16x faster lowlight performance, making it perfect for nighttime photography.
Mobile In all the fuss over the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 and Galaxy Z Fold 5, you may have forgotten Motorola also recently released some foldable phones of its own. The Motorola Razr (2023) and Motorola Razr Plus (confusingly known as the Razr 40 and Razr 40 Ultra, respectively, in the U.K.) are two flip foldables well worth your attention. But there's something special about this duo. While the Razr Plus is a flagship phone with a lot in common with the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5, the Razr (2023) is rumored to be something we haven't seen in a foldable yet -- a true, honest-to-god midrange phone.
While U.S. pricing and availability haven't been confirmed for Motorola's new foldable, the odds are it'll fall somewhere around the $600 to $800 price range. While not exactly an affordable phone by most metrics, it's likely to have the cheapest MSRP of any foldable sold in the U.S. to date.
Mobile I try a lot of smartphones, and I like it when one gives me a good feeling the moment I get it out of the box and start using it. The Oppo Reno 10 managed to do exactly that, with its unusual camera module design, curved screen, and sparkly, yet modern color scheme.
But after playing with the software and taking it out to snap some photos, have I continued to warm to the Reno 10? Out taking photos with the Reno 10 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
