Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Here’s another big reason why T-Mobile 5G dominates AT&T and Verizon By Jesse Hollington Close T-Mobile continues to command a massive lead in offering the best 5G experience among U.S. carriers. A few weeks ago, a report from Ookla revealed that T-Mobile is leaving its rivals in the dust ; now Opensignal has confirmed that not only is the Un-carrier’s lead increasing in raw speeds, but it’s leading the way in taking 5G into the mainstream.
Reaching for the best 5G coverage T-Mobile 5G is getting even faster Verizon still has a slight edge in one area The 5G race is now a marathon rather than a sprint According to Opensignal’s latest 5G Experience Report , T-Mobile not only offers the fastest 5G experience in the U.S. by a sizeable margin but on average, customers on T-Mobile spend nearly 50% of their time on the carrier’s 5G network.
Reaching for the best 5G coverage NurPhoto / Getty Images Specifically, Opensignal notes that users of T-Mobile’s 5G service connect to 5G 49.7% of the time. While that still means there are large areas out of the reach of T-Mobile’s 5G service, that availability is nearly 30 percent better than the second-place contender, AT&T (20.5%), and an order of magnitude better than what Verizon customers experience, which is only being connected to 5G around 8.8% of the time.
Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free How fast is 5G? What you need to know about 5G speeds The 5G speed race is over and T-Mobile has won Unlike 5G performance, where T-Mobile lands in a close second in some states, T-Mobile wins on availability in every one of the 49 states where Opensignal conducted its analysis (Alaska was not on the list, for whatever reason).
Opensignal T-Mobile also had a healthy lead when it came to 5G Reach, a metric that measures how often everyday users get 5G in the places that matter most to them, with a score of 8.3 out of 10, compared to AT&T’s 5.9 and Verizon’s 3.8. However, while T-Mobile still held the advantage for 5G Reach in 48 states, it was virtually neck-and-neck with AT&T in Arkansas.
In practical terms, this means that T-Mobile users connect to a 5G network in more than eight out of ten locations they visit.
While Opensignal’s latest 5G Experience Report covers all flavors of 5G — low-band , midband , and mmWave — a July 2022 report revealed that T-Mobile 5G customers were likelier to find themselves spending time on its fastest 5G Ultra Capacity network. In those comparatively fewer places where 5G service is available on AT&T and Verizon, you still may be getting low-band 5G, which offers speeds that aren’t much better than 4G/LTE service.
T-Mobile 5G is getting even faster Joe Maring / Digital Trends Not surprisingly, T-Mobile is way out in front when it comes to offering the fastest 5G download speeds. Confirming what we heard from Ookla earlier this month, Opensignal reports that T-Mobile users experience average 5G download speeds nearly 100Mbps faster than on Verizon.
While the 186.3Mbps speeds measured by Opensignal weren’t quite as impressive as the 216.56Mbps that Ookla reported, the averages were consistent across all three carriers, meaning the spread was about the same. Verizon came in at 84.9Mbps, and AT&T clocked in at 71.1Mbps.
The race was much tighter when it came to upload speeds. T-Mobile averaged 17.9Mbps, while Verizon came in a close second at 16.1Mbps, and AT&T trailed behind at 12.2Mbps. Interestingly, Opensignal notes that Verizon has closed the gap slightly in this area, from 3.8Mbps in the last report to only 1.9Mbps this time around.
Verizon still has a slight edge in one area Opensignal Although T-Mobile is well ahead in raw speed and coverage, Verizon did edge it out in the experiential metrics: 5G video, gaming, and voice app performance.
When it comes to the 5G Video Experience, Opensignal declared Verizon the sole winner — but only by a hair. Verizon scored 67.2 out of 100, while T-Mobile was only 0.3 points behind at 66.9. AT&T lagged behind at 60.5. 5G Video Experience is intended to determine how well adaptive bitrate streaming works over 5G to provide smooth video streaming in resolutions of up to 4K.
Verizon continued to hold its lead in the 5G Games Experience and 5G Voice App Experience categories. It’s still the only carrier in the U.S. where users deem their gaming experience as acceptable and relatively lag-free and where users report no significant quality impairments when conducting calls over mobile voice apps such as WhatsApp, Skype, and Facebook Messenger.
The 5G race is now a marathon rather than a sprint Alex Tai/SOPA Images / LightRocket via Getty Images It’s been over a year since AT&T and Verizon got the green light to roll out their new C-band spectrum.
 This initiative promised to deliver faster 5G performance and greater capacity to many more areas throughout the U.S.
The C-band rollouts did deliver well on that promise at the outset, particularly for Verizon, which used it to expand its 5G Ultra Wideband network to more than 100 million people in 1,700 cities practically overnight — a considerable boost to the formerly pure-mmWave network that had been confined to the downtown cores of around 82 cities.
However, T-Mobile was already well ahead of both Verizon and AT&T thanks to the midrange 2.5GHz spectrum it picked from its early 2020 merger with Sprint.
 While the other two carriers were still waiting for the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to free up some new midrange spectrum, T-Mobile already had a sizeable chunk of those frequencies that it began rolling out nearly two years earlier.
While many analysts expected the new C-band spectrum would quickly level the playing field , allowing the other carriers to catch up to T-Mobile, that hasn’t happened yet. Verizon hasn’t expanded much beyond its initial aggressive C-band push in early 2022, and AT&T has taken an even more conservative approach, rolling out C-band as part of its 5G+ network to only a handful of cities. By all reports, AT&T is biding its time until it can deploy a less controversial C-band spectrum that won’t risk interference with aviation equipment, at which point it may begin to at least catch up to Verizon.
However, T-Mobile hasn’t been sitting still in the meantime. The Un-carrier is continuing to build out its fastest 5G Ultra Capacity network, which already covers 260 million people and is expected to reach 300 million by the end of 2023.
Editors' Recommendations This new MediaTek chip is about to bring 5G to a lot more devices T-Mobile still has the fastest 5G, but its rivals are catching up T-Mobile’s huge lead in 5G speeds isn’t going anywhere Your Verizon plan just got a major overhaul — here’s what’s new Netgear’s new M6 Pro router lets you use fast 5G anywhere you go 5G AT&T Cellular Carriers T-Mobile Tech News Verizon Mobile Verizon plans to expand its faster 5G Ultra Wideband network to reach beyond urban and suburban centers later this year, helping to drive up performance for folks in rural areas and spearhead the growth of its fixed wireless access (FWA) broadband services.
Verizon CEO Hans Vestburg touched on these details this week in the company’s quarterly earnings call, where he lauded the rapid expansion of the carrier’s C-band coverage to reach 200 million people in just over a year “since we lit up the first site.” Mobile T-Mobile has just unveiled a new set of plans and perks to help both new and current customers break free of lengthy device contracts while guaranteeing you'll be able to get the best deals available on phone upgrades every two years.
Significantly, with the new plans, the "Un-carrier" promises equal treatment for all customers, whether they're coming over from another carrier or have been using T-Mobile's services for years. That's in contrast to the limited-time offers of its rivals, which often ignore their most loyal subscribers in an effort to entice others to switch carriers.
Mobile Each time a new analysis of mobile network performance gets published, it’s almost a given that we’ll see T-Mobile leading the pack in terms of delivering the fastest 5G speeds. After all, the “Un-carrier” had a massive lead in deploying its 5G networks — and it hasn’t been resting on its laurels.
However, its competitors haven’t been sitting still either. While Verizon may have been starting from behind, it’s been aggressively deploying the faster 5G spectrum that gave it a nice leap in 5G performance last year. Still, Verizon and AT&T are lagging quite a bit in overall mobile network performance, and AT&T has fallen even farther behind when it comes to delivering the best 5G speeds across the nation.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
