Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News T-Mobile is leaving AT&T and Verizon in the 5G dust By Jesse Hollington Close Ookla has just published its latest market report revealing where U.S. mobile carriers and smartphone manufacturers stand in terms of providing the best 5G and 4G/LTE services.
T-Mobile pulls even farther ahead Midband coverage remains key The numbers by state The fastest smartphones Not surprisingly, T-Mobile remained in the top spot during the fourth quarter of 2022, eclipsing its rivals when it comes to median download speeds. What may be more surprising is that T-Mobile has increased its lead, clocking in at 151.37Mbps overall and 216.56Mbps for 5G, breaking the 200Mbps barrier for median 5G speeds across all bands for the first time.
Alex Tai/SOPA Images / LightRocket via Getty Images AT&T and Verizon still saw some modest performance gains during the quarter, coming in at 65.57Mbps and 69.01Mbps, respectively, but it’s obvious they haven’t come close to catching up to T-Mobile, which had a commanding head start in entering the all-important midrange spectrum.
T-Mobile pulls even farther ahead Despite its early lead, it’s clear the “un-carrier” hasn’t been resting. T-Mobile has continued to expand its Ultra Capacity 5G network to bring faster speeds to more people. The faster and better version of T-Mobile’s 5G now covers 260 million people, and the company plans to expand that to 300 million — 90% of the U.S. population — by the end of this year.
Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free How fast is 5G? What you need to know about 5G speeds The 5G speed race is over and T-Mobile has won T-Mobile also recently played another ace it was holding, repurposing some older 1.9GHz PCS spectrum to add an additional layer to its Ultra Capacity 5G service. These 1.9GHz frequencies were once used by T-Mobile’s predecessor, VoiceStream Wireless PCS, to provide 2G and 3G services, but as more customers move to 5G-capable devices and 3G networks ride off into the sunset , they’ve become ideal for carrying 5G to the masses.
It’s an ironic and amusing twist considering this same 1.9GHz spectrum once left VoiceStream at a disadvantage against its rivals, which at the time could offer much more expansive 2G/3G coverage with their low-band 800MHz spectrum.
NurPhoto / Getty Images Nevertheless, the results speak for themselves, with T-Mobile’s overall median download speeds jumping by an impressive 30%, from 116.14Mbps in the third quarter of 2022 to 151.37Mbps in the fourth quarter. While the increase was less when it came to pure 5G speeds — 193.06Mbps to 216.56Mbps, or only 12% — it’s still nearly double the growth of its rivals.
As usual, Verizon was in second place, but it remains a pretty distant second. Overall median download speeds were 69.01Mbps, a 16% increase from its previous 59.67Mbps score , while 5G download speeds grew by only 6.8%, from 119.8Mbps in the third quarter 2022 to 127.95Mbps in the fourth quarter.
AT&T was just behind Verizon for overall download speeds, clocking in at 65.57Mbps, up from 54.64Mbps in the quarter before , but its median 5G download speeds remain pretty disappointing, increasing only 5% to 85.39Mbps from the previous 81.22Mbps measurement.
Midband coverage remains key Midband and near-midband spectrum remain the driving force behind the growth of cellular speeds across the U.S. While 4G/LTE speeds have been somewhat stagnant over the past few years, the expanded rollout of these faster 5G frequencies is pulling up the median speeds, especially as more customers upgrade to 5G-capable phones.
Verizon gained a considerable boost early last year when it was finally able to deploy its new midrange C-Band spectrum.
 However, the numbers show that things have mostly stabilized for the carrier since then. AT&T has also purchased a chunk of this spectrum, but the carrier has been much more conservative in rolling it out to only a few cities , which accounts for the much lower numbers of its network.
Dish Wireless However, this may soon change in AT&T’s case. While Verizon put all of its resources into deploying its initial C-band spectrum — which wasn’t surprising considering it paid $45 billion to acquire it — AT&T has hedged its bets with some less controversial midband spectrum that it’s only begun rolling out more recently. As a result, we may see AT&T’s numbers start to rise more significantly by the time the next market research reports are published.
Meanwhile, T-Mobile has been putting its eggs in more than one basket. Its midband 5G network was up and running well ahead of the rest thanks to the 2.5GHz spectrum it acquired from its 2020 merger with Sprint.
 T-Mobile subsequently dropped $9.3 billion in the 2021 C-band auction with the intention of using some of that 3.7GHz to 3.98GHz spectrum to supplement its 2.5GHz network to provide coverage in denser population centers. Now it’s using the aforementioned 1.9GHz PCS spectrum to expand its Ultra Capacity 5G network to even more people, and it’s been playing with other technologies to break the 3Gbps barrier without using extremely short-range mmWave frequencies.
The numbers by state T-Mobile may be the fastest carrier nationwide, but it’s important to remember that this is in terms of median download speeds across the entire country. In other words, while you’re more likely to get great performance on T-Mobile, there are still going to be places where it’s not the best option.
As usual, Ookla’s market report breaks down the numbers by individual state. T-Mobile now has the lead in 46 states after flipping North Dakota from undecided in the last report, while South Dakota remains too close to call. This time, it’s joined by West Virginia and Alaska, which regional carriers FirstNet and GCI previously dominated, respectively.
Ookla At this point, AT&T retains its lead in Montana and Vermont, but that’s not saying much. The median download speed for all carriers in Montana is only 47.49Mbps, so it’s easily overshadowed by AT&T’s score of 68.41Mbps. Vermont fares even worse, with overall median download speeds of 38.47Mbps compared to AT&T’s 49.02Mbps.
By contrast, the slowest state was Mississippi, with an overall median download speed of 34.05Mbps. T-Mobile appears to offer a considerable advantagethere with speeds of 95.56Mbps.
At the other end of the spectrum, Minnesota, Illinois, and New Jersey topped the list for overall median download speeds, ranging from 100.83Mbps in Minnesota to 95.77Mbps in New Jersey. T-Mobile took the top spot in all three but offered its best speeds in Kansas (189.6Mbps), Ohio (188.08Mpbs), and Illinois (172.51Mbps) — two of which didn’t make the top 10 for overall median download speeds.
When it came to individual cities, St. Paul, Minnesota, had the fastest median mobile download speed at 139.66Mbps. Columbus, Ohio, and Plano, Texas, came in a close second and third, with speeds of 137.86Mbps and 134.98Mbps, respectively. Among the 100 most populous cities in the U.S., Lubbock, Texas, was the slowest, with median download speeds of 42.13Mbps. Not surprisingly, T-Mobile was the fastest mobile operator in 86 of these cities; Verizon came out ahead in Miami, while the other 13 were too close to call.
The fastest smartphones Andy Boxall/Digital Trends This time, the list of fastest smartphones took an interesting shift, with Samsung’s Galaxy Z Fold 4 coming out on top, offering median download speeds of 147.25Mbps. This was followed by Google’s Pixel 7 Pro at 137.11Mbps, followed by Apple’s iPhone 14 Pro Max and iPhone 14 Pro at 133.84Mbps and 130.14Mbps, respectively. Samsung’s Galaxy S22 Ultra rounded out the top five at 124.83Mbps.
Oolka It’s a stark contrast to the previous quarter when the iPhone 14 Pro Max took the top spot with a score of 147.42Mbps. However, it also shows how these numbers can get a bit skewed. Ookla’s report is primarily based on metrics recorded using its Speedtest apps, so the numbers are influenced by device popularity and customer expectations.
When Ookla’s last report was published, the iPhone 14 lineup was the newest kid on the block, and even though they all have the same 5G chipset, owners of the more expensive flagship iPhone 14 Pro models are more likely to be running speed tests than folks who opted for Apple’s standard models. The same would be true for the Samsung Galaxy S22 Ultra, Galaxy Z Fold 4, and Pixel 7 Pro. There’s no reason to believe these higher-end phones offer cellular performance that’s significantly faster than their more affordable counterparts; they’re just the ones that people are more likely to run speed tests on.
Editors' Recommendations This new MediaTek chip is about to bring 5G to a lot more devices T-Mobile still has the fastest 5G, but its rivals are catching up T-Mobile’s huge lead in 5G speeds isn’t going anywhere Your Verizon plan just got a major overhaul — here’s what’s new Don’t buy the Pixel Tablet; get this cheaper Android tablet instead 5G AT&T Cellular Carriers T-Mobile Tech News Verizon Mobile Netgear has unveiled its Nighthawk M6 Pro Mobile Hotspot Router, the most advanced mobile hotspot yet. The new portable router features the latest and fastest 5G and Wi-Fi technologies, delivering unprecedented range and performance for a wireless hotspot.
As the “Pro” moniker implies, the new mobile router is an enhanced version of the previously announced M6 hotspot, adding support for connecting to extremely high frequency (EHF) mmWave 5G service and supporting Wi-Fi 6E on the client side to ensure that laptops, smartphones, and tablets can take advantage of that peak performance, even in the busiest places.
A mobile router for urban life Mobile The budget smartphone market is a bustling space right now, with great phones from Nokia and Samsung making big waves. Motorola is the unofficial king of the budget smartphone, but its throne is looking quite shaky right now. That might be why it's decided to remix some classics this year, releasing new versions of the Moto G 5G and Moto G Stylus.
While there are definitely some improvements in the 2023 versions of both phones, Motorola has also made some cutbacks for both, making these new versions remixes of past classics rather than pure upgrades. Here's everything you need to know about the Motorola Moto G 5G (2023) and Moto G Stylus (2023).
Moto G 5G (2023) Mobile Verizon plans to expand its faster 5G Ultra Wideband network to reach beyond urban and suburban centers later this year, helping to drive up performance for folks in rural areas and spearhead the growth of its fixed wireless access (FWA) broadband services.
Verizon CEO Hans Vestburg touched on these details this week in the company’s quarterly earnings call, where he lauded the rapid expansion of the carrier’s C-band coverage to reach 200 million people in just over a year “since we lit up the first site.” Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
