Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? T-Mobile’s newest plans are exciting for new (and old) customers By Jesse Hollington Close T-Mobile has just unveiled a new set of plans and perks to help both new and current customers break free of lengthy device contracts while guaranteeing you’ll be able to get the best deals available on phone upgrades every two years.
Introducing T-Mobile’s newest plan — Go5G Plus Easy Unlock for AT&T customers who want to switch More savings across the board Significantly, with the new plans, the “Un-carrier” promises equal treatment for all customers, whether they’re coming over from another carrier or have been using T-Mobile’s services for years. That’s in contrast to the limited-time offers of its rivals, which often ignore their most loyal subscribers in an effort to entice others to switch carriers.
Jaap Arriens / Getty Images “Ten years ago, we started the Un-carrier movement by ridding the industry of two-year service contracts. A decade after that first Un-carrier move, the Carriers are still focused on trying to lock customers down,” T-Mobile CEO Mike Sievert said in the company’s press release.
“At T-Mobile, we just think differently. We’re focused on being the provider you choose, not the one you’re stuck with. That’s why we created Phone Freedom … because every wireless customer deserves more freedom and fairness they can count on.” The best prepaid cell phone plans in 2023: the 7 best ones Motorola just launched 3 new Android phones, and they look incredible T-Mobile’s huge lead in 5G speeds isn’t going anywhere Introducing T-Mobile’s newest plan — Go5G Plus T-Mobile is calling the new plan Go5G Plus , which it describes as a “supercharged version” of Magenta MAX , offering everything that plan has to offer, plus larger high-speed data allotments of 50GB for hotspot use and 15GB for roaming in Mexico and Canada — three times more than what’s included with Magenta MAX.
The key benefit to Go5G Plus is T-Mobile’s “New In Two” promise, which guarantees customers are eligible to upgrade to a new device at least every two years for the life of the plan with the same device pricing that’s offered to new customers. T-Mobile also promises these won’t be limited-time offers, so you don’t need to worry about being pressured into upgrading early for fear of missing out on the best deals.
T-Mobile is also sweetening the pot by offering customers switching to Go5G Plus a free 5G phone valued up to $830 with an eligible trade-in — and that includes at least some old phones up to six years old. What’s more, the whole family can take advantage of this offer, which means you could get up to four free phones — as long as you have enough eligible phones to trade in, of course.
Easy Unlock for AT&T customers who want to switch That’s not just limited to unlocked phones, either. In what the T-Mobile calls an effort to help AT&T customers “make their great escape,” T-Mobile will not only still offer a prepaid Mastercard to pay off up to $650 of your existing phone contract, but now it will take your eligible locked device as a trade-in in exchange for a free smartphone.
As T-Mobile marketing chief Mike Katz puts it, “AT&T’s unlock process rivals a trip to the DMV, so we’re helping their customers avoid the aggravation. For the first time ever, we’re not just taking locked phones off people’s hands — we’re also sending people home with a free smartphone on America’s most awarded 5G network.” While T-Mobile promises that it won’t ever make limited-time offers on normal upgrade pricing, that’s a trickier promise to make when it comes to trade-ins. So, it’s not surprising that the company says it’s only offering Easy Unlock for a limited time; it hasn’t said exactly how long that will be, but if you’re thinking of switching, it’s best to take advantage of it soon.
More savings across the board Image used with permission by copyright holder On top of guaranteed upgrades and great trade-in values, the premium Go5G Plus plan offers up to $270 in other perks for subscribers with two or more lines, including full subscriptions to Netflix and Apple TV+ , Scam Shield protection, free high-speed data in over 215 destinations, and quite a bit more, like a free 2023 MLS Season Pass subscription.
For those who don’t need everything offered by the top-of-the-line plan, T-Mobile is also launching a standard Go5G plan for those who just want more data than what’s offered by Magenta, along with additional Go5G and Go5G Plus plans for small businesses, customers 55 and over nationwide, and military families.
T-Mobile is also keeping its Magenta, Magenta MAX, and Essentials plans in the mix with the same device deals across the board — including a free 5G phone with a trade-in in any condition. It’s also dropping the price on its Essentials plan with a new promotional Essentials Savings plan that goes as low as $25 per line for a family of four and offers up to $240 in annual savings for families. Like T-Mobile’s other plans, this includes the Price Lock guarantee that T-Mobile won’t raise the regular rates for talk, text, or data.
Alex Tai/SOPA Images / LightRocket via Getty Images Lastly, T-Mobile is so sure that you’ll love its 5G network that it’s willing to put its money where its mouth is with a new “Go Back Guarantee.” This “fail-safe option” provides $50 per voice line to customers who change their minds within 30 days to help defray the cost of the first month’s bill.
T-Mobile’s new Phone Freedom plans will be available starting April 23, including the Go5G and Essentials Savings plans, Go Back Guarantee, Easy Unlock, and trade-in promos. Easy Unlock and Essentials Savings are only available for a limited time.
Editors' Recommendations Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free T-Mobile still has the fastest 5G, but its rivals are catching up This new Android phone impressed me as soon as I picked it up The 5G speed race is over and T-Mobile has won Your Verizon plan just got a major overhaul — here’s what’s new 5G Cellular Carriers T-Mobile Tech News Mobile The budget smartphone market is a bustling space right now, with great phones from Nokia and Samsung making big waves. Motorola is the unofficial king of the budget smartphone, but its throne is looking quite shaky right now. That might be why it's decided to remix some classics this year, releasing new versions of the Moto G 5G and Moto G Stylus.
While there are definitely some improvements in the 2023 versions of both phones, Motorola has also made some cutbacks for both, making these new versions remixes of past classics rather than pure upgrades. Here's everything you need to know about the Motorola Moto G 5G (2023) and Moto G Stylus (2023).
Moto G 5G (2023) Mobile Each time a new analysis of mobile network performance gets published, it’s almost a given that we’ll see T-Mobile leading the pack in terms of delivering the fastest 5G speeds. After all, the “Un-carrier” had a massive lead in deploying its 5G networks — and it hasn’t been resting on its laurels.
However, its competitors haven’t been sitting still either. While Verizon may have been starting from behind, it’s been aggressively deploying the faster 5G spectrum that gave it a nice leap in 5G performance last year. Still, Verizon and AT&T are lagging quite a bit in overall mobile network performance, and AT&T has fallen even farther behind when it comes to delivering the best 5G speeds across the nation.
Mobile If there’s any piece of technology that has made a significant impact on the lives of everyone, it’s the cellular phone — specifically, the smartphone. It’s literally a tiny computer that fits into your pocket, and brings a plethora of information, entertainment, and lets you capture visual memories or be productive wherever you go. Pretty much everyone has a smartphone these days, for better or for worse.
But have you ever thought about which smartphones have been the most important and influential ones that shaped the rest of the industry? Let’s take a look at what we consider to be the most important smartphones of all time.
iPhone (2007) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
