Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? T-Mobile still has the fastest 5G, but its rivals are catching up By Jesse Hollington Close Jaap Arriens / Getty Images For most of 2023, we’ve seen median 5G speeds among the big three carriers remain fairly stable, leading us to believe that things were beginning to reach a plateau. However, it now seems that this may only be true at the very top end of the 5G speed race.
T-Mobile still has a healthy lead Expansion is driving 5G speed improvements The numbers by state The fastest 5G smartphones Today, Ookla released its latest market research on 5G speeds for the third quarter of 2023, and it’s an interesting mix of surprising and not-so-surprising developments in the 5G market.
First up, there’s no surprise at which carrier is still winning the 5G speed game (spoiler alert: it’s T-Mobile). That’s remained unchanged for years and will likely remain so for the foreseeable future.
Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free T-Mobile’s huge lead in 5G speeds isn’t going anywhere Netgear’s new M6 Pro router lets you use fast 5G anywhere you go However, what’s interesting about this report is that T-Mobile’s rivals — AT&T and Verizon — seem to be making a surge, showing an upward burst in median 5G speeds that we haven’t seen since they first adopted C-band in early 2022.
 AT&T also broke through the 100Mbps barrier for the first time.
T-Mobile still has a healthy lead T-Mobile It’s no surprise that T-Mobile remains solidly on top, with its customers’ median 5G speeds in the last quarter clocking in at 221.57Mbps, making it the only carrier to have ever scored over 200Mbps in this category.
However, that score shows no meaningful change over the last three quarters. T-Mobile came in at 220Mbps in July (the second quarter of 2023) , 220.7Mbps in April the first quarter of 2023) , and 216.56Mbps in January (the fourth quarter of 2022) , the last of which was the first quarter where it blew past 200Mbps from its year-ago score (193.06Mbps).
Meanwhile, Verizon hasn’t been sitting still, and even AT&T is starting to show some signs of life in terms of growing its 5G network and improving 5G speeds. This time around, Verizon’s median 5G speeds across the U.S. came in at 153.79Mbps, an increase of 15% over its July score of 133.5Mbps and 28% over its year-ago median speed rating of 119.8Mbps.
Ookla AT&T has shown an even more significant jump that suggests that ta sleeping giant may be awakening. This quarter, it achieved median 5G speeds above 100Mbps for the first time, edging past that line with a score of 101.55Mbps. That’s 18% faster than its second quarter of 2023 speeds of 86.01Mbps and a 25% increase over last year’s 81.22Mbps.
Ookla The numbers are a bit less impressive when it comes to overall median download speeds, as legacy 4G/LTE services are still pulling those down. However, T-Mobile has an even healthier lead even there, with 163.59Mbps median download speeds overall — more than double that of Verizon and AT&T, which come in at 75.68Mbps and 72.64Mbps, respectively. This is likely a result of T-Mobile’s much more extensive 5G network that leaves fewer of its customers on 4G/LTE coverage.
Expansion is driving 5G speed improvements Dish Wireless It’s important to remember that market reports such as these measure median speeds. The scores they report represent the status of a carrier’s network across the country and likely have little to do with the speeds you’ll encounter in your own neighborhood.
This also means that the speed increases we see each quarter don’t necessarily mean the carriers are building faster 5G towers. While carriers are experimenting with faster 5G technologies , most of what’s out there is already delivering peak 5G speeds.
What’s mostly happening across the U.S. isn’t that 5G cellular towers are getting faster– we’re just seeing more of the faster ones being deployed across the country, especially from AT&T and Verizon. As the carriers expand their fastest midband 5G networks by putting up more towers, more of their customers enjoy the fastest possible 5G speeds, and these improvements are reflected in the higher median scores.
This is why T-Mobile’s numbers haven’t budged all year. At the end of 2022, T-Mobile’s fastest 5G Ultra Capacity (UC) network already covered more than 260 million people, while its low-band Extended Range 5G network reached 323 million — nearly 98% of the U.S. population. That doesn’t leave a lot of T-Mobile customers experiencing anything less than the fastest 5G speeds and even fewer finding themselves with only a 4G/LTE signal.
By July, those numbers had increased to 275 million for 5G UC and 326 million for its Extended Range network, and T-Mobile plans to cover 300 million with 5G UC by the end of the year.
Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends However, it’s clear that T-Mobile doesn’t have much room for expansion, so it’s focusing on building its networks upward rather than outward with new initiatives such as four-carrier aggregation.
 These will almost certainly deliver higher median speeds in the long run. Still, like Verizon’s early mmWave deployments, they’re only available in pockets of coverage that are too small to move the needle on overall 5G download speeds.
Meanwhile, Verizon and AT&T are still actively rolling out their respective 5G Ultra Wideband (UW) and 5G Plus networks. Verizon boasted 200 million people covered by its 5G UW service in March, while AT&T has taken a more conservative approach in its use of C-band spectrum by waiting to acquire a less controversial chunk of spectrum that would create fewer problems with the aviation industry.
This is borne out by the results in Ookla’s latest analysis, with speed increases by AT&T and Verizon showing that they’re slowly catching up with T-Mobile through expansion. Whether they’ll ever catch up is another matter since T-Mobile isn’t sitting still and could easily have its faster carrier aggregation technologies rolled out far and wide before its rivals reach peak 5G coverage.
While Ookla’s analysis also rated T-Mobile as the top provider in several other areas, including latency, consistency, and video performance, the numbers for those were much closer, to the point where there was no statistical winner at all when it came to 5G consistency. In practical terms, that means that one carrier should be as good as any other when you have a solid 5G connection — it’s just that you’re much more likely to get that 5G icon lighting up on T-Mobile.
The numbers by state Joe Maring / Digital Trends As we already noted, median 5G download speeds don’t tell the whole story. Even if T-Mobile delivers the best 5G performance across the country, it doesn’t matter if it can’t deliver that performance where you live, work, and otherwise hang out.
Thankfully, Ookla also provides numbers by state. While the firm didn’t provide us with a copy of the full spreadsheet of regional measurements this time, the overall report lists the top 10 cities and states and which carrier comes out on top in each.
Illinois saw a healthy boost to first place this quarter, as it clocked in at 110.08Mbps and beat out previous winner New Jersey, which moved to fourth place, showing a drop from 102.44Mbps in July to 100.3Mbps this past quarter. Previous runner-up, Rhode Island, dropped out of the top 10 entirely, while Minnesota and the District of Columbia moved into the second -and third-place spots, and Arizona entered the top 10 list, moving into the fifth-place position with a score of 98.71Mbps.
Ookla New York retained its sixth-place spot, with an increase to 97.96Mbps from 94.61Mbps in July, while Michigan, Delaware, and Ohio dropped off the list to be replaced by North Dakota, Florida, and Utah, in seventh, eighth, and ninth, respectively. Pennsylvania remained on the list but dropped to the 10th spot despite an increase of nearly 4Mbps over its July rating of 91.24Mbps.
Overall, the appearance of North Dakota, Florida, and Utah showed some nice expansion in those states, all of which rose above 90Mbps for the first time. Utah was previously ranked at 14, Florida at 19, and North Dakota at 21.
North Dakota is the most fascinating entry on this list, as it not only saw a meteoric rise from 21st place at 78.95Mbps to the seventh position at 97Mbps — a 22.8% increase in speed — but that its increase appears to have been driven by Verizon rather than T-Mobile. While North Dakota tended toward T-Mobile in January’s report (the fourth quarter of 2022), it’s traditionally been scored as a tie, with no clear winner among the big three carriers. However, North Dakota’s new place on the top 10 list demonstrates that Verizon has been fulfilling its promises to expand 5G into more rural areas.
However, despite Verizon’s massive new lead in North Dakota, T-Mobile remains the fastest mobile operator in 44 states and the District of Columbia. The remaining five states — Alaska, Maine, Montana, South Dakota, and Vermont — are considered too close to call this time, meaning AT&T has lost the lead it briefly gained in Montana. The slowest five states were Alaska (at 30.07Mbps), Wyoming, Maine, Vermont, and Mississippi.
T-Mobile came out on top in 77 of the 100 most populous U.S. cities. However, that doesn’t mean the other carriers gained much ground. Verizon was the fastest only in El Paso, Texas, while AT&T won out solely in Las Vegas. The other 21 cities were too close to call.
Ookla Glendale, Arizona, made a huge comeback at 181.74Mbps after plummeting from the top spot in July when its median speeds fell from 176.79Mbps in April down to 133Mbps — a decline that we can now safely say was an aberration. Runners-up were Plano, Texas; Indianapolis, Indiana; Scottsdale, Arizona; and Nashville, Tennessee, which bumped previous front-runner Kansas City, Missouri, and St. Paul, Minneapolis off the list entirely and dropped Columbus, Ohio, into seventh place.
As for the slowest cities? Although many smaller towns undoubtedly have even slower median download speeds, among the top 100, Reno, Nevada, came in at last place at only 46.26Mbps. It was followed by Anchorage, Alaska; Laredo, Texas; Richmond, Virginia; and Madison, Wisconsin.
The fastest 5G smartphones Joe Maring / Digital Trends In addition to looking at the nationwide and regional speeds for each carrier, Ookla also provides a rundown on the fastest 5G smartphones each quarter, and this time around, the iPhone 15 Pro Max and iPhone 15 Pro unsurprisingly took the top two spots, registering staggering median download speeds of 251.37Mbps and 227.41Mbps, respectively.
Ookla Apple’s flagship iPhones were followed by the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra , which came out on top in July at 146.79Mbps and increased to 159.15Mbps this time. The Galaxy Z Fold 4 and Google Pixel 7 Pro rounded out the fourth and fifth spots.
Nevertheless, Samsung’s phones still edged out Apple when it came to median multi-server latency, with a score of 56ms versus 60ms for the iPhone. However, this is broken down by manufacturer rather than device, so it’s unclear where the new iPhone 15 models stand on this.
Not surprisingly, Qualcomm’s Snapdragon X70 5G modem chipset also took top scores, while the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 , which includes the X70 5G modem, came in second. They were followed by the Snapdragon 8+ Gen 1, which packs in the X65 5G modem, Google’s Tensor G2 from the Pixel 7 lineup, and finally the Snapdragon X65 5G modem.
Ookla While the specific differences here aren’t entirely clear, it’s likely the entries for the X70 and X65 modems primarily represent the iPhone 15 (X70) and iPhone 14 (X65) models since these use Qualcomm’s standalone modem chips alongside Apple’s own A-series silicon. The Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 and Snapdragon 8+ Gen 1 incorporate Qualcomm’s modems into a full system-on-a-chip (SoC) used in a broad range of Android flagships, including Samsung’s Galaxy S series and Galaxy Z series phones.
While the scores for the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max are very impressive, it’s important to remember that Ookla’s methodology gathers data from customers using its popular Speedtest apps, which means they’re influenced by how many people are running those speed tests. Since it’s far more common for buyers of expensive new flagship smartphones to fire up speed tests when they first take their devices out of the box, we regularly see these kinds of spikes for Samsung in the spring and Apple in the fall reports, but they likely don’t tell the whole story.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra Andy Boxall / Digital Trends For example, even though Apple’s powerful new A17 Pro chip is only found in the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max, the entire iPhone 15 lineup uses the same Qualcomm X70 5G modem. That’s one significant advantage of not tying the modem to the SoC. Hence, there’s no reason to assume that the iPhone 15 Pro should score significantly higher than an iPhone 15 , and the same is true for the Galaxy S23 lineup, where the Galaxy S23 and Galaxy S23 Plus both use the same Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip.
As you can see from the chipset rankings, you shouldn’t need the “Ultra” or “Pro” versions of a Samsung or Apple smartphone to get the best download speeds. The placement of those flagships in the top five likely has more to do with the fact that those are the most expensive flagship devices, and customers who opt to go for a top-end, premium smartphone are much more likely to run speed tests to see how well their shiny new iPhone 15 Pro Max performs.
Editors' Recommendations This new MediaTek chip is about to bring 5G to a lot more devices How fast is 5G? What you need to know about 5G speeds The 5G speed race is over and T-Mobile has won Live in a rural area? Verizon 5G is about to get better for you T-Mobile’s newest plans are exciting for new (and old) customers 5G AT&T Cellular Carriers T-Mobile Tech News Verizon Mobile Each time a new analysis of mobile network performance gets published, it’s almost a given that we’ll see T-Mobile leading the pack in terms of delivering the fastest 5G speeds. After all, the “Un-carrier” had a massive lead in deploying its 5G networks — and it hasn’t been resting on its laurels.
However, its competitors haven’t been sitting still either. While Verizon may have been starting from behind, it’s been aggressively deploying the faster 5G spectrum that gave it a nice leap in 5G performance last year. Still, Verizon and AT&T are lagging quite a bit in overall mobile network performance, and AT&T has fallen even farther behind when it comes to delivering the best 5G speeds across the nation.
Mobile Motorola may be making a play for the flagship market with the Motorola Edge 40 Pro, but budget phones are what the American monolith is best known for. While it won't be making as many waves as the latest Samsung phone or Apple iPhone launch, the newest iteration of the Moto G is always something worth paying attention to, as Motorola is a true veteran of the space and knows what makes an excellent cheap device.
Best of all, this new Moto G comes at a time when budget phone enthusiasts have never had it so good. Previously premium features are filtering down into lower-priced devices, without altering that sweet low price or the features everyone loves. That's exactly what's happening with the new Motorola Moto G Power 5G, which includes a 50-megapixel main camera lens, a larger amount of storage, and a big screen with a 120Hz refresh rate. With the big 5,000mAh battery the G Power range is known for, this could be the $300 phone to grab if you love a budget bargain.
Super-smooth motion Mobile If you’ve been on the fence about picking up one of the latest Galaxy S23 phones, some new research from Ookla may help tip the scales in Samsung’s favor.
In a new speed test report, Ookla tcompared the 5G performance specs of the Galaxy S23 models to last year’s Galaxy S22 in several countries — with some surprising results across the board.
A worthwhile 5G upgrade Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
