Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News The 5G speed race is over and T-Mobile has won By Jesse Hollington Close T-Mobile Every few months, a new market analysis comes out comparing the top 5G performance and availability among U.S. carriers. Each time, we wonder if the latest report will finally topple T-Mobile , which has held a commanding lead over rivals AT&T and Verizon for years. Yet, with each new report, T-Mobile pulls farther ahead while AT&T and Verizon are left in the dust.
The 5G speed plateau T-Mobile’s rapid expansion continues Verizon provides the best 5G experience What it all means With that in mind, Opensignal’s latest 5G Experience Report doesn’t bring too many surprises, at least in broad strokes. T-Mobile continues to deliver 5G download speeds that are more than twice those of any other carrier and more than twice the 5G availability. This means you won’t just get faster performance on T-Mobile’s 5G network , but you’re more likely to be able to find a 5G connection.
That’s a stark contrast to the early days of 5G when Verizon’s extremely short-range mmWave network delivered staggering download speeds of up to 4Gbps for the lucky 1% of Verizon subscribers who could find a mmWave transceiver.
Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free How fast is 5G? What you need to know about 5G speeds Netgear’s new M6 Pro router lets you use fast 5G anywhere you go Still, although T-Mobile may come out on top for overall download speeds and availability, there’s a bit of nuance here. Opensignal’s analysis shows that Verizon and AT&T still hold their own against the Un-carrier behemoth in some regions and when it comes to certain aspects of the 5G experience.
The 5G speed plateau Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends T-Mobile had a big head start in rolling out faster mid-band 5G services thanks to its 2020 merger with Sprint , while Verizon and AT&T couldn’t roll out a similar midrange spectrum until their C-band deployments began in early 2022.
While many believed that C-band would close the gap with T-Mobile, that hasn’t happened. When Verizon began aggressively rolling out the new spectrum in January 2022 , its median 5G download speeds jumped by nearly 52% practically overnight , breaking the 100Mbps barrier for the first time.
However, that initial meteoric rise turned out to be a one-time phenomenon. Verizon’s median speeds have danced around that 100Mbps mark ever since. Meanwhile, T-Mobile hasn’t sat on its haunches but has continued to expand its coverage far and wide, not only preserving its lead but pulling even further ahead.
Nevertheless, we may be reaching peak 5G, as even T-Mobile’s numbers have stabilized around 200Mbps over the past few months. According to Opensignal’s latest report, T-Mobile’s average download speeds nationwide now sit at 195.5Mbps, which works out to twice as fast as Verizon’s 96.3Mbps and more than 2.4 times that of AT&T’s 80Mbps.
Opensignal Opensignal adds that users saw slight increases of about 10Mbps in average 5G download speeds compared to the last report, with Verizon coming out slightly ahead at 11.4Mbps versus a 9.1Mbps increase for T-Mobile.
If you’re comparing reports, it’s also worth mentioning that Opensignal’s methodology typically produces slightly lower overall numbers than Ookla’s speed tests , which measure median download speeds rather than average speeds. However, both reports show roughly the same performance gaps.
Interestingly, Verizon edged out T-Mobile slightly when it came to average 5G upload speeds, clocking in with an 18.5Mbps average versus T-Mobile’s 18.2Mbps. That’s a statistically insignificant difference, so we think it’s fair to call it a tie. However, what is significant is that Verizon pulled ahead in this area from the last report, gaining 2.4Mbps, breaking T-Mobile’s seven-win streak.
T-Mobile’s rapid expansion continues NurPhoto / Getty Images Fast 5G speeds won’t do you much good if you can’t find a 5G network, and this is another area where T-Mobile is leaps and bounds ahead of the pack, boasting 57.9% availability in Opensignal’s latest report.
Opensignal’s availability metric doesn’t directly measure geographic coverage; instead, it measures the percentage of time those with a 5G phone and 5G plan are actually connected to a 5G network in the places where they spend most of their time. It’s a much more practical way to look at 5G coverage than worrying about whether you’ll find a 5G tower in the Nevada desert or Wyoming’s Hole in the Wall.
Opensignal Despite Verizon’s claims that its fastest 5G Ultra Wideband network covers 200 million people , Opensignal discovered that Verizon customers could find a 5G network only 9.8% of the time. They spent the rest of their time on the company’s slower 4G/LTE network. That’s even more surprising considering that Opensignal measures 5G availability across all bands, including Verizon’s low-band 5G Nationwide network.
 While that may not be much faster than 4G/LTE, it meets Opensignal’s criteria for 5G availability.
Interestingly, AT&T scored higher on this metric, with its customers accessing 5G service 20.7% of the time. Since AT&T’s mid-band 5G Plus network hasn’t rolled out to more than a handful of cities, AT&T users are likelier to spend most of their time on the carrier’s slower low-band 5G network.
Still, these scores pale compared to T-Mobile, where customers spend more than half their time with a 5G signal. T-Mobile’s 57.9% score represents an increase of 8.2% over the last report, which itself saw a 9.2% boost from the analysis before that. That’s still a surprisingly low number when you consider T-Mobile’s claims that its 5G Ultra Capacity network already covers 260 million people or over 75% of the U.S. population, and it’s working on expanding that to 300 million by the end of 2023.
Opensignal When Opensignal broke those numbers down by state, T-Mobile was also the clear winner in availability across the board. The Un-carrier scored highest in the District of Columbia at 68.8% and had the most significant lead in Idaho, where its 62.2% score dwarfed AT&T and Verizon’s 5G availability, which came in at 5.7% and 7.0%, respectively. Similar spreads were seen in Kansas, Maryland, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, and Wyoming.
Verizon provides the best 5G experience Opensignal While T-Mobile continues to dominate in raw speeds and availability — arguably the two most important metrics — Verizon remains on top in Opensignal’s 5G experience categories, which cover video, live video, games, and voice apps.
Most of the scores are pretty close, and all three carriers rate in Opensignal’s “Good” tier for Video Experience and Live Video Experience, which means users are “able to stream video at 720p or better with satisfactory loading times and little stalling while connected to 5G.” Opensignal For Voice App Experience, Verizon and T-Mobile both scored “good” at 81.7 and 80.0, respectively, which means “many users are satisfied, but some experience minor quality impairments.” AT&T came in with a lower 78.3, putting it in the “acceptable” tier.
Opensignal In the 5G Games Experience category, Verizon came out well ahead with a score of 81.1, while T-Mobile was slightly behind at 77.1, and AT&T lagged further behind at 68.8. This puts T-Mobile and Verizon both in the “good” tier, meaning “most users deem the experience acceptable and do not see a delay between their actions and the game,” It likely speaks to lower latency on Verizon’s 5G network. AT&T was in the “fair” tier.
What it all means Alex Tai/SOPA Images / LightRocket via Getty Images These numbers show that T-Mobile is aggressively rolling out its 5G services nationwide, making it a safe bet that the Un-carrier will provide the best 5G performance and experience for most users Verizon’s “5G Experience” awards notwithstanding.
It’s important to remember that these are average speeds, which means they represent the common experience of most customers across the nation but won’t necessarily apply to every individual situation. They also don’t represent the maximum speeds you’ll likely see when you have good 5G coverage from any of the big three carriers.
Further, if you live, work, and play in an area with good Verizon 5G mmWave coverage, there’s little doubt that this will provide you with a better overall 5G experience. That’s a quintessential outlier scenario, though, as studies have shown that Verizon customers spend less than 1% of their time on the carrier’s mmWave network, where each transceiver has about the range of a city block.
Still, even though 5G speeds are starting to plateau, coverage is not. All three carriers still have a lot of room for expansion before the nation is fully blanketed with 5G. If anything, that will push the average and median download speeds higher, especially for AT&T and Verizon, where most customers are likely still on the slower low-band networks that don’t deliver on the full promise of 5G.
Editors' Recommendations This new MediaTek chip is about to bring 5G to a lot more devices T-Mobile still has the fastest 5G, but its rivals are catching up T-Mobile’s huge lead in 5G speeds isn’t going anywhere Live in a rural area? Verizon 5G is about to get better for you T-Mobile’s newest plans are exciting for new (and old) customers 5G AT&T T-Mobile Tech News Verizon Mobile Each time a new analysis of mobile network performance gets published, it’s almost a given that we’ll see T-Mobile leading the pack in terms of delivering the fastest 5G speeds. After all, the “Un-carrier” had a massive lead in deploying its 5G networks — and it hasn’t been resting on its laurels.
However, its competitors haven’t been sitting still either. While Verizon may have been starting from behind, it’s been aggressively deploying the faster 5G spectrum that gave it a nice leap in 5G performance last year. Still, Verizon and AT&T are lagging quite a bit in overall mobile network performance, and AT&T has fallen even farther behind when it comes to delivering the best 5G speeds across the nation.
Mobile Motorola may be making a play for the flagship market with the Motorola Edge 40 Pro, but budget phones are what the American monolith is best known for. While it won't be making as many waves as the latest Samsung phone or Apple iPhone launch, the newest iteration of the Moto G is always something worth paying attention to, as Motorola is a true veteran of the space and knows what makes an excellent cheap device.
Best of all, this new Moto G comes at a time when budget phone enthusiasts have never had it so good. Previously premium features are filtering down into lower-priced devices, without altering that sweet low price or the features everyone loves. That's exactly what's happening with the new Motorola Moto G Power 5G, which includes a 50-megapixel main camera lens, a larger amount of storage, and a big screen with a 120Hz refresh rate. With the big 5,000mAh battery the G Power range is known for, this could be the $300 phone to grab if you love a budget bargain.
Super-smooth motion Mobile If you’ve been on the fence about picking up one of the latest Galaxy S23 phones, some new research from Ookla may help tip the scales in Samsung’s favor.
In a new speed test report, Ookla tcompared the 5G performance specs of the Galaxy S23 models to last year’s Galaxy S22 in several countries — with some surprising results across the board.
A worthwhile 5G upgrade Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
