Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Your Verizon plan just got a major overhaul — here’s what’s new By Jesse Hollington Close Verizon’s mobile plans are being restructured to provide customers with the flexibility to choose only the perks they actually plan to use — and save money in the process.
Although Verizon’s plans have always packed in a lot of extras, the company candidly admits that these have become “bloated bundles” that force folks to pay for a bunch of services they may not want or need. This week, Verizon announced it’s leaving that “one-size-fits-all” approach behind to allow customers to build the bundle of services and perks they want.
Verizon’s myPlan Verizon There’s little doubt Verizon’s plans were starting to get complicated. For example, the carrier launched a new “Verizon One” plan in September that offered a bundle of Apple’s services instead of the typical Disney+/ESPN+/ Hulu mix, yet it also had a lower mobile hotspot data cap and omitted some other features available on its standard 5G Get More plan.
Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free This new Android phone impressed me as soon as I picked it up If you like cheap phones, you’ll love these 2 new Moto G options Verizon One was the first step down a road that could have made things even more chaotic and confusing. Thankfully, the company realized this and decided it was time to untangle things.
Verizon is calling its new initiative myPlan, and it has the nice bonus of also simplifying its wireless packages. The company says myPlan is “for anyone who doesn’t want to be told what they need or forced into a plan that’s already decided for them.” It’s available to both new and current customers and can be changed directly in the MyVerizon app without the need to call in or visit a store or pay any service fees.
Instead of the awkward collection of 5G Get More, Play More, and Do More plans, the new myPlan offers two very straightforward base options: Unlimited Welcome and Unlimited Plus. The lower-tier plan offers basic 5G service via Verizon’s low-band 5G Nationwide network , while the Plus version unlocks the faster 5G Ultra Wideband service and adds 30GB of premium mobile hotspot data.
On top of the base plan, customers can then choose one or more add-ons “à la carte.” All of these are currently priced at $10 per month and include discounted media bundles, TravelPass, cloud storage, or even a Walmart+ membership.
Verizon For example, the Disney Bundle offers the same trifecta of Disney+, ESPN+, and Hulu for $10 per month, which is a savings of $5 per month over purchasing them apart from Verizon. The Apple One Individual bundle from the Verizon One plan is also available, priced at $10 per month rather than the normal price of $17.
With myPlan, Verizon is also introducing some new perks, such as the Apple Music Family plan, which can be added on for $10 per month instead of the $17 that Apple charges directly. Other options include a Walmart+ membership that includes the Paramount+ streaming service and Verizon’s own 100GB Mobile Hotspot, 2TB Cloud Storage, or 3 TravelPass Day bundles.
Family members can each customize their own selection of add-ons and perks through the MyVerizon app. The catch is that, except for those that explicitly provide family sharing, add-ons apply only to the line or person for which they’re added. However, Verizon notes that these can be changed by any family member at any time, so you’re never locked into your selections for more than a single monthly billing cycle.
The base Unlimited Welcome plan starts at $65 for a single line and drops to $27 per line for families with five lines or more. Bumping up to Unlimited Plus adds $15 across the board, with prices ranging from $85 for a single line down to $42 per line for 5-plus lines. To keep things simple, the add-ons are each priced at an additional $10 per month. The new myPlan plans will be available starting May 18.
Editors' Recommendations The Google Pixel 8 just got its first update. Here’s what’s new Motorola just launched 3 new Android phones, and they look incredible Steve Jobs was wrong. Having a stylus for your phone is great Live in a rural area? Verizon 5G is about to get better for you T-Mobile’s newest plans are exciting for new (and old) customers 5G Tech News Verizon Mobile If you’ve been on the fence about picking up one of the latest Galaxy S23 phones, some new research from Ookla may help tip the scales in Samsung’s favor.
In a new speed test report, Ookla tcompared the 5G performance specs of the Galaxy S23 models to last year’s Galaxy S22 in several countries — with some surprising results across the board.
A worthwhile 5G upgrade Mobile You've probably noticed that there's been much more hype around 5G than for any of the wireless technologies that came before. Some of that is just marketing, of course; we are living in an increasingly connected era, and there are far more people toting smartphones now than there were in 2012 when 4G/LTE was just beginning to go mainstream. However, it's also not an exaggeration to say that with considerably faster speeds and the ability to handle many more devices, 5G is a much bigger step into the next stage of global connectivity. You've also probably noticed it yourself with a "5G UW" icon at the top of your phone.
As with most new technologies, 5G comes with some new challenges for both carriers and consumers. One of the most significant of these has been working out the best way to deploy 5G services across the much wider range of frequencies that it's capable of operating on. This wasn't nearly as significant a problem in the days of 3G and 4G/LTE services, which all operated in a much narrower range of radio spectrum.
Mobile If you own a 5G-capable smartphone — which are all of the best phones today — there’s a good chance you’ve seen different 5G network icons showing up in your status bar. It’s a stark contrast to the pre-5G days when your phone showed “4G” or “LTE” no matter where you went.
It can get a bit confusing to see a 5G indicator one moment and then “5G UC” or “5G UW” the next. It’s not something you need to worry too much about, as you don’t usually have much control over it, but it’s still helpful to understand what these different symbols mean — and why they matter.
The humble beginnings of 5G Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
