Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile News Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free By Jesse Hollington Close Andy Boxall / Digital Trends One of the great things about eSIM technology is how easy it is to get a new line up and running on a compatible smartphone. Gone are the days when you needed to find a carrier store or wait for a new physical SIM card to arrive in the mail. Now, you can go through the entire process from the comfort of your own home and be up and running with a new phone plan in under five minutes.
Free 5G service — no strings attached How to sign up for yourself This is especially great when dealing with prepaid carriers, and one such company that’s been leaning heavily into eSIM technology is Visible. It’s embraced eSIM not just to make it easy for folks to sign up, but also to let prospective customers take the service for a spin before committing to it.
Since most phones that support eSIM also let you use them to set up multiple lines , it’s easy to try out another carrier’s plans without canceling your primary one — at least until you’re sure you want to make the switch. That’s the approach Visible took when it launched a free trial for iPhone users in early 2022, and now it’s bringing that same magic to some of the most popular Android smartphones.
Visible’s simple and affordable plans rank well among our best prepaid cell phone plans.
 Visible runs on Verizon’s 5G network , which offers solid coverage and performance throughout most of the U.S., but your mileage can still vary depending on where you live.
Free 5G service — no strings attached Visible Starting today, November 1, Visible is offering a 15-day try-before-you-buy offer for anybody with an eSIM-compatible Samsung Galaxy or Google Pixel device. There’s no commitment or credit card info required and no need to port in your existing number. If you like Visible, you can purchase a plan to continue your service. If not, just delete the eSIM from your phone and walk away.
Those signing up for the trial will receive a temporary phone number so they can continue using their existing plan alongside the Visible plan. This means you won’t need to change anything else with your current carrier, and it also lets you compare your current plan head-to-head with what Visible offers.
This includes placing and receiving phone calls on both networks and using unlimited 5G data services (including a mobile hotspot ) to see which one you prefer and, more importantly, which is more reliable in your area.
You’ll need an eligible phone to participate, but this includes a good number of recent Samsung Galaxy and Google Pixel phones that provide eSIM support. For Google, that’s everything since the Google Pixel 3, including Google’s a-series Pixels from the Pixel 3a to the Pixel 7a.
 It also works with the latest Google Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro.
Samsung fans will need a Galaxy Note 20, Galaxy S20 through Galaxy S23 , or any Galaxy Z Flip or Z Fold series phone from the originals through the Galaxy Z Flip 5 and Z Fold 5.
 The new Galaxy A54 5G is also eligible. Apple iPhones are also still included, starting with the iPhone XS/XR, the first model to offer eSIM capabilities.
How to sign up for yourself Joe Maring / Digital Trends Those interested can sign up by visiting Visible’s free trial page , where you can ensure your smartphone is compatible and get your free eSIM. You’ll need to answer a few quick questions, including entering your International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) number to confirm your smartphone model and eligibility, but you won’t need to provide any credit card information or port your existing phone number to Visible.
If you decide to stay with Visible after the 15-day trial, you can port your existing number in later or stick with the number that Visible assigned to you for the trial.
During the trial period, you’ll have access to both your current plan and the new Visible plan so you can see how they compare. It’s a great way to make sure Visible will work for you since one of the biggest challenges when dealing with 5G technology is how well each carrier’s network performs in different areas. This lets you see how well Visible works in your neck of the woods before you take the plunge.
Visible offers two very affordable plans — $25 a month for unlimited basic 5G service and $45 a month for virtually unlimited premium 5G. Those who find that Visible doesn’t work for them can go back to using their original plan with no interruption in service.
Editors' Recommendations When is my phone getting Android 14? Here’s everything we know How fast is 5G? What you need to know about 5G speeds 12 things you have to do with your Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 The 5G speed race is over and T-Mobile has won Steve Jobs was wrong. Having a stylus for your phone is great 5G Android Google Pixel Samsung Tech News Mobile Foldable phones are getting exponentially better with each new iteration, and a new smartphone might already be outdoing the Galaxy Z Flip 5 before it even hits store shelves. According to a new leaked render, the Oppo Find N3 Flip will be outfitted with a triple-camera setup — a major step up from the dual-camera arrays that flip smartphones have been rocking for the past several years.
As shared by 91Mobiles, the Oppo Find N3 Flip will feature three cameras on its cover: a 50MP main lens, an 8MP ultrawide lens, and a 32MP telephoto lens. If the information is true, which it seems like it might be, then the Find N3 Flip will be breaking new ground for photographers who are looking to enjoy the benefits of foldable devices.
Mobile The market for Android tablets appears to be sinking, but the likes of the Pixel Tablet may have some role in salvaging it. The Pixel Tablet, launched last week -- exactly a year after it was first unveiled -- marks Google's reentry into the tablet segment after almost a decade.
While this development may help bring more manufacturers onto the scene, Google itself feels shy about making big claims about performance and productivity. Instead, the Pixel Tablet is projected as a mere hybrid upgrade to the Nest Hub and Nest Hub Max.
Mobile Netgear has unveiled its Nighthawk M6 Pro Mobile Hotspot Router, the most advanced mobile hotspot yet. The new portable router features the latest and fastest 5G and Wi-Fi technologies, delivering unprecedented range and performance for a wireless hotspot.
As the “Pro” moniker implies, the new mobile router is an enhanced version of the previously announced M6 hotspot, adding support for connecting to extremely high frequency (EHF) mmWave 5G service and supporting Wi-Fi 6E on the client side to ensure that laptops, smartphones, and tablets can take advantage of that peak performance, even in the busiest places.
A mobile router for urban life Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
