Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides What is 5G UW? The real meaning behind the icon on your phone By Jesse Hollington Close You’ve probably noticed that there’s been much more hype around 5G than for any of the wireless technologies that came before. Some of that is just marketing, of course; we are living in an increasingly connected era, and there are far more people toting smartphones now than there were in 2012 when 4G/LTE was just beginning to go mainstream. However, it’s also not an exaggeration to say that with considerably faster speeds and the ability to handle many more devices, 5G is a much bigger step into the next stage of global connectivity. You’ve also probably noticed it yourself with a “5G UW” icon at the top of your phone.
How 5G Ultra Wideband started Ultra-wideband vs. 5G Ultra Wideband So, what is 5G Ultra Wideband? The magic of C-band 5G UW vs. 5G UC vs. 5G Plus As with most new technologies, 5G comes with some new challenges for both carriers and consumers. One of the most significant of these has been working out the best way to deploy 5G services across the much wider range of frequencies that it’s capable of operating on. This wasn’t nearly as significant a problem in the days of 3G and 4G/LTE services, which all operated in a much narrower range of radio spectrum.
Verizon The quality and performance of your 5G service are tied closely to the frequencies that your carrier is using. Higher frequencies offer the best 5G speeds but don’t travel as far, so carriers have to mix things up a bit to deliver the best 5G coverage to the most people with the fewest towers. Each carrier also often needs to acquire licenses before it can expand 5G services into some of those new frequencies. It’s all a balancing act that can be as much art as science.
Over the past few years, as 5G has gradually moved into the mainstream , carriers have vied to acquire the most valuable pieces of this electromagnetic real estate to get an edge over their rivals. As they claim this new turf and expand into those frequency ranges where they’re able to offer faster 5G services, they also want to make sure their customers know that their 5G is the best 5G. Here’s a breakdown of how all of that works — specifically, 5G Ultra Wideband and what the 5G UW icon on your phone really means.
Have an Android phone? You can get unlimited 5G service for free How fast is 5G? What you need to know about 5G speeds The 5G speed race is over and T-Mobile has won How 5G Ultra Wideband started Apple This game of one-upmanship has naturally led carriers to use fancier marketing names to convince customers that their 5G is the best 5G. AT&T tried to get a head start in its 5G branding by introducing its misleading “5G Evolution” network — a rebranding of the same advanced LTE technology that other carriers were offering. However, no matter what your smartphone tells you, a “5G E” icon doesn’t mean you’re on a 5G network.
Thankfully, 5G E was the exception. However, it opened the door to carriers realizing they could offer unique branding for their 5G services and dress up the 5G phone icon to let customers know when they had better 5G service than the norm.
Verizon was the first carrier to do this in a big way. Its initial 5G network used the extremely high frequency (EHF) — and extremely short-range — millimeter wave (mmWave) spectrum.
 Verizon deployed this in a few major urban centers, but the lack of range meant that 99 percent of its customers never saw a 5G icon at all.
That changed in 2020 when Apple invited Verizon CEO Hans Vestberg to share the stage at its iPhone 12 launch event.
 As Apple was launching its first 5G-capable iPhone, Verizon took the opportunity to announce its new 5G Nationwide network, bringing 5G service to many more of its customers.
However, the 5G Nationwide network was built on the low-band sub-6GHz spectrum.
 This meant it was an order of magnitude slower than Verizon’s ultrafast mmWave network. So, to help distinguish these two very different classes of 5G service, Verizon coined a new name for its much faster mmWave service: 5G Ultra Wideband.
Ultra-wideband vs. 5G Ultra Wideband SOPA Images / Getty Image To be clear, 5G Ultra Wideband is strictly a marketing name used by Verizon. It has no relation to ultra-wideband (UWB) radio technology , which is used by devices like Apple’s AirTag and Samsung’s Galaxy SmartTag.
This is an important distinction since several smartphones include ultra-wideband radios. These have nothing to do with 5G, nor do they mean the phone is capable of 5G. For instance, Apple introduced UWB with the iPhone 11 in 2019 , but 5G didn’t come to the lineup until the iPhone 12 arrived a year later. AirTags and SmartTags don’t communicate over a 5G network either.
By definition, ultra-wideband is a radio technology that uses a broad spectrum of frequencies (wideband) but operates at a very low power level over a minimal range — much shorter than even the worst mmWave transceivers. This makes it ideal for the kind of precision tracking offered by AirTags and highly accurate indoor mapping. It’s also an excellent replacement for Near Field Communications (NFC) technology in applications like digital car keys.
That’s not what 5G Ultra Wideband is at all; Verizon picked that name presumably because it sounded like a cool way to promote its fastest 5G services.
So, what is 5G Ultra Wideband? Adam Doud/Digital Trends Confusing terminology aside, Verizon’s 5G Ultra Wideband is the carrier’s name for its fastest and highest capacity 5G service. If you’re a Verizon customer, you’ll know when you’re on this network by a distinct 5G icon that shows extra characters like “UW” or “UWB.” Initially, this applied only to Verizon’s tiny mmWave network. In those days, getting the “5G UW” indicator to show up was like panning for gold.
 Even in cities where Verizon offered 5G Ultra Wideband coverage, the very short range of mmWave frequencies meant it was typically confined to the city core. Even if you managed to find 5G UW coverage, it wasn’t hard to stray out of it since a single mmWave transceiver doesn’t cover much more than an average city block or two.
Meanwhile, Verizon customers who couldn’t get the coveted 5G UW icon to light up were left on the carrier’s 5G Nationwide network, which used the same low-band spectrum as its 4G/LTE service — and provided about the same performance.
The magic of C-band Dish Wireless Fortunately for Verizon and its customers, this changed for the better when the carrier could finally roll out its new midrange spectrum.
 After paying $45 billion in a Federal Communications Commission (FCC) auction to pick up a chunk of C-band frequencies (and months of wrangling with the aviation industry ), Verizon finally turned the key on the new spectrum in January.
The carrier made this new spectrum a part of its 5G Ultra Wideband network. Many more customers began seeing the “5G UW” icon appear on their phones, and this wasn’t just window dressing; they also began to experience actual 5G speeds.
Specifically, Verizon said its C-band rollout allowed its 5G Ultra Wideband network to expand to cover more than 100 million people throughout more than 1,700 cities. It’s the most comprehensive and ambitious rollout of the midrange spectrum to date. Rival AT&T, which dropped $23 billion in the same auction, has been taking a more conservative approach, covering fewer than a dozen cities.
This midrange spectrum has become the sweet spot for 5G since it offers the best balance of range and performance.
Low-band frequencies travel much farther — which is why Verizon still uses this spectrum for its 5G Nationwide network — but they can’t carry as much data. They also have to share the airwaves with older 4G/LTE services, slowing things down even more.
On the other end of the spectrum, mmWave delivers phenomenal download speeds and enough capacity to handle hundreds of devices, but the range is abysmal. This makes mmWave great for very dense areas like stadiums and airports, but as Verizon learned the hard way, it’s not so great when used as the foundation of a 5G network.
5G UW vs. 5G UC vs. 5G Plus Joe Maring / Digital Trends Thanks to its recent C-band rollouts, Verizon is in good shape to continue building and promoting its 5G Ultra Wideband network, but it still has its work cut out for it.
T-Mobile had a big head start in its 5G deployment since it didn’t have to wait for the C-band auction. The Un-carrier inherited a nice piece of 2.5GHz turf in its 2020 merger with Sprint.
 It quickly began decommissioning the older 4G/LTE Sprint towers to make this spectrum available for its 5G rollouts.
T-Mobile dubs this its 5G Ultra Capacity network.
 Like Verizon, T-Mobile customers get a special icon — “5G UC” in this case — to let them know when they’re using it. However, even though the 5G UC indicator didn’t appear until late 2021, T-Mobile’s 5G Ultra Capacity network had already expanded to cover more than 200 million Americans by that point — four months before Verizon could even flip on its first C-band tower.
On the other side, AT&T has been slower to take advantage of the new C-band spectrum , but it seems clear it’s playing the long game. AT&T does have some mmWave coverage in densely populated areas like stadiums and parks, which it calls its 5G Plus (5G+) network, and this year that network gained the eight cities where the carrier rolled out its C-band service. However, most AT&T customers won’t yet see a 5G+ icon on their phones.
Photo by Shoval Zonnis/ Pexels Verizon put all of its chips on the table to acquire the most controversial spectrum on the block , and it’s faced some challenges due to that decision. For instance, at least 50 U.S. airports have been designated as exclusion zones where Verizon’s 5G Ultra Wideband network won’t be available due to potential interference with aircraft instruments.
AT&T took a more cautious approach, hedging its bets so it could pick up some less controversial midrange spectrum in a subsequent auction. It plans to begin rolling out that spectrum later this year, and like T-Mobile, it will be able to operate it in places where Verizon and its 5G Ultra Wideband branding aren’t allowed to tread.
Editors' Recommendations This new MediaTek chip is about to bring 5G to a lot more devices T-Mobile still has the fastest 5G, but its rivals are catching up T-Mobile’s huge lead in 5G speeds isn’t going anywhere Your Verizon plan just got a major overhaul — here’s what’s new Netgear’s new M6 Pro router lets you use fast 5G anywhere you go 5G Cellular Carriers Verizon Mobile Verizon plans to expand its faster 5G Ultra Wideband network to reach beyond urban and suburban centers later this year, helping to drive up performance for folks in rural areas and spearhead the growth of its fixed wireless access (FWA) broadband services.
Verizon CEO Hans Vestburg touched on these details this week in the company’s quarterly earnings call, where he lauded the rapid expansion of the carrier’s C-band coverage to reach 200 million people in just over a year “since we lit up the first site.” Mobile Each time a new analysis of mobile network performance gets published, it’s almost a given that we’ll see T-Mobile leading the pack in terms of delivering the fastest 5G speeds. After all, the “Un-carrier” had a massive lead in deploying its 5G networks — and it hasn’t been resting on its laurels.
However, its competitors haven’t been sitting still either. While Verizon may have been starting from behind, it’s been aggressively deploying the faster 5G spectrum that gave it a nice leap in 5G performance last year. Still, Verizon and AT&T are lagging quite a bit in overall mobile network performance, and AT&T has fallen even farther behind when it comes to delivering the best 5G speeds across the nation.
Mobile Motorola may be making a play for the flagship market with the Motorola Edge 40 Pro, but budget phones are what the American monolith is best known for. While it won't be making as many waves as the latest Samsung phone or Apple iPhone launch, the newest iteration of the Moto G is always something worth paying attention to, as Motorola is a true veteran of the space and knows what makes an excellent cheap device.
Best of all, this new Moto G comes at a time when budget phone enthusiasts have never had it so good. Previously premium features are filtering down into lower-priced devices, without altering that sweet low price or the features everyone loves. That's exactly what's happening with the new Motorola Moto G Power 5G, which includes a 50-megapixel main camera lens, a larger amount of storage, and a big screen with a 120Hz refresh rate. With the big 5,000mAh battery the G Power range is known for, this could be the $300 phone to grab if you love a budget bargain.
Super-smooth motion Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
