Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Acer Chromebook Vero 514 Review Chromebook vs Laptop Screenshot on a Chromebook Reset a Chromebook Best Chromebooks Chromebook Problems Split Screen on a Chromebook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Acer Chromebook Vero 514 review: It’s no toy, but it feels like one By Mark Coppock Close $600.00 Very fast performance Decent battery life Good touchpad Class-leading sustainability Lid is too bendable Display is subpar Chassis is thick and unattractive Acer’s laptop lineup, the Vero , has the express purpose of being as sustainable and using as much recycled material, as possible. The line isn’t limited to Windows, with the Chromebook Vero 514 adding ChromeOS as an option. The laptop features 30% post-consumer recycled (PCR) plastic in the chassis and 50% in the keycaps. The chassis is paint-free, and the display panel is 99% recyclable. Even the touchpad, dubbed OceanGlass, comprises 100% ocean-bound plastics.
Specs and configurations Recycled, and it feels like it Being eco-friendly doesn’t mean it’s slow An old-school and underwhelming display Great for the environment, but not a great laptop If you’re looking for a Chromebook with an eye on the environment, then the Chromebook Vero 514 stands out. But how does it stand up as a laptop? Well, that’s a mixed bag, and it’s not so inexpensive that you can please both your wallet and your conscience.
Steam enters beta on Chromebooks, tripling number of supported devices Chromebooks could soon borrow Window 11’s best multitasking feature Your Chromebook now has access to your Android phone’s photos Specs and configurations Acer Chromebook Vero 514 Dimensions 12.81 inches x 8.83 inches x 0.80 inches Weight 3.09 pounds Processor Intel Core i3-1215U Intel Core i5-1235U Graphics Intel Iris Xe RAM 8GB Display 14.0-inch 16:9 Full HD (1920 x 1080) IPS Storage 128GB SSD 256GB SSD Touch No Ports 2 x USB-C 3.2 Gen 2 1 x USB-A 3.2 Gen 1 1 x HDMI (HDCP) 1 x 3.5mm audio jack Wireless Wi-Fi 6E and Bluetooth 5.2 Webcam 1080p Operating system ChromeOS Battery 56 watt-hours Price $500+ Acer offers two configurations of the Chromebook Vero 514. First, there’s our $571 (on sale from $600) Best Buy review configuration with an Intel 12th-gen Core i5-1235U CPU, 8GB of RAM, a 256GB SSD, and a 14.0-inch Full HD IPS display. For $500, also from , you can opt for a Core i3-1215U, 8GB of RAM, a 128GB SSD, and the same display. The review machine is far more attractive, with a much faster CPU and twice the storage for $100 more.
Recycled, and it feels like it Mark Coppock/Digital Trends The Chromebook Vero 514 looks and feels completely different from any laptop I’ve reviewed. Its chassis has a thick, rough surface that feels more to me like the plastic you’d find on a cheap toy. That sounds harsh, but I’m just giving my personal impressions. Our Acer Aspire Vero review was kinder. None of what I say here means it’s structurally compromised. The chassis is rigid without bending or flexing, but the lid has a lot of give. You don’t have to exert much force to bend it, which lends an air of cheapness. At least there’s no display distortion. The hinge is stiff, requiring two hands to pry open the lid.
Since the recycled plastic is unpainted, you can see colored flecks of different kinds of plastic used in its construction. I’m sure that’s on purpose, and it lends an interesting aesthetic to the otherwise boring grey color scheme. The lines are simple, and it’s a minimalist design, with only the nature of the recycled plastic making it stand out. It’s not the most attractive laptop, and a buyer will have to be dedicated to the environment to overlook its less desirable aspects.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends The top and bottom display bezels are huge by modern standards, while the side bezels aren’t particularly small. That makes this machine wider and deeper than it needs to be, given its 14.0-inch old-school 16:9 display. It’s also quite thick at 0.80 inches while being reasonably light at 3.09 pounds. Compare that to the similarly priced Acer Chromebook Spin 513 that’s 0.64 inches thick and weighs 2.83 pounds. The Chromebook Spin 513 is a convertible 2-in-1 that you’d expect to be a little thicker, which points out how thick the Chromebook Vero 514 really is.
The Chromebook Vero 514’s standard island keyboard with medium-sized black keycaps has good spacing, but the switches are a little loose. There’s just enough of a click in the bottoming action to make the keyboard OK for longer typing sessions, but I’ve used similarly priced Chromebooks with better keyboards. The keyboard is backlit with the usual ChromeOS range of levels, and the “e” and “r” keys are lime green. The touchpad is decently sized and precise, with quiet and confident clicks. The display isn’t touch-enabled.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends With USB-C and legacy ports, connectivity is fine, but there’s no Thunderbolt 4. That’s not a ding against the laptop, though, given that only a few recent Chromebooks have added Thunderbolt 4, and they’re considerably more expensive. The $1,100 HP Elite Dragonfly Chromebook is one example. Wireless connectivity is up-to-date with Wi-Fi 6E and Bluetooth 5.2.
Finally, the webcam is 1080p, which is welcome on a budget Chromebook. There’s a physical cover you can use for some added privacy. There’s no biometric login, though, which some lower-priced Chromebooks have started to add.
Being eco-friendly doesn’t mean it’s slow Mark Coppock/Digital Trends ChromeOS is a lightweight operating system that doesn’t require superfast CPUs for excellent performance. However, that’s not to say it can’t benefit from a good CPU, and the Chromebook Vero 514 utilizes a 15-watt Intel 12th-gen Core i5-1235U with 10 cores (two Performance and eight Efficient) and 12 threads. It’s a CPU that provides good performance in Windows 11 laptops.
 In a Chromebook, it’s incredibly fast.
Toss in the Chromebook Vero 514’s 8GB of RAM (again, plenty for ChromeOS) and speedy PCIe SSD, and you have a recipe for a fast laptop. According to the Android version of Geekbench 5, the Chromebook Ver0 514 is among the fastest Chromebooks we’ve tested. I also ran the Speedometer 2.0 web benchmark, which is important for ChromeOS given its reliance on the Chrome browser for much of its activity, and it again scores at the top of the Chromebook heap.
I could keep as many Chrome tabs open as I liked and run a few Android apps in the background without noticing any slowdowns. The Intel Iris Xe GPU also provided good Android gaming performance, with Asphalt 9 running smoothly (although not comfortably on a clamshell). Suffice it to say that the Chromebook Vero 514 is as fast as you’ll need your Chromebook to be for just about any task you throw at it.
Geekbench (single / multi) Speedometer 2.0 Acer Chromeboook Ver0 514 (Core i5-1235U) 1,437 / 4,909 201 HP Elite Dragonfly Chromebook (Core i5-1245U) 1,394 / 4,055 206 Acer Chromebook Spin 513 (MediaTek Kompanio 1380) 936 / 3,438 76 HP Chromebook x360 14c (Core i3-1125G4) 898 / 2,866 N/A HP Chromebook x2 11 (Qualcomm Snapdragon 7c) 590 / 1,689 45 Asus Chromebook Flip CX5 (Core i5-1135G7) 1,190 / 4,151 163 Battery life was solid, lasting for almost nine hours in our web browsing test. That beats the other 12th-gen Core i5-based laptop on our list but falls slightly behind the 11th-gen Core i5 machine. It couldn’t keep up with the ARM-based Chromebooks, unsurprisingly. It was stronger in the video looping test, with only six minutes separating it from the ARM-based leader. That’s likely down to the low-resolution display.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Depending on your workflow, you’ll probably get close to a full day of productivity out of the Chromebook Ver0 514. You might need to take a little more extended lunch break, though, to make it all the way.
Web browsing Video Acer Chromebook Vero 514 (Core i5-1235U) 8 hours, 51 minutes 12 hours, 36 minutes HP Elite Dragonfly Chromebook (Core i5-1245U) 7 hours, 59 minutes 9 hours, 13 minutes Acer Chromebook Spin 513 (MediaTek Kompanio 1380) 11 hours, 7 minutes 12 hours, 42 minutes HP Chromebook x360 14c (Core i3-1125G4) 7 hours, 44 minutes 8 hours, 2 minutes HP Chromebook x2 11 (Qualcomm Snapdragon 7c) 12 hours, 42 minutes 10 hours, 59 minutes Asus Chromebook Flip CX5 (Core i5-1135G7) 9 hours, 25 minutes 8 hours, 50 minutes An old-school and underwhelming display Mark Coppock/Digital Trends The laptop industry is moving away from 16:9 displays, instead adopting taller and more productivity-friendly 16:10 and 3:2 aspect ratios. I’ve also seen higher-resolution displays on lower-priced Chromebooks, like the 2K (2256 x 1504) display on the Chromebook Spin 513. That makes the 16:9 Full HD (1920 x 1080) display immediately disappointing.
I also found the display to be relatively dim, with underwhelming colors and contrast that couldn’t stop blacks from bleeding into grey. It’s not a terrible display for typical productivity tasks, but creators and media consumers won’t love it.
Audio quality was also underwhelming, with two downward-firing speakers that didn’t get loud or provide high-quality sound. Mids and clears were just okay, and there was no bass. You’ll want to use a pair of headphones or external speakers for streaming video and, really, for anything other than normal system sounds.
Great for the environment, but not a great laptop The Chromebook Ver0 514 contributes to the sustainability movement with a ton of recycled materials, and it has a unique look and feel. By that standard, it’s a solid notebook. By other standards, such as the disappointing display and mediocre keyboard, it’s not quite so impressive.
It is fast, though, and its battery life is decent. At $600, it’s not a cheap Chromebook, but it’s not overly expensive, either. Still, I find it hard to recommend to anyone whose priorities go beyond the environment.
Editors' Recommendations Google just made a big change to how Chromebooks apps work Editing video on Chromebooks just got a lot easier Powerful Snapdragon 8cx Gen 2 Chromebooks could be coming soon Chromebook gaming could get serious with rumored Nvidia GPUs on the way Chromebooks might get another great feature from Windows laptops Acer Chromebooks Google Chrome Laptop Reviews Laptops Product Reviews Windows Reviews Computing Chromebooks don't ask for a lot. Compared to Macs or Windows laptops, Google's Chrome OS operating system is lightweight and resource-friendly, able to run well enough on even modest hardware to get real work done. Toss in a speedy CPU, like AMD's Chromebook-specific Ryzen 7 5825C eight-core, 16-thread powerhouse, and it's going to feel real fast. That's precisely what Acer has down with the latest version of its Chromebook Spin 514 2-in-1.
I looked at a preproduction unit that is slated to be released in July 2022 at a starting price of $580 — putting it into the expensive Chromebook category. Mine was a higher-end Chromebook Spin 514 that will be more costly, but it was nicely configured with the AMD Ryzen 7 5825C CPU and a 14-inch IPS display. I couldn't do in-depth testing, because this is a preproduction unit, but this one shows some promise so far.
Design Computing Update: The new HP Chromebook x2 11 has launched. Read our full review of the HP Chromebook x2 11.
HP just announced a new Chromebook that promises to be a slim and portable solution to all your computing needs. The company’s latest release, the HP Chromebook x2 11, looks to be an easy-to-stow machine that has a great form factor, at least according to its tech specs sheet.
Computing The rumors were indeed true. Acer is taking Google's Chromebooks to a place usually reserved for Windows laptops like the XPS 17. Coming in June and starting at $380 is the new Acer Chromebook 317 --- the first 17 inch Chromebook to ever be released.
The star feature of this Chromebook is its super-sized 17.3-inch FHD 1920 x 1080 resolution IPS display, which should be more than enough space for multitasking in Chrome OS. The display has an anti-glare coating, and sports some support narrow bezels on the top and the sides --- though it still has a thick bottom chin as with most Chromebooks.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
