Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best 17-inch laptops By Tyler Lacoma and Mark Coppock Close A 17-inch laptop gives you a larger screen and keyboard, plus additional space for more powerful components. That makes this size a great choice for designers, gamers, and professionals who want a mobile laptop that provides impressive specs or excellent versatility.
To help you make your choice, we've collected the best 17-inch laptops for 2023, starting with our overall favorite, the Dell XPS 17. With its modern components and discrete graphics, it's ready for anything.
You also can take a look at our list of the overall best laptops for 2023 for more buying options.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Dell XPS 17 9730 The best 17-inch laptop you can buy Solid productivity performance Good gaming performance Excellent build quality Great keyboard and touchpad Superior IPS display Classic design Dramatic drop in battery life Webcam is just 720p No Wi-Fi 6e Productivity performance unimproved Why you should buy this: It's an excellent professional laptop with a larger display.
Who's it for: Professionals, visual editors, and many others.
Why we picked the Dell XPS 17 9730: While we are fans of the more compact XPS 13, there's also a lot to like about its larger cousin, the XPS 17, which retains many of the features that make the XPS line such a versatile option for laptop buyers — on a larger scale for those who really need more display room for their work.
This laptop starts with the Intel 13th-generation 45-watt Core i5-13500H processor with 12 cores (four Performance and eight Efficient) and 16 threads, and ramps up to the Core i9-13900H with 14 cores (six Performance and eight Efficient) and 20 threads. GPU options range from integrated Intel UHD graphics up to the Nvidia GeForce RTX 3080. Up to 64GB of DDR5 RAM and up to an 8TB PCIe 4.0 solid-state drive (SSD) round out the specifications. Display options include a 17-inch 16:10 Full HD+ (1920 x 1200) IPS panel and a 17-inch 16:10 UHD+ (3840 x 2400) IPS display with incredibly wide and accurate colors and deep contrast.
While the XPS 17 does have a similar compact design to smaller XPS machines, keep in mind that the larger display and greater weight (5.37 pounds) will make it more difficult to tote around. Find a compatible laptop bag, if necessary.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Asus ROG Strix G17 An incredible value in a 17-inch gaming laptop Cheaper than the competition Solid performance at native resolution DLSS 3 Fantastic keyboard Low battery life Some configurations have poor value Why you should buy this: You want a good gaming laptop that's affordable but has enough juice to handle your gaming needs.
Who's it for: Gamers who want top-tier performance at an attractive price.
Why we picked the Asus ROG Strix G17 With their larger screens and more room for powerful components, it’s no surprise that many 17-inch laptops are focused on gaming. But which should you look at first? We love this 17.0-inch ROG Strix G17 laptop, which sports extra RGB lighting for style and an excellent keyboard for top performance. The display runs at 2560 x 1440 and up to 240Hz, which is perfect for the laptop's performance.
Inside, you’ll find up to an AMD Ryzen 9 7845HX processor and a GeForce RTX 4060 graphics card to handle modern titles at 1440p. The primary port out is HDMI 2.1 if you ever want to switch to a different screen, and the laptop also comes with USB-C, USB-A, and Ethernet connections.
It's a lot of gaming laptop for the money.
Image used with permission by copyright holder MSI Creator Z17 HX Studio A portable powerhouse for work and play Fast CPU performance Solid GPU performance, including gaming Rigid and relatively portable design Good keyboard with per-key RGB lighting Decent connectivity Innovative pen Expensive Would benefit from a faster GPU Touchpad is smaller than it could be Battery life is weak Why you should buy this: You want a lot of power in a mobile workstation but aren't primarily interested in gaming.
Who's it for: Professionals with serious laptop requirements who will only settle for the best.
Why we picked the MSI Creator Z17 HX Studio: If you’re looking for a lot of power in a laptop that isn’t necessarily focused on gaming, then this MSI model has you covered. It offers an Intel Core i9-13980HX processor, up to 64GB of RAM, up to a 2TB SSD, and up to an Nvidia RTX 4070 GPU, all great specs for tackling larger projects that most laptops struggle to handle.
The laptop also includes a USB-C port in addition to several USB-A ports, plus HDMI and Thunderbolt 4. The display is a 17.0-inch QHD+ IPS display running at up to 165Hz. It's expensive, but that's the price you pay.
We highly recommend the MSI Creator Z17 HX Studio if you are looking for an effective mobile workstation that can handle more demanding tasks that you usually rely on a desktop to complete.
Image used with permission by copyright holder HP Laptop 17 An affordable large-screen laptop Affordable 13th-gen Intel CPU Good keyboard and touchpad Display is only Full HD Plastic construction Why you should buy this: It's a reliable 17-inch budget laptop that can get for around $500 depending on your spec choices.
Who's it for: Those who want a larger screen and keyboard on a budget.
Why we picked the HP Laptop 17: Others may be looking for a large laptop that’s friendly for their wallet, in which case laptops that are priced at thousands of dollars may not be a starting point. Here, we advise looking at this HP Laptop 17 model, which starts at around $650.
This model includes an Intel Core i7-1355U 10-core/12-thread CPU, 16GB of RAM, a 256GB SSD, and a secondary 1TB HDD. Connections include a USB-C port, two USB-A ports, a full-size HDMI 1.4b port, and a 3.5mm audio jack. Some of these specs are upgradeable, but this will also lead to a significant jump in price. The biggest compromise is the Full HD (1920 x 1080) display, but at these prices, it's a compromise worth making.
This mix of affordability and customization isn't easy to find. If you have limited funds and need a large laptop, then the HP Laptop 17 is for you.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends / Digital Trends LG Gram 17 A thin and light 17-inch laptop Exceptionally light Fast when set to performance mode Excellent display Very good keyboard and touchpad Outstanding battery life Feels a little flimsy Too expensive Why you should buy this: You want a highly portable laptop with a larger display for work or play.
Who’s it for: People who appreciate a larger screen but are carrying their laptop around all day and prefer a lightweight option.
Why we picked the LG Gram 17: For laptop users who are always traveling, consider the LG Gram 17 for a lighter, extremely portable option than the laptops you’ve previously used. This device weighs in at less than 3 pounds. Don’t let that number fool you, though. Despite its weight, the laptop packs a powerful punch — it uses a durable, nanocarbon, “military-grade” magnesium metal frame to keep the weight down.
The LG Gram 17 is powerful. The latest model comes with up to the i7-1260P, a 12th-gen Intel Core processor. You can also configure it with up to 32GB of RAM and a 1TB SSD for storage. Ports include USB-A 3.1, USB-C/Thunderbolt 4, and HDMI. In addition, the laptop features top-notch security systems, like its biometric safety feature: the built-in fingerprint reader. The battery life can vary a bit for this 17-inch laptop. However, LG says you can expect about 17 hours on average, depending on how you’re using the device.
As we mentioned, this laptop’s durability ranks at a “military-grade” level. Its safety features are a standout in its field, as well. The lightweight LG Gram 17-inch can be transported easily and won’t get in your way while you’re on the move.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Alienware m17 R5 A highly configurable large-screen gamer Reasonably priced Powerful components UHD 120Hz display option Mechanical per-key RGB keyboard Heavy Why you should buy this: It's a gaming laptop that can serve as much more.
Who’s it for: Gamers interested in a mobile solution.
Why we picked the Alienware m17 R5: This Alienware model is a versatile middle-of-the-road option for gamers who prefer a robust laptop for gaming on the go but are also interested in a model that can handle work or school tasks. The laptop is well-equipped for either, with a base model that starts with an AMD Ryzen 7 6800H processor and a GeForce RTX 3050 Ti to handle all your graphical needs. Up to the AMD Ryzen 9 6900H CPU and RTX 3080 Ti can be configured for the ultimate gaming power.
The FHD display also impresses, with support for up to a 360Hz refresh rate and built-in G-Sync support to help reduce tearing. RAM starts at 16GB and storage at a 256GB PCIe SSD, but you can also upgrade these specs depending on how much you are willing to spend and what sort of gaming you'd like to support. The Alienware m17 R5 also includes USB-A 3.2, USB-C 3.2, HDMI 2.1b, and Ethernet connection options.
Frequently Asked Questions While you can get old-school 16:9 Full HD (1920 x 1080) displays for 17-inch laptops, that's not what you want. With such large screens, you'll notice the pixels in text and images will be less than idea. The best display resolution for a 17-inch laptop is 16:10 UHD+ (3,840 x 2,400), which not only gives you a taller display that shows more vertical information but high enough resolution that text and images will remain sharp.
Higher resolutions do put more strain on battery life, but these machines aren't meant to be highly portable anyway, so carrying your charger with you is a solid compromise for a much more enjoyable experience.
In addition to the high-resolution display mentioned above, you'll likely want your 17-inch laptop to equip the latest and fastest components. Large-screen laptops are aimed at creators, workers, and gamers who require a ton of screen space, and if your CPU and GPU can't keep up than you're wasting your investment.
As of right now, that means Intel H-series 45-watt 12th-gen and AMD Ryzen 6000 CPUs. A discrete GPU, preferably starting at an Nvidia GeForce RTX 3060, is also a must. Finally, look for plenty of RAM, with 16GB as a minimum, and tons of storage so that the machine will grow with your needs.
You can also look for smaller and lighter chassis, as with the Dell XPS 17 that's tops on our list, but that does compromise performance. A thicker and heavier chassis often means better thermals, which will help optimize performance.
There's no doubt about it: the Dell XPS 17 that we list above is the best Dell 17-inch laptop you can buy. It's incredibly well built and attractive, features top-notch components and performance, and even gets decent battery life. Its UHD+ display is also one of the best IPS panels we've tested, with wide and accurate colors, deep contrast, and plenty of brightness.
The largest mainstream laptop display is 17.3 inches (the actual standard for 17-inch laptops). Anything larger is going to be a one-off oddity and difficult to find.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Best Black Friday laptop deals: Get a new workhorse from $129 11 Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals you can’t afford to miss today The best early Amazon Black Friday laptop deals available now Razer Black Friday deals: Save on gaming laptops, keyboards and more Best Products Laptops PC Gaming Computing Gamers who don't want this year's Black Friday deals to end without buying a powerful gaming laptop for much cheaper than usual should check out the offers that were launched by Razer. One of the most popular gaming brands, it doesn't disappoint with its high-performance and stylish machines. We've rounded up our top picks for Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals below, including our absolute favorite, so don't waste any more time -- find the model that you want and proceed with the purchase, while the discounts are still online. If gaming isn't your sole focus, you'll find other powerful laptops in our list of the best Black Friday laptop deals.
Best Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deal The top-of-the-line performance provided by the Razer Blade 15 actually makes it a steal at its discounted price, as it's the only machine that you'll need for the next few years if you're looking forward to some upcoming PC games. Inside the gaming laptop are the 12th-generation Intel Core i7 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3070 Ti graphics card, and 16GB of RAM, which are enough to run today's most popular titles at the highest settings. Its 15.6-inch screen with QHD resolution and a 240Hz refresh rate will give justice to all that power, and you'll be able to install several AAA games on its 1TB SSD that ships with Windows 11 Home. Originally $3,000, the Razer Blade 15 is down to $1,800 following a $1,200 discount from Razer for Black Friday.
Computing There's no need to wait for Black Friday deals because retailers like Dell have already rolled out some of their offers for the shopping holiday. Whether you're planning to buy a new laptop, monitor, or desktop computer, Dell surely has something that will fit your budget. We've rounded up the best Dell Black Friday deals that you can shop right now to help you decide quickly on your purchases, since you need to hurry to make sure that you're able to take advantage of the bargains. Like HP laptop Black Friday deals and Amazon Black Friday laptop deals, these discounts could end at any time. Any of these prices may return to normal at any moment, so act fast.
Top 3 Dell Black Friday deals Dell S2721QS 4K monitor -- $240, was $330 If you're looking for monitor deals to upgrade an outdated display, you should consider the Dell S2721QS 4K monitor. You'll be getting sharp details and vivid colors on its 27-inch screen with 4K Ultra HD resolution, and you'll also experience less stuttering and screen tearing with AMD's FreeSync technology. Your neck and eyes will stay comfortable with the help of the monitor's height-adjustable stand and Dell's ComfortView Plus that reduces harmful blue light emissions.
Computing Best Buy is having one of the biggest early Black Friday sales events, so if you want to pick up a new gaming laptop, it's a great option, especially since it has such a wide selection from both AMD and Intel. It's also worth checking out the My Best Buy Plus or Total membership; one or two of the deals below have extra discounts if you have it. For the most part though, we've done our best to shy away from any deals that require My Best Buy or anything of that sort.
Be sure to check out our lists of the best Black Friday laptop deals and Black Friday gaming laptop deals for a more generalized list of discounts.
Best Buy Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
