Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Acer Chromebook Vero 514 Review Chromebook vs Laptop Screenshot on a Chromebook Reset a Chromebook Best Chromebooks Chromebook Problems Split Screen on a Chromebook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best 2-in-1 laptops in 2023 By Mark Coppock Close The 2-in-1 form factor has certainly come into its own over the last several years. There's really no reason to limit yourself to a clamshell, as there's a 2-in-1 that will meet the needs of all but the most demanding users in terms of sheer performance.
We've reviewed every great 2-in-1 you can buy, including Chromebooks, convertibles, and powerful 15-inch versions. The overall best 2-in-1 at the moment is the Microsoft Surface Pro 9, with its fantastic keyboard that's as easy to remove as it is to type on, plus its 120Hz display and haptic-enabled pen. It's almost as good a laptop as it is a tablet, which is what makes it the best overall 2-in-1. test Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More Mark Coppock / Digital Trends Microsoft Surface Pro 9 A detachable 2-in-1 that's fully functional New colors look great Design and build quality are top notch SQ3 is a solid alternative Type Cover keyboard is excellent High resolution webcam No headphone jack Upgrades still too expensive Limited performance improvements Why you should buy this: It's the best 2-in-1 you can buy.
Who it's for: Anyone who just can’t decide between a tablet and a traditional notebook.
Why we picked the Microsoft Surface Pro 9: The Microsoft Surface Pro 8 was more than just a simple iteration. While the Surface Pro 7 was almost identical to the version before it, which was true for the previous six years as well, the Surface Pro 8 made much more significant changes that elevated its position among detachable tablet 2-in-1s. The Surface Pro 9 is more of the same, with only minor changes that include dropping the 3.5mm audio jack.
It maintains the same iconic Surface Pro kickstand and Type Cover, and so without setting it next to its predecessor, you might not notice the differences. But like the Surface Pro 9, it's made of aluminum rather than magnesium, it has smaller display bezels surrounding a larger 13-inch display (up from 12.3 inches), and its edges are more rounded. It's a more elegant and modern design that we like a lot.
Inside, it's powered by 12th-gen Intel CPUs and incorporates USB-C with Thunderbolt 4, an important update that makes the tablet compatible with external GPU enclosures. And the display was upgraded as well in the Surface Pro 8, now supporting 120Hz and the haptic feedback offered by the Surface Slim 2 Pen that more closely mimics writing on a piece of paper. The Surface Pro 9 is the first Windows tablet that can take on the iPad Pro, and it's the best 2-in-1 you can buy.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder HP Spectre x360 13.5 An elegant and well-built convertible 2-in-1 Elegant aesthetic Excellent productivity performance Rock-solid build Superior keyboard and touchpad Stunning OLED display Surprisingly good battery life Creativity performance is lacking Slightly expensive Why you should buy this: It’s the best convertible laptop.
Who it's for: Anyone looking for a 2-in-1 that works best as a laptop.
Why we picked the HP Spectre x360 13.5: The HP Spectre x360 13.5 marks a significant revision from the excellent Spectre x360 14, with a new, more rounded chassis and a spectacular OLED panel. It offers a compelling combination of performance, battery life, and price, and it's very comfortable to hold and use as a tablet.
The Spectre x360 13.5 uses Intel's 13th-generation 10-core/12-thread, 15-watt CPUs, specifically the Core i7-1355U in our review unit. That significantly increases performance over the previous-generation CPU while providing surprisingly good battery life. The OLED display is excellent, and the taller 3:2 panel allows for a larger palm rest and touchpad and more natural use in portrait tablet mode. Like all of today’s 360-degree convertible 2-in-1s, the Spectre x360 13.5 works well as a traditional clamshell notebook while still offering the flexibility of media, tent, and tablet modes.
The Microsoft Surface Pro 9 might be a better tablet replacement, but the Spectre x360 13.5 is excellent in every other respect.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Lenovo Chromebook Duet 3 A Chromebook 2-in-1 that's incredibly affordable Good enough productivity performance Excellent battery life Surprisingly good display Folio kickstand and keyboard included Strong value Keyboard is too cramped Limited to Wi-Fi 5 Why you should buy this: It's the best 2-in-1 Chromebook.
Who it's for: Anyone looking for a 2-in-1 Chromebook that's both a great tablet and a laptop.
Why we picked the Lenovo IdeaPad Duet: The Lenovo IdeaPad Duet is a Chromebook for people who like tablet designs and really like Chromebook prices but are still looking for the right 2-in-1 PC.
The slim Duet offers a 10.9-inch 2K (2000 x 1200) screen, a Qualcomm Snapdragon 7c Gen 2 CPU processor, and 4GB of RAM. Since it's a Chromebook, storage space really isn't a focus, but it's nice to see 64GB for those who need it for Android apps and Linux desktop software. Ports are limited to two USB-C 3.2 Gen 2 connections, one of which is used to charge the tablet.
While it's nice that the keypad includes a small touchpad for those who want it, it's still a little cramped for our taste. However, we rarely see similar specs made available at such a low price (and you can always choose a different keypad if you want to). Battery life is excellent at 11.5 hours for web browsing and 16 hours for video.
If you're looking for more like this, we've also gathered a list of the best Chromebooks.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends / .
iPad Pro A pure tablet that works great as a laptop Sleek and modern design Bright, vivid, gorgeous display Wild performance from the M2 chip Apple Pencil hover feature iPadOS 16 is super robust Stage Manager needs more work Lackluster, awkward front camera Prohibitively expensive Why you should buy this: It's the best 2-in-1 for tablet use.
Who it's for: Anyone who wants a tablet first, with laptop functionality a convenient add-on.
Why we picked the Apple iPad Pro: Apple's iPad started the tablet revolution, at least as far as the best tablets go. Today, the iPad Pro is the thinnest, lightest, and purest tablet experience you can buy, thanks in large part to a massive library of apps that are optimized for tablet usage.
The iPad Pro model that we reviewed is expensive, sure, but it's also surprisingly powerful thanks to its Apple-produced ARM-based M2 processor. Surprisingly, the iPad Pro is as fast as modern laptops at many tasks, meaning that you're no longer giving up performance to enjoy a legitimate tablet format.
The iPad Pro's display is also sublime, with a 120Hz refresh rate, 2388 x 1668 resolution (not quite 4K, but still luscious), 600 nits of brightness, and True Tone color support. The Apple Pencil active pen makes for an excellent drawing tool, and the Magic Keyboard gives the tablet laptop-like functionality, including touchpad support in the last versions of iPad OS.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Microsoft Surface Go 3 A tiny Windows 11 2-in-1 that shines Excellent build quality Superior display for a budget machine Great Active Pen support Small and light Surprisingly good real-world performance Can get expensive Mediocre battery life Keyboard and touchpad are cramped Why you should buy this: It's the best small 2-in-1.
Who it's for: Anyone who wants a tablet that can plug in a keyboard in a pinch — and doesn't want to spend a ton of cash.
Why we picked the Microsoft Surface Go 3: Affordable and slim, the Surface Go 3 gives you a classic tablet experience with Windows 11. It's also a notable upgrade to the first Surface Go, which was a very portable tablet but not that great on heavy workloads.
The newer model picks up the Surface Go 2's design and slims down the bezels while increasing the screen size to 10.5 inches. It also significantly improves performance using new processor options. Our pick uses an Intel Pentium 6500Y or Core i3 chip complemented by 8GB of RAM. The fast 128GB SSD makes it easier to handle work tasks.
The Surface Go 3 has ports for USB-C, a hidden microSD card slot to expand storage, and a headphone jack. The battery is rated for 10 hours, an improvement on the first Go's battery life, but still doesn't impress compared to other picks on our list.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Surface Laptop Studio A powerful 2-in-1 with an innovative design Most powerful Surface PC Gorgeous, 120Hz screen Fun 2-in-1 design Wonderful haptic touchpad Excellent build quality CPU holds back performance Why you should buy this: It’s the most powerful 2-in-1.
Who it's for: Business and creative professionals with money to spend on the best.
Why we picked the Microsoft Surface Laptop Studio: The Surface Laptop Studio is an innovative pull-forward 2-in-1 design in an all-metal chassis and with powerful components inside. It's not a direct replacement for the Surface Book 3 , but it's taken its place at the top of Microsoft's Surface lineup.
It equips 35-watt Intel H-series Core CPUs along with an optional Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 Ti, making it the most powerful 2-in-1 in our lineup. It can handle demanding productivity workflows while managing less demanding creative tasks as well. It can also do some gaming in a pinch.
You'll appreciate the 14.4-inch 3:2 display at a high 2,400 x 1,600 resolution and 120Hz refresh rate, and the panel supports the Microsoft Surface Slim 2 Pen's haptic feedback. With up to 32GB of RAM and a 2TB SSD, the Surface Laptop Studio is a portable workstation in a 2-in-1 form factor. Microsoft just released a new Surface Laptop Studio 2 with faster components.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Yoga Gen 8 A business-oriented 2-in-1 without compromise Attractive and innovative chassis Insanely thin and light Solid performance Excellent battery life Great display for productivity users Touchpad is too small Expensive Why you should buy this: It's the best 2-in-1 for business.
Who it's for: Anyone who wants a tablet that can plug in a keyboard in a pinch — and doesn't want to spend a ton of cash.
Why we picked the Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Yoga Gen 8: The Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Yoga adopts the company's iconic ThinkPad line to the convertible 2-in-1 form factor. It's a robust laptop, like all ThinkPads, but it's unique in the line in terms of its modern, yet conservative design that looks nothing like the usual black-on-black ThinkPad. And that's a good thing.
It's also a thin 2-in-1 at just 0.60 inches thick, making it comfortable in tablet mode. The included active pen attaches magnetically to the right side of the display and works well. Performance is good for productivity tasks, and battery life is exceptional.
Add in the ThinkPad security features and optional service coverage, and the ThinkPad X1 Yoga Gen 8 is a 2-in-1 that businesspeople would love to own.
Frequently Asked Questions A convertible 2-in-1 laptop can convert from a traditional clamshell laptop to a tablet. In some cases, it's a bit of a misnomer — 360-degree convertible laptops like the HP Spectre x360 13 can also be used in tent and media modes. The keyboard is not removable.
A detachable 2-in-1 laptop is a tablet-based device with a detachable keyboard accessory. In most cases, the keyboard is an additional cost, as seen with the Surface Pro family. You can keep the keyboard attached and flip it around so you can use the screen as a tablet.
The main advantage of a detachable 2-in-1 is portability — tablets are extremely thin, light, and easy to carry around — while they also work the best for drawing and taking notes on the pen-enabled display. On the flip side, they tend to have less powerful hardware than convertibles.
The 360-degree convertible 2-in-1, on the other hand, isn't quite as handy as a detachable, but it tends to work better in clamshell laptop mode — especially when using it on the lap, where it's more stable than most detachable 2-in-1s. The hardware tends to be better due to the lack of space constraints seen with thin tablets.
Recent 360-degree convertibles like our favorite Lenovo Yoga 9i Gen 7 make for great clamshells — in fact, it's a great competitor to the Dell XPS 13 even if you never end up flipping the display around. Modern 2-in-1s are fast, have long battery life, and often enjoy even better displays than the typical clamshell laptop.
If you need the fastest gaming laptop or professional workstation that uses the most powerful CPUs and GPUs, then a 2-in-1 PC isn't for you. As we mention below, 2-in-1s tend to be thinner and lighter because they can be used as slates. That creates some limitations in just how fast a 2-in-1 can perform compared to traditional laptops.
Technically, no, Apple doesn't offer the traditional 2-in-1 laptop. Its MacBooks are clamshell-only.
However, Apple advertises its iPad Pro as a detachable 2-in-1, although it uses the mobile iPadOS instead of MacOS for desktops and laptops. Like Microsoft's Surface Pro, the keyboard is an accessory, which adds to the base price. And because the iPad Pro uses a mobile operating system, you can't install traditional desktop software — which is where Microsoft trumps Apple with the Surface Pro 7, for example.
Still, Apple is improving how well the iPad works as a laptop by enabling mouse support and improved file system support in the new iPadOS.
A big disappointment for dedicated gamers is that many 2-in-1s lack the capacity for super-advanced CPUs and GPUs. You can use a 2-in-1 for gaming, but you won’t get the same high-quality graphics or frame rate that you’re used to on a real clamshell laptop.
The Microsoft Surface Laptop Studio has an Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 Ti GPU that makes it more than fast enough for modern games at 1080p and moderately-high graphics settings. Another choice is the HP Spectre x360 16, which can have a 35-watt 11th-gen Intel Core i7 CPU paired with an Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050. You can play a range of PC games at 1080p and still get decent graphics quality, but it’s still limited compared to a gaming laptop.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Black Friday laptop deal drops this Lenovo Chromebook to $149 The best Lenovo laptops for 2023: ThinkPad, Yoga, and more Best Chromebook deals: Cheap laptops starting at $180 Best 17-inch laptop deals: Big savings on big screens Best Products Chromebooks Google Chrome Laptops Computing Whether you're looking for a simple, cheap laptop or a gaming behemoth, HP is a great option to consider. There are always nice laptop deals at HP, on big rigs and simple Chromebooks. If you're not sure where to start, check out our list below. It includes HP laptops as cheap as $199 and as expensive as $1,250, with savings as big as $450.
14-inch HP Chromebook X360 -- $199, was $329 The cheapest option on this list is the Chromebook x360 from HP. It's a great option for students, since it runs fast and light, and the price is low. It does have some interesting bonuses, like the 2-in-1 ability. This is great if you like using a tablet but occasionally want a full keyboard for writing essays or answering emails. The HP x360 Chromebook has a FHD screen, 4GB of RAM 64GB of eMMC storage, and an Intel Celeron processor.
Computing To earn the crown as the best laptop in 2023, it needs to have it all: gorgeous design, killer performance, a productive keyboard, long-lasting battery life, and much more.
Each of the laptops below has been vetted thoroughly by us here at Digital Trends. Whether it's an affordable Chromebook or a top-of-the-line gaming laptop, they've all been subjected to real-world testing, as well as benchmark and battery tests, to collect data to objectively pit them against each other.
Computing If you want dependable performance from your next laptop, you should consider going for the second-generation Lenovo ThinkPad X13. Originally $1,449, a 62% discount from Lenovo slashes its price to a more affordable $549. We're not sure how much time is remaining on this chance to get the laptop with $900 in savings, so if you're interested, you should hurry. Stop everything else that you're doing and complete the transaction to make sure that you don't miss out on this bargain.
Why you should buy the Lenovo ThinkPad X13 Gen 2 Lenovo inherited the ThinkPad line from IBM, maintaining the iconic look, sturdy design, and business features of the laptops, according to our explainer on the Lenovo brands. Those are what you can expect from the second-generation Lenovo ThinkPad X13, which is more than enough for your day-to-day tasks with its 11th-generation Intel Core i5 processor, integrated Intel Iris Xe Graphics, and 8GB of RAM. The laptop is also equipped with a 256GB SSD, which will provide ample storage space for your files, and it's powered by Windows 11 Pro out of the box, so you can access the more advanced features of Microsoft's operating system.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
