Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Way to Hire Employees Highest Paying Jobs Best Business Laptops What is RingCentral? Best VPN Best Job Search Sites Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best business laptops By Mark Coppock and Jacob Roach Close A good work laptop makes the difference when it comes to productivity, and the best business laptops will keep you productive. We've rounded up seven laptops that do the trick for road warriors and home office veterans alike, combining power with portability and great build quality.
Although we've picked several laptops with different features and prices, one stands out. The Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Extreme Gen 4 is our top pick. It's built to withstand even the toughest beatings, all while packing in the latest and most powerful components. You can also take a look at our list of the best laptops overall for more options.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Extreme Gen 5 An upgradeable powerhouse of a business laptop Excellent build quailty Superior entry-level display Solid performance Good keyboard and touchpad Very powerful configuration options Performance was inconsistent Battery life was middling Why you should buy this : It's the most powerful 15-inch business-oriented laptop on the market.
Who it's for : Any business professional who needs speed along with great support and durability.
What we thought of the Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Extreme Gen 5 : Few laptop lines are as iconic as the ThinkPad. If you spend most of your time in a conference room rather than a coffeehouse, then chances are you've at least considered one of these laptops. The best is Lenovo's ThinkPad X1 Extreme Gen 5, a 16-inch laptop offering the best mainstream components with the usual ThinkPad aesthetics, build quality, and support. We've listed our Gen 4 review given that the Gen 5 is primarily a components update.
The base configuration comes with a 12th-generation 45-watt 14-core/20-thread Intel Core i7-12700H CPU, 8GB of RAM, a 256GB solid-state drive (SSD), and an Nvidia RTX 3050 Ti 4GB. A high-end configuration packs in an Intel Core i9-12900H with vPro, 64GB of RAM, up to 4TB of SSD storage spread across two drives, and an Nvidia RTX 3080 Ti GPU.
Lenovo pairs the internal parts with a 16-inch 16:10 WQXGA (2560 x 1600) display, which you can upgrade to a 4K+ (3840 x 2400) IPS display with 600-nit peak brightness. The high-end display looks gorgeous, though it'll tax the ThinkPad X1 Extreme's already limited battery life.
Like many other ThinkPad machines, the X1 Extreme Gen 5 is built for the MIL-STD 810G standard, so it is super durable, and the keyboard is excellent. For ports, it comes with two USB-A, two USB-C with Thunderbolt 4, HDMI 2.1, a 4-in-1 SD card reader, and a 3.5mm headphone/microphone combo jack.
Mark Coppock HP ZBook Studio G9 The businessperson's workstation Solidly built Spectacular display Thin and light for a workstation Excellent keyboard and touchpad Good productivity and creative performance Too expensive Performance doesn't match the price Terrible battery life Why you should buy this : It crams the power of a desktop workstation into a surprisingly portable package.
Who it's for : Anyone who needs massive number-crunching and visualization power on the go.
What we thought of the HP ZBook Studio G9 : If you edit 4K video, design buildings, or use 3D modeling to develop products, then you need more processor and graphics power than you'll find in the typical laptop. Chances are, you have a workstation desktop sitting in your office, and you need something almost as powerful to take on the road. That's where portable workstations come in, and the 15.6-inch HP ZBook Studio G9 is one of the best laptops for video editing.
 As with the ThinkPad above, we're listing our earlier generation review; the Gen 9 version is similar except for the internal components.
It all starts with a choice of true workstation-class components, including up to an Intel Core i9-12900H with vPro, Quadro RTX 5500, and 64GB of RAM. These are optimized for applications like Adobe's creative app suite, Revit, Navisworks, Enscape for architects, and AutoCAD and Solidworks for engineers. HP offers a 4K DreamColor display, too, that's incredibly bright at 500 nits and has 100% Adobe RGB coverage and true 10-bit color.
The HP ZBook Studio's ports are also ready for anything, including USB-A, Thunderbolt 4/USB-C with DisplayPort support, and HDMI 2.0. All this is packed into a chassis that's relatively light at 3.81 pounds and thin at 0.72 inches. That's plenty of highly portable power — if you can handle the price.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Dell XPS 13 Plus A thin-and-light laptop for businesspeople Irresistibly fresh design Great OLED screen Helpful performance modes Excellent haptic touchpad Webcam has been improved Gets warm on the bottom No headphone jack Battery life less than average Why you should buy this : It's one of the smallest 13-inch laptops you can buy and one of our favorite all-around laptops.
Who it's for : Anyone who needs the full power of a modern laptop but without the weight.
What we thought of the Dell XPS 13 Plus : Dell's XPS 13 Plus isn't exactly a "business-class" laptop, but Dell is no stranger to equipping enterprises. And if you're looking for the smallest and lightest laptop you can carry around without sacrificing too much power or compatibility, the XPS 13 Plus is among our top choices.
The laptop comes with 28-watt 12th-generation Intel Core processors, starting with the 12-core/16-thread i5-1240P but with plenty of upgrade options, ideal if you want top performance. RAM starts at 8GB, and storage starts with a 256GB PCIe NVMe SSD. All versions come with a choice of Full HD or 4K displays, with a 3.5K OLED option as well, and you'll enjoy the excellent design and build quality along with an edge-to-edge keyboard and haptic touchpad.
Graphics capabilities aren't truly impressive with the integrated Intel Iris Xe. It's not the best choice if you really need high-powered dedicated graphics power for design work. However, the Dell XPS 13 Plus remains one of the best 13-inch laptops we've seen overall.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends HP Envy x360 15 AMD A fast and secure business convertible 2-in-1 Excellent productivity performance Convertible 2-in-1 flexibility Good keyboard and touchpad Better-than-average security features Large in tablet mode Build quality is a little flexible Why you should buy this : You get all the advantages of a business-class laptop with the flexibility of a pen-enabled 2-in-1.
Who it's for : Anyone who wants to draw and take notes — and relax with a little Netflix on the side.
What we thought of the HP Envy x360 15 AMD: HP makes some of the best 2-in-1 laptops you can buy, a top pick if you need business features that a consumer convertible laptop just can't provide, such as enhanced security and extra durability.
The Envy x360 15 remains one of the best options in this field, with a spacious 15.6-inch FHD touchscreen, 360-degree convertible design, and ports including USB-A 3.2, USB-C, and HDMI (plus compatibility with Wi-Fi 6).
Inside, you'll find a six-core Ryzen 5 5625U processor and integrated Radeon graphics, plus 8GB of RAM and 256GB of PCIe NVMe SSD storage (both upgradeable). Ports include USB-C, USB-A, HDMI 2.0, and a multi-format SD media card reader.
Keep in mind, with that large screen and a keyboard that includes a numeric keypad, carrying and converting the HP Envy x360 15 is going to be a much bigger job than it would be for a smaller 13-inch laptop. However, the extra display room is also nice for sketching more detailed notes or drawings, so there's also an advantage to the size. Just make sure you have enough room! Image used with permission by copyright holder Acer Swift 3 (Ryzen) A faster yet budget-oriented portable business laptop Solid build quality Supreme performance Great value Comfortable keyboard Mediocre touchpad Dim display, narrow color gamut Why you should buy this : A light and surprisingly powerful laptop for a very affordable price.
Who it’s for : Anyone on a budget who needs a laptop capable of serious work.
What we thought of the Acer Swift 3 (Ryzen) : Typically, a budget laptop has to compromise on something, be it power, size, or storage. Acer's Swift 3 manages to offer powerful features with relatively little compromise anywhere. Most notably, the 14-inch HD laptop comes equipped with a Ryzen 7 4700U processor with an impressive eight-core design -- something that's hard enough to find on any laptop, let alone for this price.
Inside, you'll also find integrated Radeon graphics, 8GB of RAM, and a 512GB PCIe NVMe SSD. Ports include USB-C, USB-A 3.2, DisplayPort-over-USB-C, and HDMI. All this is in a design that's only 2.65 pounds, easily portable for on-the-go business work.
The Acer Swift 3 (Ryzen) is also up to date in all the right ways, including compatibility with Wi-Fi 6. There's even Alexa voice assistant support for voice commands, and professionals will appreciate the built-in fingerprint reader for security. Note that if you want to save even more money, you can look for a renewed version of this model, but for this excellent price, there's no downside to buying new.
More Digital Trends MacBook Air M2 A MacBook for business professionals Incredibly thin Upgraded webcam and speakers Shockingly good performance Battery life stomps the competition Screen and keyboard are world-class Worryingly hot internal temperatures Still only supports one monitor Why you should buy this : Apple's M2 chip does wonders for one of the best MacBooks you can buy.
Who it's for : Apple fans looking to upgrade and anyone interested in a laptop that's silent and powerful.
What we thought of the Apple MacBook Air M2 : Apple's M2 system on a chip (SoC) has done wonders for the MacBook Air, not to mention a redesign that brings the diminutive laptop in line with the larger MacBook Pros. Performance is on-par or better than the Intel parts that proceeded the M2, all while staying cooler and quieter. Some applications still aren't optimized for the M2, but developers have been pushing updates for Apple's new platform. Now, all the apps that matter run on Apple's new silicon, and sometimes, they even run better.
Outside of the M2 boost, the MacBook Pro remains the marvel of a machine it has always been. The keyboard is one of the best on the market, and the screen puts most Windows laptops to shame. It's also incredibly thin at just 0.44 inches.
For power, the M2 packs up to eight cores of CPU power, 10 cores of GPU power, and up to 24GB of RAM. The base 13.6-inch MacBook Air M2 comes with 256GB of SSD storage, but you bump that up to 2TB, depending on your configuration.
The latest MacBook Air M2 comes with all the upsides of previous models, plus a little more. It comes with all the downsides, too. The latest model sports two Thunderbolt ports and nothing else. Thankfully, you can get past the limited port selection with a decent Thunderbolt dock.
More Mark Coppock/Digital Trends HP Elite Dragonfly Chromebook A Chromebook tailored for business Outstanding Chrome OS performance Superior haptic touchpad Beautiful display Attractive aesthetic Google Enterprise support with vPro Excellent connectivity with Thunderbolt 4 Expensive Below-average battery life Why you should buy this : It's one of the best Chromebooks on the market, and you can configure it with solid parts.
Who it's for : Anyone who wants the power of a Windows laptop without the clutter.
What we thought of the HP Elite Dragonfly Chromebook : The HP Elite Dragonfly Chromebook is one of the pricier Chromebooks on the market, though it's still cheaper than some of the other laptops on this list. It's also the most innovative Chromebook you can buy. It's the best of both worlds, combining options for capable CPUs like a 12th-gen i7-1265U with vPro with Chrome OS Enterprise's supreme usability and business support. The base configuration comes with an Intel Core i3-1215U, 8GB of RAM, and 128GB of flash storage, but you can trick the Elite C1030 Chromebook out with up to an i7-1265U vPro, 32GB of RAM, and 512GB of storage.
If you jump between web-based apps, the Elite Dragonfly Chromebook is a great choice. Chrome OS is streamlined, allowing you to focus on the apps that matter without too much clutter (or OS overhead). The keyboard is clicky and responsive, though it still falls slightly short of the best laptop keyboards. And the laptop is the first Chromebook with a haptic touchpad.
Additionally, the Elite Dragonfly Chromebook comes with Wi-Fi 6E and Bluetooth 5.2 on board, with an optional 5GB WWAN. For ports, you have access to two USB-C ports with Thunderbolt 4 support, one USB-A port, a full-size HDMI 2.0 port, a microphone/headphone combo jack, and a microSD card reader.
Frequently Asked Questions There are several factors that go into choosing a business laptop. Externally, choose a laptop that has a build and form factor you like. You’ll be working on the laptop, so you want to make sure it’s comfortable. Under the hood, most business laptops rely on their CPU performance. A mid- to high-end CPU from Intel or AMD will help tear through spreadsheets and most demanding applications. If you’re new to the world of processors, make sure to read our CPU buying guide.
We recommend at least 8GB for a business laptop. The amount of RAM you need mostly depends on what applications you’re running, but 8GB is great for browsing, office applications, and messaging applications. If you’re working with large Photoshop files or something similar, consider upgrading to 16GB. Make sure to read our guide on how much RAM you need if you’re still lost.
Business laptops aren’t inherently good for gaming, but there’s some overlap. Top business laptops come with powerful processors and a lot of RAM, both of which are good for gaming. However, most business laptops don’t come with a dedicated graphics card. Without that, most business laptops are only good for light gaming. Some models are available with a dedicated graphics card, though, such as the Dell XPS 15.
You can claim your laptop as a business expense as long as you use it solely for business. The IRS allows you to deduct the business portion of usage only. So, if you split your time evenly between work and personal time, you can deduct half of the cost of the laptop. Additionally, you can deduct the cost of equipment at once or over the course of several years as a depreciating asset.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Best Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals: Chromebooks, gaming laptops, and more Best Buy Black Friday deals: 12 best offers you can shop now 11 Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals you can’t afford to miss today The best early Amazon Black Friday laptop deals available now Business Best Products Business Laptops Computing Even if your router is only four or five years old, it might be time for an upgrade, given the recent advances in router tech, such as Wi-Fi 6, which has become much more prominent. The same also applies to mesh routers, which have more advanced technology that can handle multiple connected devices, such as smart lights, home security systems, phones, and so forth. Of course, you don't have to pay a lot of money to grab yourself a new router, and there are even some great Black Friday deals you can take advantage of that will save you a little bit of extra cash. We've collected some of our favorite deals on routers below, but be sure to check back regularly as we update with newer and better deals.
Best Router Black Friday Deals Routers are a great option if you don't have a large home or need to cover a lot of square footage, and putting them near you means that you get much better speeds and lower latency when connecting through Wi-Fi. Of course, that may not always be an option, so it's important to know what sort of capacity and speeds routers can do. Most routers will have an "AX" followed by a set of numbers that dictates the maximum speed it can reach, and the rule of thumb is generally that this maximum speed only applies when you're really close to the router, so the further out you go, the less speed you'll get. It's not perfect, but generally more powerful routers that can hit higher speeds will be able to connect at higher speeds further away, although its always best to check the actual real-world performance of a router before taking the plunge.
Computing If you're planning to get a new gaming laptop or other gaming accessories, you should check out the Black Friday deals on Razer products. It's one of the most popular brands among gamers because of its high-performance and stylish devices, and for the shopping holiday, you can get them with huge discounts. You're going to have to hurry with your chosen purchases once you've decided what to buy though, because stocks for some of these bargains may already be running low. If you're not set on Razer, be sure to shop the rest of Black Friday laptop deals and Black Friday gaming laptop deals to compare prices.
Best Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals Computing Gamers who don't want this year's Black Friday deals to end without buying a powerful gaming laptop for much cheaper than usual should check out the offers that were launched by Razer. One of the most popular gaming brands, it doesn't disappoint with its high-performance and stylish machines. We've rounded up our top picks for Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals below, including our absolute favorite, so don't waste any more time -- find the model that you want and proceed with the purchase, while the discounts are still online. If gaming isn't your sole focus, you'll find other powerful laptops in our list of the best Black Friday laptop deals.
Best Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deal The top-of-the-line performance provided by the Razer Blade 15 actually makes it a steal at its discounted price, as it's the only machine that you'll need for the next few years if you're looking forward to some upcoming PC games. Inside the gaming laptop are the 12th-generation Intel Core i7 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3070 Ti graphics card, and 16GB of RAM, which are enough to run today's most popular titles at the highest settings. Its 15.6-inch screen with QHD resolution and a 240Hz refresh rate will give justice to all that power, and you'll be able to install several AAA games on its 1TB SSD that ships with Windows 11 Home. Originally $3,000, the Razer Blade 15 is down to $1,800 following a $1,200 discount from Razer for Black Friday.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
