Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Buy laptop deals: Cheap laptops starting at $169 By John Alexander and Andrew Morrisey Close One of the best places to buy a laptop online is Best Buy, as it always has some of the best laptop deals available. Best Buy has been a retail staple for electronics for decades, and shopping Best Buy’s online store often turns up laptop deals you won’t find anywhere else. That’s certainly the case right now, as there are a number of laptop deals you won’t want to miss out on taking place at Best Buy. They include laptops by top brands such as Apple, Lenovo, HP, and Asus, among others, and prices on these Best Buy laptop deals start at just $169. We’ve done the heavy lifting of rounding them all up for you, and if you need any additional help you can always refer to our laptop buying guide.
Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook — $169, was $319 HP 14-inch Chromebook — $199, was $299 HP 15.6-Inch Touch-Screen Laptop — $350, was $500 Asus 14-inch 2-in-1 Chromebook — $399, was $499 Lenovo Yoga 6 2-in-1 touch laptop — $450, was $700 Lenovo Ideapad 3i — $536, was $630 HP Envy 2-in-1 15.6-inch touch laptop — $570, was $920 HP Victus 15 Gaming Laptop PC — $650, was $900 MacBook Air — $800, was $1,000 LG Gram 17-inch laptop — $1,000, was $1,800 Microsoft Surface Laptop Studio — $1,400, was $1,800 Microsoft Surface Laptop 5 — $1,500, was $1,800 Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook — $169, was $319.
The Lenovo Slim 3 Chromebook is a low cost laptop with surprisingly good user reviews, an attractive look, and a couple of surprises up its sleeve. It’s a 14-inch FHD touchscreen computer, runs on Chrome OS, and 4GB of RAM, and 64GB of eMMC flash memory. Surprisingly, for this price, it has a built-in FHD webcam and microphone, WiFi 6 capabilities, and two speakers built into the sides for great stereo sound. This laptop is perfect for browsing the net, writing the next great American novel, or getting lost on YouTube instead of writing the next great American novel. And, as a fun little bonus, it comes with Minecraft free, making it a great first laptop for your kids as well.
HP 14-inch Chromebook — $199, was $299 HP The HP 14-inch Chromebook is a fast and fun computing device. It is a great option for anyone searching the best laptops for high school students or the best laptops for college.
 It has an Intel Celeron processor and 4GB of system RAM that combine to push through homework assignments, work presentations, and hours upon hours of binge watching. The 14-inch screen sports HD resolution, and makes this HP Chromebook a great way to enjoy movies, photos, and other digital content. It has a minimal design that makes it as portable as any Chromebook. The HP 14-inch laptop is able to reach up to 14 hours of battery life on a single charge, making it a great all-day option for people who like to do their work on the go.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
HP 15.6-Inch Touch-Screen Laptop — $350, was $500 HP Another item that proves you don’t have to spend a ton to get a decent touchscreen laptop. the HP 15.6-Inch Touch-Screen Laptop has 8GB of RAM and 256GB of SSD storage and uses a 12th Gen Intel processor. You’ll be touching a 1366 x 768p screen with a relatively thin bezel and flicker-free technology. The HP 15.6-Inch Touch-Screen Laptop has a battery life of over 10 hours, so you can touch and type and tap your way through a full work or school day without needing to stop for a battery top-off.
Asus 14-inch 2-in-1 Chromebook — $399, was $499 Asus This Asus 2-in-1 Chromebook is a very versatile portable computing option. It comes with 8GB of system RAM and 128Gb of solid state storage capacity. This should be plenty to run and house your favorite apps, and built-in cloud backup easily saves your files to your Google Drive account for both extra storage and for extra security. The screen is a 14-inch display with Full HD resolution. It’s powered by AMD Radeon graphics, which makes the ASUS 2-in-1 Chromebook a great device for doing creative work, as well as for immersing yourself in your favorite binge-worthy content. Its convertible form factor allows you to get comfortable with it however you see fit, and a built-in HD webcam makes it an option worthy of competing with some of the best laptops for videoconferencing.
Lenovo Yoga 6 2-in-1 touch laptop — $450, was $700 Lenovo Lenovo is almost always considered one of the best laptop brands , and its Yoga lineup is one of the reasons why. This model has a 13.3-inch touchscreen that makes it a good option if you need the power of a laptop but like the touchscreen functionality of a tablet. It has AMD Radeon graphics and 8GB of system RAM, and it’s powered by an AMD Ryze 5 processor. You’ll get Windows 11 preinstalled with this laptop, and a thin, light frame that makes the Lenovo Yoga 6 super portable and easy to take anywhere with you.
Lenovo Ideapad 3i — $536, was $630.
If you’re interested in the best Lenovo deals going on right now, don’t forget about the Lenovo Ideapad 3i. It is a 15.6-inch laptop with an FHD screen, Intel Core i5 processor, 8GB of memory, and a 512GB SSD hard drive. Our expert’s buying guide for laptops puts the original pricing of the Lenovo Ideapad 3i in a firm “Mainstream” price range, with the 8GB of memory being considered the “sweet spot” for a laptop. Combine this with the fact that now, on sale, the Ideapad 3i is down to an “Entry Level” price bracket and you have yourself a fine deal.
HP Envy 2-in-1 15.6-inch touch laptop — $570, was $920 HP The HP Envy lineup of laptops is known for being affordable, yet still providing all of the power, portability, and comfort we require in our mobile computing devices. This makes the HP Envy x360 convertible touchscreen laptop a great option for just about anyone. It’s well designed and super slim, making it a truly go-anywhere device. And despite its portability, it still has a 15.6-inch touchscreen that’ comes in at Full HD resolution. This display is great for creators, note-takers, and anyone who wants to get comfortable with some binge watching. Top notch build quality and durability, fast charging technology, Thunderbolt 4 connectivity, and great battery life round out the top features of the HP Envy x360 convertible touchscreen laptop.
HP Victus 15 Gaming Laptop PC — $650, was $900 Mark Coppock / Digital Trends One of the best gaming laptop deals at the moment, the HP Victus 15 Gaming Laptop PC is notable for its inclusion of a powerful NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3050. It’s also got a 15.6-inch screen with a Full HD resolution and a 144Hz refresh rate. It sports a backlit keyboard (and keypad) for late night gaming and advanced cooling software to keep your thighs from burning after gaming for hours. Want to keep up with your team but aren’t quite ready to buy a gaming headset ? The HP Victus 15 Gaming Laptop PC has AI noise removal, so your team will hear you and not the party across the street.
MacBook Air — $800, was $1,000 Digital Trends This MacBook Air deal is one of the best MacBook deals going on at the moment, taking the usually quite expensive devices down to an affordable price. Our review of the MacBook Air noted the laptop’s high-quality performance despite it’s small (13.3-inch) size. To put it into perspective, we still think the MacBook Air beats the Dell XPS 13 in 2023 , despite the well-renowned Dell’s high-quality performance. The MacBook Air uses the Apple M1 chip, has 8GB of memory, 256GB of SSD storage, and — interestingly enough — is fanless.
LG Gram 17-inch laptop — $1,000, was $1,800 LG If you’re looking for a laptop with a larger display, this 17-inch LG Gram laptop is a good option. Its larger footprint allows for some additional internal specs, and these include 16GB of RAM and a 1TB solid state drive. It also has Thunderbolt 4 connectivity, allowing you to connect dual 4K monitors or a single 8K monitor. Specs like these put this laptop into a near-professional category, yet its price point makes it an option for anybody looking for a capable laptop. Despite its larger screen size, the LG Gram is designed to be ultra light.
Microsoft Surface Laptop Studio — $1,400, was $1,800 Microsoft With announcements about the Microsoft Surface Laptop Studio 2 already out, the time is high to get a good deal on the original. The original that is still found on the list for best 2-in-1 laptops for its brilliant 120Hz display and haptic touchpad. It is also enjoyed for its 2400 x 1600p screen, Intel 11th Gen i5 processor, 16GB of RAM, 512GB of SSD storage, and 19 hour battery life. You can even grab a Surface Slim Pen 2 (which magnetically attaches to the side) to make the Surface Laptop Studio your own personal drawing pad. Our Surface Laptop Studio review goes into a lot more detail on the different modes you’ll be able to contort your Microsoft Surface Laptop Studio into. However, we’d like to highlight stage mode (shown above) where the laptop is angled up, leaving just the touchpad visible, which is great for both drawing and tapping due to how sturdy the laptop becomes in this position.
Microsoft Surface Laptop 5 — $1,500, was $1,800 Microsoft Surface Laptop 5 Microsoft The Microsoft Surface Laptop 5 is a powerful laptop that comes highly reviewed by Best Buy customers. It is favored for its high resolution 2496 x 1664p and 15-inch screen, 16GB of RAM, 512GB of SSD storage, and 17 hour battery life. Our Microsoft Surface Laptop 5 review highlighted additions like thunderbolt 4 and 3:2 aspect ratio screen. However, we’ve noted that the leap between the Surface Laptop 4 and Surface Laptop 5 isn’t as big as we might’ve hoped. However, judgements like this weren’t with a big sale going on being factored into the calculations. In other words, if your old Surface Laptop 4 is starting to show some wear and you’re wanting to stay with the same line, now is the time to buy.
Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Best Chromebook Black Friday deals on HP, Lenovo, and more Best Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals: Chromebooks, gaming laptops, and more Best Black Friday laptop deals: Get a new workhorse from $129 Don’t miss this Meta Quest 2 Black Friday deal — Save 17% Deals Cheapest Prices Laptops Computing Lenovo is probably one of the best-known laptop makers, especially since they have an incredibly wide variety of them to choose from. That also means they have an excellent selection of gaming laptops, so you can hone in on something that fits your budget. That's especially the case with the ongoing early Black Friday deals that are seeing laptops being cut down in price across the board. That said, Lenovo's selection of gaming laptops is too wide for us to include all their active deals here, so we've selected some of our favorites for both AMD and Intel CPUs. Also, if you're not sure of where to start, you should check out our list of best Lenovo laptops for some good options.
Best Lenovo Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Lenovo has a wider selection of AMD gaming laptops, which is great if you want to go with something AMD-powered. Unfortunately, there aren't any good deals on Lenovo laptops with both an AMD CPU and GPU, but the selection below is wide enough to pick something that fits your needs a bit better. And, if you want something with an RTX 4090 on a budget, then the AMD version is probably the cheapest for Lenovo.
Web With so many Black Friday deals already under way, it can be tough to keep on top of everything. Walmart has dozens of different awesome deals so we've narrowed things down to the best Walmart Black Friday deals currently available. There's a little bit of everything here with discounts on TVs, headphones, laptops, coffee makers, and much more. The retailer is also having a massive Black Friday Lego sale. Whatever you're considering buying, keep reading while we take you through some great options.
Other retailers have started early too, so check out Amazon Black Friday deals and Best Buy Black Friday deals.
Web Best Buy is pulling out the big guns this Black Friday to compete with Amazon Black Friday deals, and we're seeing a lot of great deals across the board, whether you want a laptop, a vacuum cleaner, or a fitness tracker. Of course, there are a lot of deals to go through, so we've done our best to collect some of our favorite ones below so that you don't have to. We'll also be updating this page as more and better deals come along, so be sure to check back regularly. Also, be sure to check out the Walmart Black Friday sale, as it's also going all out in the hopes of competing with Amazon.
Top 3 Best Buy Black Friday Deals Nest Hub -- $60, was $100 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
