Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Dell laptops for 2023: XPS, Inspiron, and more By Jon Martindale and Mark Coppock Close Picking the best Dell laptop is no easy task, as the company produces several great laptops every year, some of which are the best budget laptops or even the best laptops overall. The affordable XPS 13 9315 — which packs an almost magical amount of power and functionality into one of the tiniest chassis of all — is a case in point and our top pick. But there are some other options to consider, depending on what you need it for. We've rounded them all up below in our definitive list of the best Dell laptops you can buy today.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Digital Trends Dell XPS 13 9315 One of the best XPS laptops is also the most affordable Aggressive price Very compact design Great battery life Comfortable keyboard Display is bright and high quality No headphone jack Performance is lacking Why you should buy this : It's the most affordable XPS laptop.
Who's it for : Just about anyone except gamers.
What we thought about the XPS 13 9315 : We've been big fans of the XPS 13 for years now, and the 2022 version received a major update. The chassis lost the carbon and glass fiber palm rest options and converted to an all-aluminum design that's more modern but stands out less. The build quality remains excellent. The laptop also updated to Intel 12th-gen CPUs, specifically 9-watt versions of Intel's 12th-gen U-series CPUs.
Mainly, the new XPS 13 9315 competes directly with Apple's MacBook Air M2 , offering an affordable machine with a 16:10 13.4-inch display and the same excellent keyboard and touchpad as previous models. The XPS 13 provides a solid mix of performance and battery life, making it a good choice for anyone wanting a great 13-inch laptop.
Ports include two Thunderbolt 4/USB-C ports but no 3.5mm audio jack, and Wi-Fi 6E support is also included.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Dell XPS 13 Plus Innovations abound a well-built 13-inch laptop Irresistibly fresh design Great OLED screen Helpful performance modes Excellent haptic touchpad Webcam has been improved Gets warm on the bottom No headphone jack Battery life less than average Why you should buy this : It's powerful, has a spectacular display, and is the most innovative XPS yet.
Who's it for : Anyone who wants a high-tech 13-inch machine.
What we thought about the XPS 13 Plus : Dell split the XPS 13 into two machines in its latest revision. The XPS 13 9315, featured above, is a more affordable option, while the XPS 13 Plus takes the iconic machine in some new directions.
The first XPS 13 Plus innovation is a haptic touchpad, a first for the XPS line. It's a solid implementation that lets users click anywhere on the touchpad's surface with a haptic engine that closely mimics physical buttons. The edge-to-edge keyboard is also a first, and it's shallower but offers precise, snappy switches and large keycaps. Finally, the LED touch function keys save thickness and offer a more modern look.
Where the XPS 13 9315 focuses on quiet, cool, and efficient performance with 9-watt CPUs, the XPS 13 Plus has more powerful 28-watt Intel 12th-gen P-series processors. That makes it significantly faster while being less efficient. The XPS 13 Plus also offers higher-resolution displays, including a 13.4-inch 16:10 OLED panel with spectacular colors and contrast.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Dell XPS 15 9530 A highly portable and powerful large-screen laptop Rock-solid construction and attractive aesthetic Strong productivity and creativity performance Decent 1080p gaming Excellent keyboard and touchpad Spectacular OLED display and outstanding audio Good battery life Gaming performance held back by underpowered GPU Overall performance is limited by thin chassis 720p webcam and Wi-Fi 6 are outdated technology Expensive Why you should buy this : Its display is beautiful, and its all-around performance is fantastic for creators.
Who's it for : Creative professionals who crave portable power and panache.
What we thought about the Dell XPS 15 : What the XPS 15 loses in portability over the above 13-inch laptops, it more than makes up for it in performance and screen real estate. Built upon some solid components that promise excellent performance for productivity and gaming, the XPS 15 is one of the best full-size laptops around. It's been recently updated, but the basic design has been left unchanged.
There's some new hardware inside, including 45-watt Intel 13th-gen CPUs. It has an affordable starting price of $1,200 which bumps to $1,699 for a discrete GPU (the Nvidia GeForce RTX 4050). The larger display looks beautiful – and color accurate – in both 1080p and 4K IPS with a 3.5K OLED panel that's drop-dead gorgeous.
Storage options range from 256GB to 8TB of storage (two 4TB PCIe SSDs) while RAM is upgradable to 64GB, and ports include two Thunderbolt 4, a USB-C, and a full-size SD card reader. This is a bigger, badder version of the XPS 13, and it remains one of the best Dell laptops out there.
Dell Dell Inspiron 15 3000 An affordable business laptop Solid keyboard and touchpad Large display for multitasking Quality build Affordable price Full HD 16:9 display 11th-gen CPUs Why you should buy this : You want Dell quality at a budget price.
Who's it for : Anyone who wants the latest Intel CPUs but doesn't want to spend a lot.
What we thought about the Dell Inspiron 15 3000 : Although not as premium as the XPS range of laptops, Dell's Inspiron notebooks are far from the budget-friendly portable systems of old. The newest Inspiron 15 3000 is a primary example, with incredibly affordable prices paired with good components for excellent value. That includes an 11th-gen Intel Core i3-1115G4 processor, 8GB of RAM, and a 128GB PCIe NVMe SSD.
You won't get the same tiny bezels as on Dell's XPS line or all-metal construction. But even so, this is a well-built laptop with reasonable dimensions for the money. The laptop also incorporates several enhancements that are welcome at these prices, including enhanced thermals for better performance and a hinge that lifts the chassis bottom off the desktop for better airflow.
You'll likely suffer some consequences in display quality and battery life, but the Inspiron 15 3000 overall performance is solid.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Dell G15 Gaming Laptop An affordable gaming machine Fast AMD processors Up to RTX 3070 Ti Fast refresh rates Solid build quality Affordable No per-key RGB lighting Below-average battery life Why you should buy this : It's an affordable gaming laptop with real power.
Who's it for : Gamers on a (relative) budget who want to play at high detail.
What we thought about the Dell G15 Gaming Laptop: The Dell G15 Gaming Laptop is a powerhouse gaming laptop at prices that are easier for gamers to accommodate. For example, the G15 Gaming Laptop can be configured with up to the AMD Ryzen 9 6900HX CPU for the fastest processor performance.
But the real gaming power comes from the GPU options. Buyers can choose up to an NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3070 Ti, which will run at 1080p with all features – such as ray tracing – turned on. Display options include up to a 165Hz panel that ensures tear-free gaming. Other options include up to 16GB of RAM and up to a 1TB PCIe SSD for optimal performance.
The G15 is also a solid choice for anyone who wants to do more than just game on their laptop. The keyboard is okay for productivity, and the battery life is okay given the components and the target market.
Frequently Asked Questions Dell offers a range of laptops, from the budget-oriented Inspiron lineup to the more expensive XPS line of consumer machines and Alienware gaming laptops. Dell also offers the Latitude line for businesses and Precision portable workstations for creators, scientists, engineers, and others with a need for particularly powerful laptops. You can spend under $500 on a Dell laptop or well over $5,000 depending on the model and configuration.
In all cases, you're likely to get good value no matter how much you spend. Inspiron machines tend to be well-equipped and well-built, even given their often budget-oriented prices, while the XPS line offers some of the best build quality and performance in laptops today, justifying their higher prices.
Yes, Dell sells more than just clamshell laptops. It offers convertible 2-in-1 laptops where the display swivels 360 degrees into tablet mode, such as the Inspiron 14 2-in-1 and detachable tablets like the Dell XPS 13 2-in-1.
 One area where Dell hasn't delved into is dual-display laptops like the Lenovo ThinkBook Plus Gen 3.
Dell sells gaming units through two divisions. First, there's Dell proper, where you'll find laptops like the G15 Gaming Laptop that's on this list. Then, there's the Alienware brand, which offers a wide range of very high-performance and innovative gaming machines like the recently announced Alienware X14 R2 and X16.
While some vendors focus solely on gaming, such as Razer, Dell remains quite competitive in the space. You'll find Dell included in our best gaming laptops list, and given what it introduced at CES 2023, we expect to see more additions this year.
Dell has a couple of lines that are aimed at the commercial space. In fact, it's quite a focus for the company.
The Latitude line is aimed at the typical business user who's looking for a machine to fit into small and large organizations. The Latitude offers several features that appeal to the enterprise sector, such as Intel vPro processors that tap into enterprise security and management tools.
Precision laptops, on the other hand, are aimed at creative, engineering, and scientific users who need the most processing power and GPUs that are optimized for specialized applications. They're great choices for anyone who needs a specialty machine that can handle things like video editing, machine learning, and 3D cad software.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Best Dell XPS Black Friday deals on XPS 13, XPS 15, and XPS 17 Best 4K monitor Black Friday deals from Samsung, Dell, LG, and more Acer Black Friday sale: Gaming laptops, monitors and more The best Lenovo laptops for 2023: ThinkPad, Yoga, and more Buying Guides Best Products Buying Guides Dell Laptops Computing Not everyone needs the fastest CPU and the highest-quality high-resolution display. Sometimes, a machine with a last-gen CPU and a decent Full HD display is plenty for the web browsing, email, and Office applications that make up many users' workflows. This can be true for students, and sometimes buyers are looking for a secondary machine to augment one of the best laptops you can buy.
That's where budget laptops come in. The definition is a loose one, with some machines costing a bit more but offering a lot more to go with it. But they'll save you hundreds over midrange and premium laptops that are overkill for what you need. This list will provide several options, including for gamers and those with the lowest budgets. You can check out our best laptops under $500 and best laptops under $300 lists for even more affordable options.
Computing If you want to upgrade from a laptop with a small screen, you should be on the lookout for 17-inch laptop deals. These devices offer some of the largest displays that you can get on a laptop, but they range from affordable options to high-end machines, and are made by the best laptop brands. You can take your pick among all of the available offers online, but to help you narrow down your choices, we've gathered our favorite bargains below. You need to hurry with your purchase though, as laptop deals like these usually don't last long.
Asus CX1700CK Chromebook — $269, was $299 The Asus CX1700CK Chromebook is one of the cheapest options for a 17-inch laptop, because instead of Windows, it's powered by Google's Chrome OS. Chromebooks run smooth despite low-end components like the Asus CX1700CK Chromebook's Intel Celeron N4500 processor, integrated Intel UHD Graphics, and 4GB of RAM. Its 17.3-inch screen offers Full HD resolution, and you can supplement its limited 64GB eMMC with cloud storage on Google Drive.
Computing Whether you're looking for a simple, cheap laptop or a gaming behemoth, HP is a great option to consider. There are always nice laptop deals at HP, on big rigs and simple Chromebooks. If you're not sure where to start, check out our list below. It includes HP laptops as cheap as $199 and as expensive as $1,250, with savings as big as $450.
14-inch HP Chromebook X360 -- $199, was $329 The cheapest option on this list is the Chromebook x360 from HP. It's a great option for students, since it runs fast and light, and the price is low. It does have some interesting bonuses, like the 2-in-1 ability. This is great if you like using a tablet but occasionally want a full keyboard for writing essays or answering emails. The HP x360 Chromebook has a FHD screen, 4GB of RAM 64GB of eMMC storage, and an Intel Celeron processor.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
