Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best laptop brands for 2023 By Jon Martindale and Mark Coppock Close If you like to write, browse, game, or work in different parts of your home or office, one of the best laptops is a necessity in 2023. There are many to choose from, but you can first narrow your options by looking at laptops from the most established and respected brands.
Here’s a list of the best laptop brands in 2023 to get you started.
Dell Image used with permission by copyright holder Dell’s work, particularly in the Ultrabook field, has yielded an incredible new crop of powerful ultraportable laptops with excellent battery life. Dell’s machines are a great choice if you need a PC for work or school and want it to last for as long as possible. And Dell has arguably one of the best selections of business laptops in its Latitude 7430 line.
 These models offer a solid design and multiday battery life.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
This is especially true with its XPS models, which do everything to a high standard. They have the latest high-resolution screens, connections, and software, as well as innovative materials. The XPS 13 is no exception, now with two versions. One, the XPS 13 9315 , offers modern styling, an excellent build, and good performance at a lower price. The XPS 13 Plus is the innovator, with a hidden haptic touchpad, an edge-to-edge keyboard, and LED function buttons. For those who like larger screens, the 17-inch XPS 17 is one of our favorite 17-inch laptops.
And Dell isn’t resting on its laurels. Its XPS 15 and XPS 17 remain excellent laptops, albeit with Intel’s previous-generation 12th-gen Alder Lake CPUs. Existing XPS models are some of our favorite laptops ever, ticking just about every box you can think of. Dell models like the Inspiron 14 5000 are some of the most affordable options.
Dell’s laptops look great, offer decent internal hardware, and have heaps of style (and it also offers some of the best ruggedized options on the market). They’re made with premium materials, sport a solid battery life, and are light and portable. Some of Dell’s budget- or business-oriented laptops can be a little lackluster, but in the XPS line, it’s hit after hit.
Apple Image used with permission by copyright holder If there’s one thing that nearly everyone agrees on, it’s that Apple laptops are reliable and predictably high-quality. They last a long time, with updates that support older laptops long past when models from other brands have bit the dust. When you buy a MacBook , you know what to expect. You’ll get a fantastic screen, solid battery life, and a beautiful chassis with thin bezels. They do tend to be more expensive than their Windows counterparts, but when it comes to style, ease of use, and reliability, Apple laptops are top-notch.
Apple previously updated the MacBook line with its own faster CPUs and added connectivity while removing the controversial Touch Bar — all without raising prices. From fixing long-acknowledged problems with its keyboard design to shifting its laptops over to its own internal ARM chip, currently the M2 in the MacBook Air and the incredibly fast M2 Pro and M2 Max variants in the MacBook 14 and 16, it’s a great time to be an Apple fan.
HP Image used with permission by copyright holder HP may not have always had the best laptop reputation, but the latest laptops from HP have taken some design cues from its contemporaries and have raised the bar. Its current notebooks are fast, powerful, and easier for consumers to adopt for their personal projects. They’re also quite lovely, with a toned-down, gem-cut design adorning the Spectre line and a sleek, modern look to the latest Envy 15. Through it all, HP has earned a reputation for reliable laptops with very competent customer service.
Today, HP is a contender against some of the best laptop manufacturers in the world. Its Spectre x360 stole the show against the Surface Laptop in our head-to-head and continues to impress with HP’s consistent model upgrade philosophy. The OLED version of the Spectre x360 16 and Spectre x360 13.5 provide incredibly bright and vibrant displays that will please creative types and Netflix binge-watchers alike. If you need a thin laptop, be sure to check out the company’s latest Elite Dragonfly line.
Customer support options place HP in the top five of all manufacturers. With options for up to three years of a comprehensive warranty, you can net yourself some serious protection for your new laptop, too.
HP’s laptops may not always steal the show, but the best HP laptops are stronger today than it’s ever been and well worth considering if you want an alternative to some of the above offerings.
Microsoft Image used with permission by copyright holder A decade ago, no one would have thought that Microsoft would be one of the best laptop brands in the world, but today, it has a well-earned spot on this list. After a few iterations of Surface tablets with some reliability issues, the latest crop can go toe-to-toe with the best laptops from Dell, HP, and Apple.
Microsoft’s Surface Pro 9 is one of our favorite 2-in-1s right now. Microsoft also updated its hardware lineup ahead of the launch of Windows 11. Newest to the list is the Surface Laptop Studio , which replaces the Surface Book for creative professionals, while the Surface Pro 9 mentioned above is a significant upgrade that adds refinement and polish at a cost.
Even more midrange devices like the Surface Laptop 5 (with both 13- and 15-inch versions) and a budget tablet like the Surface Go 3 help bolster Microsoft as one of the best laptop brands today.
The company also offers a standard one-year warranty for Surface products should new owners run into trouble, along with 90 days of free technical support. If you are more interested in a tablet-like 2-in-1 for professional purposes, Microsoft has also integrated a 5G model into the Surface Pro 9 lineup, providing an alternative to the iPad Pro, with more connection options and a Windows 11 on an ARM chip.
Not all Surface devices are fantastic, and their prices tend to escalate very fast as you choose higher specs, but they’re still some of the best task-oriented laptops on the market.
Asus Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Asus laptops might not often take the top spot in our best-of lists, but they usually warrant place high up thanks to their fantastic all-around capabilities. The current crop of its laptops includes thin and light Zenbooks, affordable Chromebooks, and powerful gaming machines like the incredible 2023 ROG Zephyrus G14.
 And as much as anyone, Asus is leading the movement to tiny bezels that pack as much laptop as possible into the smallest chassis.
For the savvy consumer who favors attractive and distinct-looking tech, look no further than the Asus Zenbook S 13 OLED.
 This laptop features a beautiful OLED screen and an AMD Ryzen 7 6800U CPU for astounding performance in such a tiny laptop. There are other stellar choices in the Asus family, including the ZenBook Pro 16X, which provides an innovative keyboard design and outstanding performance, and the ZenBook Pro 14 Duo OLED , which features not just one, but two outstanding displays. Both of those laptops feature slim bezels, powerful performance, and well-built chassis.
Asus has also been bold with experimenting with new designs, and it’s one of the earlier companies to give its own take on laptops with two screens, but in a more traditional form factor that we know today.
Asus strongly resembles David in the story of David and Goliath. The lesser-known company continues to stack up against giants like Dell, HP, and Apple. It makes reliable laptops at genuinely affordable prices — and the company takes it a step further by adding yearlog accident- and spill-protection warranties for free.
Razer Image used with permission by copyright holder Razer is well-known for its flashy gaming accessories, but the brand also offers a powerful line of gaming laptops designed to take even demanding games on the go and support a more versatile VR experience that doesn’t chain you to a desktop space. Razer laptops are built well and they last forever — at least until they’re no longer able to run the latest title at acceptable frame rates.
Just how good are we talking? The 2022 Razer Blade 15 introduced an incredible 240Hz refresh rate in an OLED display, and offers incredible HDR gaming. And the Blade line regularly makes our lists for the best gaming computers , offering the power, RAM, display, and cooling capacity that gamers need for the best results. And with the release of our pick for the best gaming laptop , the Razer Blade 14 with AMD Ryzen 6000 chips, the future looks very bright.
However, Razer doesn’t only impress with gaming laptops. The Razer Book 13 , essentially a powerhouse stripped of gaming flair, impressed us so much we wondered if it was “nearly the perfect laptop.” Lenovo Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Lenovo is a brand that we have long associated with reliability, as its long-lived line of workhorse ThinkPad/IdeaPad computers have shown up in offices and classrooms year after year. They may not always look like much, but they’re durable and more than able to get the job done. It’s something that the brand has become increasingly skilled at.
In recent years, Lenovo has made a push toward extra-portable laptops and 2-in-1s without compromising on specs, and the results have been particularly impressive. The ThinkPad X1 Carbon line continues to be one of the best business laptops available, and the 10th-generation’s updates have been very welcome.
The Slim 9i emerged as one of the best 14-inch laptops in 2022, while the latest ThinkPad X1 Nano is one of the best choices for an ultraportable laptop under 2 pounds. Meanwhile, the ThinkPad X12 with its detachable screen is a worthy alternative to Surface Pro and Surface Book computers. Lenovo announced a brand new line, the ThinkPad Z , at CES 2022, and both the ThinkPad Z13 and ThinkPad Z16 are excellent, yet different additions to the ThinkPad line.
Acer Mark Coppock/Digital Trends You’ll find that Acer laptops and accessories frequently show up on our recommendations for affordable or budget computing. And while the brand does have a respectable reputation for producing competent budget models like the Acer Aspire 5 , Acer also has other specializations that help it stand out in the right situations.
Take the Acer Swift 3 OLED 2022 , which we found to be one of the best showcases of Intel’s 12th-gen processors outside of Dell’s models; an ideal choice for a slim laptop that still packs a punch. Or the Acer Swift Edge that’s insanely thin and light.
Then there are more ambitious laptops that manage to be the perfect solution for specific needs, like the Acer ConceptD 7 Ezel with a unique design (allowing six different positions) meant specifically for creative professionals and performance that wowed us. There’s a reason the ConceptD 7 Ezel won our Editor’s Choice Award upon review, and every artist should give Acer a look when upgrading to a new laptop.
MSI Image used with permission by copyright holder Start looking for gaming laptops, and it won’t be too long before you’re looking at some of MSI’s creations. MSI has a reputation for producing extra-solid gaming machines without the flair and RGB add-ons. They’re no-nonsense laptops that get you playing fast and can put in a solid day’s work when needed.
Recent years have also seen a more streamlined focus from MSI that has produced good results and improved the brand’s products. The MSI Prestige 14 Evo , for example, is a strong choice if you are looking for a more affordable 14-inch laptop that can still handle gaming, while the MSI Titan GT77 HD is one of the first gaming laptops with a mini-LED display. We also found the 2021 version of the GS66 Stealth is one of the best options for 1440p resolution gaming at 240Hz. That’s certainly an achievement for a 15-inch laptop! Laptop buying guide and FAQs When should I buy or upgrade to a new laptop? Do I need a laptop with a dedicated graphics card? How much memory and storage should I get? Can I use a gaming laptop to perform general office tasks? I need a laptop for travel — what should I look for? How often should I upgrade my laptop? When should I buy or upgrade to a new laptop? If you’re in the Windows camp, now is an excellent time to start shopping for a new laptop. Microsoft launched its new Windows 11 operating system, so we’ll start seeing plenty of devices that are refreshed or upgraded to ship with the new OS. If you already have a fairly recent model running Windows 10, it will likely be upgradeable to Windows 11, and you won’t need to buy a new laptop. However, if you want the best performance for gaming, creative work, or general productivity tasks, you’ll want to consider Intel’s 13th-gen Raptor Lake chips and AMD’s Ryzen 7000 series.
 For Apple fans, MacOS Ventura has been released, and the Mac maker has recently launched updates to its MacBook Pro range with its own even more powerful M2 silicon.
Do I need a laptop with a dedicated graphics card? Thanks to the power of integrated graphics, only gamers or those doing 3D design work need a dedicated graphics card.
 If you find yourself playing high-end games or working in Adobe’s software suite frequently, you’ll likely want to choose a notebook with discrete graphics. AMD’s latest Radeon RX 7000 series and Nvidia’s GeForce RTX 4000 series are excellent options. There are trade-offs to having a discrete GPU on a notebook — these laptops are generally thicker, heavier, and more expensive than models that lack it. If you’re a casual gamer, opting for a model with integrated Intel Xe or integrated Radeon graphics will be sufficient.
How much memory and storage should I get? This all depends on what you intend to do with your laptop. Most users will be fine with 16GB of RAM and 256GB of storage, but if you’re doing video editing or need to store a lot of large files, you may want to go even higher. Upgrading the storage and memory will quickly drive up the cost of your laptop, so you’ll have to balance your needs with your budget. And with cloud-based PC solutions such as Microsoft’s Windows 365 Cloud PC subscription , you may not need to max out on your physical hardware, as your laptop will serve as the thin client to stream a desktop that’s hosted in the cloud. Be sure to check out our laptop buying guide to get an idea of what to look for and what to expect in 2023.
Can I use a gaming laptop to perform general office tasks? Absolutely! Gaming laptops and PCs are among the most powerful consumer systems on the market today, and you don’t need a dedicated system for play and one for work. Instead, get the most powerful system that your wallet can afford, and you can use it for a variety of tasks, including gaming, cloud and web applications, programming, creative edits, and general office tasks. Some systems, like Razer’s laptops, are generally well-built, with subtle enough designs that won’t look garish or out of place if you take them with you into the boardroom. Many laptops that are specifically designed for gaming will come with more aggressive styling that may not look too professional for use at work, but they’ll still pack plenty of power to edit videos, apply creative touches to photos, and work in spreadsheets and Word documents.
I need a laptop for travel — what should I look for? There are many factors that go into making a laptop great. If you’re looking for a mobile solution, find something with a screen size ranging from 12 to 14 inches. This will give you a compact enough system with a large enough display to multitask and stay productive. If you care about the screen, choosing one with an OLED display will give you better contrast and colors, but they tend to be more expensive. Another factor to test on a laptop is the keyboard — most of your interactions will be through the keyboard and trackpad, so you’ll want to choose a model with deep key travel and a comfortable, ergonomic typing experience. A keyboard with shallow keys means that the keys will bottom out more quickly, leading to finger fatigue.
How often should I upgrade my laptop? That will generally vary from person to person. If you’re not pushing your laptop with performance tasks, it should last you for years as long as you take care of it. Many PC models allow you to upgrade either the storage, memory, or both, allowing the system to grow with you as your needs change.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Best Black Friday MacBook deals: Get an Apple laptop from $505 Black Friday laptop deal drops this Lenovo Chromebook to $149 The best early Amazon Black Friday laptop deals available now Best Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals worth shopping now Apple Best Products Laptops Computing There's no need to wait for Black Friday deals because retailers like Dell have already rolled out some of their offers for the shopping holiday. Whether you're planning to buy a new laptop, monitor, or desktop computer, Dell surely has something that will fit your budget. We've rounded up the best Dell Black Friday deals that you can shop right now to help you decide quickly on your purchases, since you need to hurry to make sure that you're able to take advantage of the bargains. Like HP laptop Black Friday deals and Amazon Black Friday laptop deals, these discounts could end at any time. Any of these prices may return to normal at any moment, so act fast.
Top 3 Dell Black Friday deals Dell S2721QS 4K monitor -- $240, was $330 If you're looking for monitor deals to upgrade an outdated display, you should consider the Dell S2721QS 4K monitor. You'll be getting sharp details and vivid colors on its 27-inch screen with 4K Ultra HD resolution, and you'll also experience less stuttering and screen tearing with AMD's FreeSync technology. Your neck and eyes will stay comfortable with the help of the monitor's height-adjustable stand and Dell's ComfortView Plus that reduces harmful blue light emissions.
Computing Best Buy is having one of the biggest early Black Friday sales events, so if you want to pick up a new gaming laptop, it's a great option, especially since it has such a wide selection from both AMD and Intel. It's also worth checking out the My Best Buy Plus or Total membership; one or two of the deals below have extra discounts if you have it. For the most part though, we've done our best to shy away from any deals that require My Best Buy or anything of that sort.
Be sure to check out our lists of the best Black Friday laptop deals and Black Friday gaming laptop deals for a more generalized list of discounts.
Best Buy Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals (AMD) Computing If the size of your laptop is the most important factor, a 17-inch screen is the way to go. Laptops this big are great for video editors, gamers, and people who stream a lot of content on their laptops. While the primary focus here is the screen size, there are some other benefits to larger laptops. For one, manufacturers can fit better components and fancier features into a large laptop. You'll see things on the list below like RGB keyboards and touchscreens. We've picked out options from across the Black Friday deals available today, including our favorite deal: $600 off the Dell XPS 17.
Best 17-inch laptop Black Friday deal The Dell XPS is one of our favorite laptop lines. They come in 13, 15 and 17 inches, and the XPS 17 is the cream of the crop. This particular model is on sale for $1,799, down $600 from its usual $2,399. Let's take a look under the hood.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
