Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best laptops under $1,000 you can buy right now By Mark Coppock Close The Asus ZenBook Flip 15 is the best laptop under $1,000. It's a budget PC with great performance, thanks to a fast CPU, a near-premium build quality, and a low-power and high-quality display that's hard to find at such a low price.
We're not just picking our favorite sub-$1,000 laptops out of thin air, though.
We've reviewed hundreds of laptops of all kinds and at all prices, spending thousands of hours doing so. It's a Herculean task for sure (and a lot of fun, frankly), and it has given us great insight into what makes for a good laptop and what holds a laptop back.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Asus ZenBook 14 OLED The best laptop under $1,000 Excellent value Competent productivity performance Great battery life Comfortable keyboard and NumberPad 2.0 touchpad Solid build and attractive aesthetic Outstanding OLED display Creative performance is lacking Why you should buy this : It's the best overall laptop you can buy for less than $1,000.
Who's it for : Anyone who needs a brilliant display and strong performance but doesn't have a huge budget.
Why we chose the Asus ZenBook 14 OLED : Let’s not mince words. The Asus ZenBook 14 OLED is hands-down the best laptop you can buy at under $1,000. Its incredible screen, fast enough processor, and long battery life make it appealing on all fronts. Our review notes that it is an outrageous value, and that's certainly true.
For one, it’s a laptop that sports an OLED screen for just $700. It’s a 14.000-inch 2.8K panel running at 90Hz, and the OLED makes HDR content look beautiful while providing inky blacks and accurate colors. Plus, the Ryzen 5 7530U is no slouch for demanding productivity work, and a faster Ryzen 7 7730U is an affordable option. The design may be a bit bland, but it’s by no means ugly, and the laptop is very thin and light. Plus, the excellent keyboard and trackpad combined with a 12-hour battery life more than make up for the lackluster design.
When it comes to affordable laptops , the Asus ZenBook 14 OLED is the one to beat.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends / Digital Trends HP Victus 15 Best gaming laptop under $1,000 Solid productivity performance Decent 1080p gaming performance Good keyboard and touchpad Conservative good looks Affordable Confusing configurations Poor battery life Ho-hum screen Why you should buy this : It's a powerful gaming laptop that doesn't break the bank.
Who's it for : Gamers who don't have a lot of money to spend on a portable gaming machine.
Why we chose the HP Victus 15 : Just a few years ago, it would’ve been unthinkable that you could find a gaming laptop under $1,000 with a graphics card powerful enough to run the latest games without turning the detail settings way, way down. The HP Victus 15 is something of a novelty in that regard. Often starting at less than $900, it features a 13th-gen Intel Core i5-13500H processor, 8GB of RAM, a 512GB SSD, and an Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 GPU. Faster CPUs and GPUs are options at additional cost.
Also, you can upgrade the 15-inch Full HD display to 144Hz, helping to avoid tearing during heated gaming moments and providing a much smoother experience at high frame rates. In our review, we found the Victus 15 to punch above its class in terms of both productivity and gaming performance.
Dell Dell Inspiron 15 Laptop The best business laptop for under $1,000 Fast productivity performance Good battery life Solid build quality Good connectivity Display limited to Full HD No business-specific features Why you should buy this : It offers everything a business user needs without a business-class price.
Who's it for : Business users who need a fast and functional laptop without needing to take out a loan.
Why we chose the Dell Inspiron 15 3000 Laptop : These days, an excellent business laptop isn't so different from any other laptop. That's why the updated Inspiron 15 3000 Laptop is such a perfect fit — it's simply a great 15.6-inch laptop with ideal specs for all kinds of business purposes.
You'll find everything you need for your work, including a fast 12th-generation Intel Core Core i7-1255U processor, HDMI for plugging into televisions and projectors, and a Thunderbolt 4/USB-C port for charging and extra-fast data transfer. Models start at 8GB of RAM and a speedy 256GB PCIe NVMe SSD. Graphics are handled by the Intel Iris Xe, although if you're doing more than basic gaming, you'll want a laptop with a more powerful GPU.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Apple MacBook Air M1 The best MacBook for under $1,000 Apple's M1 blows Intel away Phenomenal battery life Excellent keyboard and touchpad Rock-solid build quality Simple good looks Supports only one external display Why you should buy this : It's fast and power-efficient, and will fit in well in the college environment.
Who's it for : Students who want a fast and long-lasting laptop with an awesome keyboard and display, without taking out a student loan.
Why we chose the Apple MacBook Air M1: When the M1 MacBooks arrived, they completely changed the landscape of the computer industry. Apple’s M1 chip is incredibly powerful and power-efficient. While you could get more performance from the M2 MacBook Pro or M2 MacBook Air, the M1 MacBook Air offers a very similar experience at exactly $1,000. Shop around, and you can find it for even less money. Users also get 8GB of unified memory and a 256GB SSD.
The M1 MacBook Air looks a lot like the last few iterations of the lineup, but the M1 comes without any fans. That means you get a powerful and completely silent experience. If you want to upgrade your Mac for a reasonable price, the M1 MacBook Air is an absolute bargain at its price point.
More Microsoft Microsoft Surface Laptop 5 The best thin and light laptop under $1,000 Lots of color options Still thin and light Thunderbolt 4, finally Upgradable storage Still uses 720p webcam Limited performance gains No more AMD options Why you should buy this : It looks great and is incredibly thin while keeping within our $1,000 budget.
Who's it for : Anyone who wants an inexpensive thin and light laptop that looks great and provides good performance.
Why we chose the Microsoft Surface Laptop 5 : Microsoft’s Surface Laptop 3 left a lot to be desired, so the turnaround in just two generations has been fantastic. The Surface Laptop 5 upgrades to 12th-gen Intel Core processors, which significantly improves performance. As we note in our review, the Surface Pro 5 provides competent productivity performance.
Buyers also get 8GB of RAM and a 256GB SSD, aiding snappy operation and fast boot times. Combine that with the soft and aesthetically pleasing Alcantara fabric and the laptop’s thin profile, and you have one of the most functional and appealing laptops under $1,000. Battery life and built quality are excellent too. It’s a perfect option for students who want something decently powerful that is a MacBook alternative.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Lenovo IdeaPad Flex 5 (2022) The best CPU performance under $1,000 Incredible performance Tiny footprint 1TB SSD Great battery life May not be large enough for some professional users Why you should buy this : It provides great CPU-intensive performance at a budget price.
Who's it for : Anyone who needs to edit videos and photos but doesn't have the funds for a more powerful workstation.
Why we chose the Lenovo IdeaPad Flex 5 : Whether it's photo editing or video editing, finding a laptop right around $1,000 that can handle your needs will be tough. At least, it used to be that way before AMD released its fantastic Ryzen 5500 line of CPUs. Now, you benefit from a seriously fast processor that one of the latest laptop chips Ryzen has released, with a machine that's ready to keep up.
The Ryzen 5 5500U is complemented by the Radeon graphics card that designers will appreciate. Add in the 16 GB of RAM, and this little laptop can fit in any professional niche. It also holds an impressive 1TB of NVMe SSD storage. Ports include USB-C, USB-A 3.2, and HDMI.
This 2-in-1 also comes with a Lenovo stylus and an extra USB stick for more storage. Business users will also appreciate the built-in fingerprint scanner and the impressive battery life from the 52Wh battery.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Acer Aspire 5 A517 The best 17-inch laptop for under $1,000 Large 17.3-inch display Good productivity performance Good connectivity Attractive styling Display is only Full HD Not Thunderbolt 4 ports Why you should buy this : It's a large-screen laptop that doesn't require a large investment.
Who's it for : Anyone who needs a larger display for multitasking.
Why we chose the Acer Aspire 5 A517 : Acer has turned its Aspire series into a compelling budget option for many users. The Aspire lineup consistently strikes a balance between price and performance, and the Aspire 5 A517 is an excellent option for those looking for an affordable 17-inch laptop.
The Acer Aspire A517 comes with a powerful Intel Core i7-1165G7 and 16GB of RAM, making the Aspire a competent machine for photo and video editing. It also has robust ports including an Ethernet jack, HDMI, three USB-A (two USB 3.2 and one USB 2.0), and a USB-C port.
Combine that with its roomy 17.3-inch 1920x1080 display, and you’re getting a lot for an affordable price.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Acer Chromebook Spin 513 The best Chromebook for under $1,000 Solid productivity performance Strong battery life Excellent 3:2 IPS display Comfortable touchpad Affordable Keyboard was behind the curve Display bezels are large Why you should buy this : It's the best Chromebook you can buy at any price.
Who's it for : Anyone who wants a Chromebook with a great display, keyboard, and performance.
Why we chose the Acer Chromebook Spin 513 : Chromebooks are excellent budget options , particularly for students. However, that doesn’t mean there aren’t some fantastic options in the midrange for Chromebooks. Acer's Chromebook Spin 513 is not only great by Chromebook standards, but it’s also an excellent laptop in its own right. The 3:2 2K (2256 x 1504) IPS display is great, and its build quality and design are top-notch.
ChromeOS has also developed significantly in the past few years, primarily since it now supports Android apps. That makes the Chromebook Spin 513 a functioning Android-like laptop instead of a glorified Chrome browser.
If you’re looking for a Chromebook — either as a student or for travel — the Acer Chromebook Spin 513 is the best you can get right now that's well under $1,000.
Frequently Asked Questions Of course! As we said in the introduction, you'll want to be careful when buying a budget laptop to be sure that the manufacturer hasn't cut a corner that you care about. But frankly, the same is true for premium laptops — you can spend over $2,000 and get a laptop that won't meet your needs if you don't carefully identify what's important to you.
In the world of cars, the Honda Civic and Toyota Corolla have been two of the best-selling cars for some time now, and for good reason. They're affordable, safe, provide decent performance, and won't break the bank when it comes to maintenance. If you're looking for basic transportation, then you can't go wrong with either of these options.
The same principle applies to budget laptops. You won't get a new Ferrari at a new Honda Civic price, but if what you need is good performance and reliability at an affordable price, then our list proves that you can get quite a bit of computer for well under $1,000.
The choice depends on what kinds of tasks are important to you. We suggest that you check out our Windows, MacOS, and Chrome OS buyer's guide , which goes over the differences between each operating system and some of the advantages and disadvantages of each.
Chances are, if you're looking for a laptop that's less than $1,000, then you won't be looking at a Mac unless you're willing to buy the base MacBook Air model. That leaves a choice between Windows and Chrome OS, which is primarily a question of what software you need to run.
If you want the widest selection of software across most categories, then Windows will be your best bet. If you just need to browse the web, run simple productivity apps, and can get away with Android equivalents, then Chrome OS could work.
There are more choices now than ever. You can stick with Intel and get 13th-generation Core i7 CPUs in laptops that are under our $1,000 threshold. On the flip side, AMD now has a very competitive platform in its Ryzen 6000 series CPUs.
If you want to go well under $1,000, you can get a very fast Ryzen chip or an Intel Core i5, both of which are highly capable processors that will churn through most productivity tasks without hesitation — but the AMD Ryzen will be much faster overall. You can also enjoy good battery life with any of these CPUs.
If you buy a Chromebook, then you can get away with a slower processor, such as an Intel Core i3 or Pentium processor. And, chances are, you won't find many laptops with Core i7 processors in this price range. That leaves the Core i5 and AMD Ryzen 5 as the most logical — and available — processor choices for budget laptops.
The sweet spot for memory — for any laptop, really, not just budget machines — is 8GB. We answer the question of " how much RAM do I need" in more detail in our buyer's guide , but whether you're running Windows, MacOS, or even the more lightweight Chrome OS, 8GB will provide you with plenty of headroom for multitasking and more complex applications. If you want to do some gaming or video editing in your off-hours, though, 16GB wouldn't hurt.
Many budget laptops include integrated graphics, traditionally some variation of Intel’s Intel Iris Xe Graphics technology built into its Core CPU. This means that even the most basic laptop can run older games, though they’ll be low res, while still managing your other daily tasks. However, if you’re willing to consider AMD, you’ll get improved performance over Intel’s integrated options.
We’ve included budget laptops with acceptable graphics on our list. These will provide a much better gaming and content-creation experience than Intel’s integrated graphics can manage. If you’re willing to settle for 1080p and lower graphical details, you can get some real gaming done with a few of them.
If your budget is less than $1,000, you probably won’t be able to buy a laptop with a 4K display. It’s worth noting that it was challenging to locate Full HD displays under this price until recently. Your average laptop on a budget won’t have the battery strength it needs to support a 4K display. The display would drain your battery immediately, so you’d have to be always charging it, which defeats the purpose of having a laptop.
If you don’t want to fork over the money now, wait for a little while. 4K and batteries adequately supporting this resolution will become the baseline specs seen with today’s Full HD-based laptops.
There are, although they may be more difficult to find. Our Surface Laptop 5 is notable exception.
This, fortunately, is one of the most flexible laptop specs. You could choose a Chromebook, generally very affordable laptops, that focus on cloud storage, and add an SD card later if you need more space. Or you could choose a laptop with powerful specs and choose one of the lowest storage models to help you save more money. Storage can always be augmented by cloud storage or an external hard drive, so you have room to work here.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today 11 Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals you can’t afford to miss today The best 17-inch laptop Black Friday deals you can shop right now 10 best laptops of 2023: tested and reviewed One of the best gaming laptops you can buy is $330 off right now Best Products Dell Laptops Microsoft Samsung Mobile As much as we love having the best smartphones in our pockets, there are times when those small screens don't cut it, and we just need a larger display. That's when you turn to a tablet, which is great for being productive on the go and can be a great way to unwind and relax too. While the tablet market really took off after the iPad, it has grown to be quite diverse with a huge variety of products — from great budget options to powerhouses for professionals.
We've tried out a lot of tablets here at Digital Trends, from the workhorses for pros to tablets that are made for kids and even seniors, there's a tablet for every person and every budget. For most people, though, we think Apple's iPad Air is the best overall tablet — especially if you're already invested in the Apple ecosystem. But if you're not an Apple user, that's fine too; there are plenty of other great options that you'll find in this roundup.
Computing Sometimes you require more screen real estate, and a conventional 16:9 monitor just doesn't cut it. Whether you're a creative professional in need of an expansive curved display or a gamer seeking the ultimate immersive experience short of VR, there's likely an ultrawide monitor tailored to your needs.
But beware, once you've experienced an ultrawide, you'll be forever spoiled for conventional monitors. Even the crispest, most vivid 16:9 screen will pale in comparison. We've assembled the finest offerings on the ultrawide monitor market and rigorously assessed their suitability for games, movies, and even your workspace.
Computing With so many options, it can be hard to nail down the best monitor for your desk. We've reviewed dozens of computer displays over the years, and only a select few displays are worth paying attention to.
For our money, it's tough beating the Dell UltraSharp 32 4K. It's a big 4K monitor with a ton of features, but it isn't the right pick for everyone. Read on to see what other monitors we recommend for gaming, home use, esports, and more.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
