Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Lenovo laptops for 2023: ThinkPad, Yoga, and more By Jon Martindale and Mark Coppock Close Picking the best Lenovo laptop is difficult because whichever one you choose won't be perfect for everyone. With brands as unique and beloved as ThinkPad and Yoga, you've got a lot of choices on your hands. Do you go with the one that has the best internal hardware, the nicest display, or the greatest portability? What about the best bang for your buck? While it's always a good idea to check out our list of the best laptops you can buy in general, these are the best options that Lenovo has for sale.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Carbon Gen 10 Lenovo's all-around best laptop Solid build quality Dizzying array of display options Excellent keyboard Above-average battery life Good business support Touchpad is too small Expensive for the performance Why you should buy this: It offers the best combination of build quality, performance, and size.
Who's it for Anyone who wants a durable 14-inch laptop that gets the job done.
Why we chose the Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Carbon Gen 10: Lenovo continues to keep the Carbon line updated with the newest components, and this latest model is an excellent example of why. It's a powerful 14-inch laptop that can keep up with your busy life while still saving on space with its thin, focused design. It's incredibly well-built and maintains the ThinkPad black-on-black aesthetic through and through.
The current version of the ThinkPad X1 Carbon Gen 10 offers up to a 12-core CPU/16-thread Intel 12th-gen Core i7-1260, plus 8GB to 32GB of RAM and 256GB to 2TB of PCIe SSD storage. You can also upgrade the screen to a UHD+ model if you prefer better visuals. Wi-Fi 6E is supported, and this laptop includes the latest connections like Thunderbolt 4/USB-C ports for the best wired speeds you can get. Lenovo has recently updated the laptop to its 11th generation model, and we'll update this section once we've had a chance to check it out.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Lenovo Yoga 9i Gen 8 A sleek and comfortable convertible 2-in-1 Fast productivity performance Spectacular OLED display Solid build quality Good keyboard and touchpad Elegant good looks Battery life is below average Slightly expensive Why you should buy this: It offers a standout design in a comfortable convertible 2-in-1.
Who's it for: Anyone who wants a gorgeous 2-in-1 that feels good in the hand.
Why we chose the Lenovo Yoga 9i Gen 8: The Yoga 9i 14 Gen 8 is the flagship model in Lenovo's convertible 2-in-1 lineup. The Yoga 9i Gen 8 maintained the complete makeover it received in its seventh generation, with rounded chrome edges that not only look great but feel great in tablet mode. The build quality is excellent, and the laptop exudes an elegance that no other Lenovo laptop we've tested can match.
What we liked most about the Yoga 9i was its excellent productivity performance thanks to 13th-gen Intel Core CPUs. We tested with the Core i7-1360P and the laptop blew through our standard benchmarks. Up to 16GB of RAM and up to 1TB of SSD storage can be configured, and there are two excellent 14-inch 16:10 OLED display options, including an optional 4K UHD+ (3840 x 2400) display and a 2.8K (2880 x 1800) option running at 90Hz.
Multimedia is also a strength thanks to the Rotating Sound Bar that surrounds the hinge and provides rich audio in every mode – clamshell, tent, media, or tablet. Our only complaint here was some distortion at maximum volume, but turning it down just a bit alleviated that concern.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Lenovo Slim 9i A powerful laptop with an outstanding buiild Class-leading productivity performance Exceptional build quality Gorgeous aesthetic Spectacular 4K+ OLED display Excellent audio quality Keyboard is too shallow Limited connectivity Why you should buy this: It offers a gorgeous display and plenty of power with a truly premium build.
Who's it for: Anybody who wants a powerful laptop that exudes quality.
Why we chose the Lenovo Slim 9i: It's not an inexpensive laptop, but the Lenovo Slim 9i has a build quality and performance that makes it worth the investment. Its glass covering adds a dash of elegance to go with an attractive rounded chassis that feels incredibly solid.
It's powered by Intel's 12th-gen CPUs, up to the very fast Core i7-1280P, and it's one of the fastest 28-watt 12th-gen laptops we've tested. It can be equipped with up to 32GB of RAM for power users who need to multitask.
Even better is its 14.0-inch 16:10 4K+ OLED display that's incredibly sharp and offers wide and accurate colors and incredibly inky blacks thanks to deep contrast. It's great for creative work and for consuming HDR media due to Dolby Vision HDR support. The keyboard and touchpad are excellent, and its 1080p webcam is fully up-to-date. It's a laptop that competes with the best 14-inch clamshell machines and beats most of them.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Lenovo ThinkPad Z13 Taking the iconic ThinkPad in a new direction Excellent battery life Performance is impressive Small footprint Webcam is solid Unique design Touchpad feels off Why you should buy this: It takes the ThinkPad in some new and innovative directions.
Who's it for: Anybody who wants a ThinkPad but also wants something different.
Why we chose the Lenovo ThinkPad Z13: The ThinkPad Z13 bears the line's iconic name but not its iconic look and feel. That's not necessarily a bad thing unless you just like the ThinkPad's usual black-on-black aesthetic. With the ThinkPad Z13, you're getting a more modern design with an optional faux-leather lid cover that's warm and comfortable to hold. The red TrackPoint nubbin remains in the center of the excellent, snappy keyboard, and a new haptic touchpad works well and better than mechanical versions.
Inside is AMD, with the Ryzen 7 PRO 6860Z at the high end, along with up to 32GB of RAM and a 1TB SSD. The Ryzen chips provide excellent productivity performance and handle CPU-intensive tasks with ease, making the ThinkPad Z13 a solid choice for most 13-inch laptop users. Display choices include a 2.8K OLED or Full HD+ IPS panels, and connectivity is up to date. It may not look like a ThinkPad, but it's certainly built like one.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Lenovo ThinkPad Z16 A modern productivity-oriented 16-inch laptop Solid and attractive build Excellent performance Long battery life Outstanding keyboard and touchpad ThinkPad-level security Expensive Limited port selection Why you should buy this: It's an attractive 16-inch with strong performance and a solid thin and light build.
Who's it for: Anyone who wants a larger laptop with good performance.
Why we chose the Lenovo ThinkPad Z16: Like the smaller ThinkPad Z13, the ThinkPad Z16 takes the line in a completely new direction aesthetically. Yes, there's the red TrackPoint nubbin, but otherwise, the dark silver, all-aluminum chassis has its own look and feel. The keyboard is a more shallow version with a lighter touch that's still snappy and precise. The haptic touchpad is large and works well — not quite as good as Apple's Force Touch version, but still excellent. Lenovo also used a good amount of sustainable materials in the ThinkPad Z16, if that's important to you.
Inside is AMD again, up to the Ryzen 9 PRO 6950H. These are all 8-core/16-thread processors with excellent performance in CPU-intensive tasks. The discrete AMD Radeon RX 6500M GPU is available to help with demanding creative applications. Display options ramp up to a UHD+ OLED panel that provides spectacular colors and contrast.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Lenovo Yoga Book 9i The best multitasker's Lenovo you can buy Dual-display flexibility is actually useful Two superior OLED displays Origami stand works well Great external keyboard Solid and attractive build Outstanding pen support A few glitches A lot of components to carry around Battery life could be better Why you should buy this: It has dual OLED displays that are excellent for multitasking.
Who's it for: Anyone who needs to run multiple windows at a time.
Why we chose the Lenovo ThinkBook Yoga Book 9i: The ThinkBook Yoga Book 9i is the latest iteration of Lenovo's dual-screen laptop. This time, two 13.3-inch 2.8K OLED displays and an origami stand provide a variety of different form factors. You can run as a traditional clamshell with a keyboard that sits over half of the second dsiplay with a virtual touchpad. Or, use both displays in a clamshell format with a virtual keyboard that works surprisingly well. Use the stand and you can either stack the two displays or run them side-by-side for a great multitasking experience.
Performance is good enough thanks to an Intel Core i7-1355U CPU, although the integrated Intel Iris Xe graphics limit gaming and creative work. And battery life is surprisingly good. But the real key to the laptop are the dual displays that combine to provide a ton of screen real estate for getting work done. It's an unusual layout but surprisingly useful.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Lenovo Legion 9i An excellent gaming laptop with creative chops Desktop replacement levels of performance Support for both USB-C and GaN charging Gorgeous mini-LED display Surprisingly portable Excellent keyboard Poor battery life Trackpad is too small Why you should buy this: It's a gaming laptop with desktop performance.
Who's it for: Any gamer who's also a creator.
Why we chose the Lenovo Legion 9i: The Legion Pro 7i provides excellent gaming performance thanks to a fast 55-watt Intel 13th-gen Core i9-13980HX CPU with 24 cores and 32 threads, up to an Nvidia GeForce RTX 4080 CPU, and a 3200 x 2000 Mini-LED display at 165Hz. That ensures tear-free gaming as well as a smooth Windows 11 experience. The Legion Pro 7i also sports an attractive aesthetic in a build that's surprisingly portable.
The display has incredible brightness, wide colors, and inky blacks. The only thing holding back from being the ultimate creators workstation is its color accuracy that's on the low side. Even so, its performance in creative applications like Adobe's Premiere Pro is among the fastest we've tested in a laptop. Creators might want to do their most accurate color work on a different monitor, but the laptop is more than capable of churning through their demanding creative workflows. The keyboard and touchpad are also good and work as well for gaming as productivity work.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Best Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals: Chromebooks, gaming laptops, and more Black Friday laptop deal drops this Lenovo Chromebook to $149 Acer Black Friday sale: Gaming laptops, monitors and more The best budget laptops for 2023 Best Products Laptops Lenovo Computing With Black Friday often come some of the best laptop deals of the year, and that’s certainly the case at Lenovo right now. The workstation-class ThinkPad P16 laptop is marked down a massive $5,470 today, bringing its price down from nearly $10,000 to a much more reasonable Black Friday price of $4,469. This laptop is absolutely loaded with specs, surpassing most of the best laptops and even many of the best desktop computers. Free shipping is included with this deal, which isn’t likely to last long, so click over to Lenovo now to save while you can.
Why you should buy the Lenovo ThinkPad P16 mobile workstation Lenovo has been making quality computers for decades and currently finds itself considered among the best laptop brands. Its ThinkPad lineup is one of its most versatile, offering laptops at a range of price points for different needs. The ThinkPad P16 mobile workstation is going to sit on the upper end of those needs, as it’s packed with specs. It has an Intel i9 processor and a whopping 128GB of RAM, as well as 4TB of internal solid state storage capacity. These are the kind of specs you should be looking for if you’re trying to fit into the workflows of architectures, visual effects, and other professional-level environments that aim to push everyday laptops beyond their limits.
Computing To earn the crown as the best laptop in 2023, it needs to have it all: gorgeous design, killer performance, a productive keyboard, long-lasting battery life, and much more.
Each of the laptops below has been vetted thoroughly by us here at Digital Trends. Whether it's an affordable Chromebook or a top-of-the-line gaming laptop, they've all been subjected to real-world testing, as well as benchmark and battery tests, to collect data to objectively pit them against each other.
Mobile The tablet market features a lot of great options, but Apple’s iPad lineup remains one of the most popular. It regularly places iPads amongst the best tablets and has many different models and sizes to suit many different needs. Apple has recently introduced a new line of processors, and with new tech often comes some great discounts on current tech. There are several Apple iPad deals taking place right now, and we’ve tracked them all down. From entry level iPads to the largest iPad Pro on the market, these are the best iPad deals available.
Apple iPad (2021) — $249, was $329 If you’re in search of a new iPad but want to avoid the price points of Apple’s high end options, the Apple iPad (2021) makes great bang for the buck. It’s a very capable iPad, as it has all-day battery life, the Apple A13 Bionic chip, and an immersive 10.2-inch Retina display. All of this makes the iPad a great device for creating with, for interacting with the digital world with, and for sitting down with for an evening of movie watching. This Wi-Fi-only model comes in Space Gray with 64GB of internal storage, which is typically plenty for most tablet users’ needs. This is not the newest design of the iPad, which means it still has a home button with Touch ID as part of its design.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
