Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best OLED laptops for 2023 By Jon Martindale Close Organic LED (OLED) screens deliver outstanding image quality, brightness, and contrast by using organic compounds to emit visible light. These displays are light and thin and allow for extremely wide and accurate colors, incredible brightness, and the highest contrast ratios available. OLED technology has been around for a few years and has rapidly taken over the TV market.
You can find these screens on laptops, too, making for an interesting choice if you want stunning visuals on the go. Here, we selected some of the best OLED laptops with outstanding displays now on the market. The Dell XPS 13 Plus tops the list because of its display of bright, bold colors, but it's not the only great option. If display quality is indeed important, one of these laptops should be ideal.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Dell XPS 13 Plus (OLED) The best OLED laptop Streamlined design Tiny bezels all around 16:10 display adds to productivity Keyboard and touchpad are larger and excellent Solid productivity performance Connectivity is limited Battery life has been downgraded Why you should buy this : It's the best laptop you can buy, and the OLED display just makes it even better.
Who's it for : Anyone who's looking for a premium mainstream laptop and wants the absolute best.
Why we picked the Dell XPS 13 Plus : The Dell XPS 13 is the best OLED laptop you can buy. It's incredibly well built, with quality materials like aluminum in the lid and bottom chassis, plus new design features to improve airflow and reduce noise. Its transition to a 16:10 display made it even more productivity-friendly, and the tiny bezels mean it's still one of the most portable 13-inch laptops around. Toss in 12th-gen Intel Core processors from the i5 to the i7, up to 32GB of RAM, and up to 2TB of PCIe solid-state drive (SSD) storage and you have a recipe for greatness.
Recently, Dell added a 3.5K (3456 x 2160) OLED display option that's not only incredibly sharp but promises wide and accurate colors and incredible contrast. That makes for a dynamic display with inky blacks, perfect for both productivity and creative users. You can get IPS displays as well, but given that the 4K IPS display is priced the same as the OLED option, why would you? You'll also get solid battery life and a great keyboard and touchpad, as well as Thunderbolt 4/USB-C support. The Dell XPS 13 Plus is an incredible laptop, and the OLED display just makes it that much better.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Dell XPS 15 OLED The best 15-inch OLED laptop Superior build quality Beautiful aesthetic Excellent creative and productivity performance Good keyboard and awesome touchpad Gorgeous OLED display Expensive Why you should buy this : The XPS 15 is already an awesome laptop, but the OLED display takes it to a whole new level.
Who's it for : Video editors, photographers, and content creators.
Why we picked the Dell XPS 15 : The Dell XPS 15 has been our favorite 15-inch laptop for quite some time, and it might be our favorite laptop of all if it wasn't eclipsed by its slightly more portable and attractive cousin, the XPS 13. The latest version of this laptop upgrades everything, 16:10 screen included. You have options now for up to an Intel 14-core, 12h-generation Core-i9, up to 32GB of memory, and up to 2TB of PCIe NVMe solid-state storage. There's also an optional Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 Ti graphics chip for impressive midrange gaming capabilities.
But the screen is why we're here. The 3.5K OLED panel is simply stunning. Made by Samsung, it's a gorgeous display with fantastic contrast and bright, popping colors. Most importantly, the Dell XPS 15 features excellent color accuracy, which some of the other options on this list lack. That makes it a great option for photographers and video editors.
The 3.5K OLED screen is no more expensive than the LED 4K option offered by Dell. However, the battery life on the Dell XPS 15 may be worse with the OLED option.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Asus VivoBook 13 Slate OLED Best 2-in-1 OLED laptop Multiple USB-C ports 256GB of PCIe 3.0 SSD storage Detachable keyboard for extra portability Not as powerful as some other Asus OLED picks Why you should buy this : It's an extra-portable 2-in-1 with some of the latest features.
Who’s it for : Professionals and students who work a lot on their feet and need a laptop that can keep up.
Why we picked the Asus VivoBook 13 Slate OLED : The rise of OLED 2-in-1s makes it easier than ever to find an OLED laptop that you can also use as a particularly vivid tablet. This VivoBook is one of our favorites, a 13-inch touchscreen 2-in-1 that houses a quad-core Pentium N6000 CPU. That gives it enough performance for basic tasks, and at this price, it's an affordable way to get a functional, highly portable laptop for a relatively low cost.
This VivoBook also includes 8GB of RAM, and despite its slender design, it houses 256GB of PCIe 3.0 SSD storage. Ports include two USB-C ports with Powder Deliver and DisplayPort support, as well as a microSD card reader. The included keyboard is detachable, so you can keep the laptop as a permanent tablet if you want and only attach the keyboard for more complex tasks. That makes this laptop one of the best portable OLED options we’ve found.
MSI MSI Raider GE67 HX The best gaming OLED laptop Excellent gaming performance Stunning UHD OLED display 12th-gen Intel chip GeForce RTX 30 graphics May be too expensive for some Doesn't show as well in bright areas Why you should buy this : A powerful gaming laptop that pushes graphics to beautiful levels.
Who’s it for : Gamers who want to enjoy every shade and detail on their laptops Why we picked the MSI Raider GE67 HX : MSI makes a mean gaming machine, and this latest Raider model has embraced OLED to improve the 16-inch display even more, perfect for gamers who don’t want to sacrifice contrast and nuanced color when they’re gaming on the move.
The laptop also includes a cutting-edge 12th-gen Intel core i7 processor (including 16 cores), 1TB of speed SSD storage, and the Nvidia GeForce RTX 3070 Ti GPU with 8GB of VRAM. Gamers aren’t giving up much here at all compared to even advanced gaming stations, and that includes a refresh rate that can go up to 240Hz, and 16GB of DDR5 RAM.
Connections on this laptop include USB-C/Thunderbolt 4, as well as HDMI 2.1. Not all gamers may need this much in their gaming laptop, but those who like to push visuals to the edge will love it. Just be careful of glare and gaming in sunnier areas – OLED doesn’t always do as well in these conditions as other screens.
Mark Coppock / Digital Trends Lenovo IdeaPad Duet 5 The best OLED Chromebook Acceptable productivity performance Very long battery life Excellent display Solid build quality Affordable Display is in the old-school 16:9 aspect ratio Limited to Wi-Fi 5 Kickstand add-on is inconvenient Why you should buy this : It's an affordable Chromebook with an OLED screen.
Who’s it for : Those who love Chrome OS and want a budget laptop, but also prefer a top-notch screen Why we picked the Lenovo IdeaPad Duet 5 : Chromebooks are typically known for their speedy startups, low prices, and reliance on cloud storage, but this Lenovo model adds something special: A 13-inch OLED touch display, so you can have all the benefits of a Chromebook (still including that extra-low price) while still getting the extra-vivid color and contrast of the OLED HD screen.
The IdeaPad Duet 5 comes with a Snapdragon SC7180 CPU, 4GB of RAM, and 64GB of storage. There are both rear- and front-facing cameras, and a laptop-grade keyboard that you can detach if you prefer tablet mode for more casual video-watching or other tasks. Battery life is rated up to 15 hours, giving you more than enough for a full day of work or play. It isn’t the most amazing collection of specs on our list, but Chromebooks shine with it comes to affordable budget builds, and adding OLED is a pretty big cherry on top for those who want to save.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Asus ZenBook Flip S OLED Best thin and light OLED 2-in-1 Thin and light chassis Excellent UHD OLED display Solid productivity performance Long battery life Good port selection Build quality slightly subpar Why you should buy this : This 2-in-1 comes with impressive power and storage for its size.
Who’s it for : Professionals who work a lot on their feet and need a laptop that can keep up.
Why we picked the Asus ZenBook Flip S OLED : The ZenBook Flip S manages to combine 2-in-1 portability and tablet functions with a truly excellent touchscreen display, both 4K and OLED for maximum visual or color detail when you need it the most. That makes this laptop a quick recommendation for artists, designers, and others who do a lot of their jobs on their feet or like to make quick sketches and edits in tablet mode as they work.
Internal specs also impress with this updated model, which includes a potent 11th-gen quad-core Intel i7-1165G7 processor and 16GB of RAM. The spacious 1TB PCIe NVMe SSD is useful for internal storage, while the battery handles all this and is still rated for up to 15 hours, enough for a good workday.
We also were pleased to see the flexible ZenBook Flip S comes with all the latest port options, including Thunderbolt 4/UBS-C, USB-A 3.2, and HDMI 2. Wi-Fi 6 and Bluetooth 5.0 are also supported. Oh, and you don’t need to worry about a stylus — the laptop comes with the Asus Pen and Windows Ink to help you get started.
More Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Asus ZenBook Pro Duo 15 Best OLED laptop for creators Useful dual-screen design Excellent build quality Beautiful OLED displays Strong performance in creative apps Keyboard action is comfortable Active pen is precise and responsive Awkward keyboard and touchpad Battery life is atrocious Expensive Why you should buy this : The secondary display on this laptop is great for multitasking, and the OLED display is used to great effect.
Who’s it for : Artists, designers, and multitaskers.
Why we picked the Asus ZenBook Pro Duo UX582 : It's hard to miss the large second screen on the base of the 15-inch Pro Duo, called ScreenPad Plus. Yes, it does take away some space for the compact keyboard, but it adds a second screen that you can drag apps into, essentially turning into a second display that you can use to multitask, refer back to information, or compare things like color and contrast. It's not quite Apple's iPad Sidecar technology, but it's still very designer-friendly and opens up plenty of new possibilities for this ZenBook.
In addition to the top-shelf UHD OLED display, the laptop offers a 10th-gen Intel Core i9-10980HK processor that pairs well with the discrete GeForce RTX 3070 GPU. It also includes 32GB of RAM and a 1TB PCIe NVMe SSD for your storage needs. The laptop is bundled with a detachable palm rest for longer sessions and an Asus stylus for the touchscreen, so you're ready to get to work right out of the box! While the Asus ZenBook Pro Duo UX582 may fill a niche need, it does it very well with a portable model that allows for more complex work that you couldn't have otherwise tackled on a laptop — and a display that's as good for design as it is for entertainment.
More Dell Dell Inspiron 16 OLED Best portable OLED laptop Durable, portable design 12-gen processor and 16GB of RAM delivers excellent performance Large 16-inch display GeForce MX550 GPU The display may be too large for those who want to save space with smaller packs or bags Why you should buy this : Dell's 2-in-1 combines great portability with surprising power.
Who’s it for : Anyone who wants a versatile 2-in-1 with all the benefits of OLED Why we picked the Dell Inspiron 16 OLED : This Inspiron 2-in-1 is made for portability, no matter how you like to use your laptop – without giving up many features to attain it. The durable 360 hinge is thinner than ever, supporting quick changes between laptop, tablet, stand, and tented modes whether you are working, watching the latest show, or casually scanning a website. That 16-inch OLED screen is big enough to handle pretty much any laptop task, all the more impressive considering the versatile design.
Dell packed plenty of power into this model, too. It uses a 12th-gen Intel Core i7 processor, has 16GB of RAM, and includes a 512GB SSD. There’s even a GeForce MX550 GPU, so gaming isn’t entirely out of the question. It’s rare to find a 2-in-1 that can do so much, plus an OLED display for awesome visuals on top of it.
Frequently Asked Questions OLED panels may be susceptible to burn-in if left on the same image for too long. Today's OLED panels are more resistant to the effect, but it can still be a danger. However, as long as you are in the habit of closing your laptop screen when you aren't using it, you shouldn't be at any risk.
They can. OLED isn't quite as bright as some alternative panel technologies, which may exacerbate glare problems. Look for laptops that include anti-glare coatings to help deal with this, especially if you use your laptop in brighter areas.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Best Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals: Chromebooks, gaming laptops, and more Best Buy Black Friday deals: 12 best offers you can shop now 11 Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals you can’t afford to miss today The best early Amazon Black Friday laptop deals available now Gaming Best Products Laptops Computing Even if your router is only four or five years old, it might be time for an upgrade, given the recent advances in router tech, such as Wi-Fi 6, which has become much more prominent. The same also applies to mesh routers, which have more advanced technology that can handle multiple connected devices, such as smart lights, home security systems, phones, and so forth. Of course, you don't have to pay a lot of money to grab yourself a new router, and there are even some great Black Friday deals you can take advantage of that will save you a little bit of extra cash. We've collected some of our favorite deals on routers below, but be sure to check back regularly as we update with newer and better deals.
Best Router Black Friday Deals Routers are a great option if you don't have a large home or need to cover a lot of square footage, and putting them near you means that you get much better speeds and lower latency when connecting through Wi-Fi. Of course, that may not always be an option, so it's important to know what sort of capacity and speeds routers can do. Most routers will have an "AX" followed by a set of numbers that dictates the maximum speed it can reach, and the rule of thumb is generally that this maximum speed only applies when you're really close to the router, so the further out you go, the less speed you'll get. It's not perfect, but generally more powerful routers that can hit higher speeds will be able to connect at higher speeds further away, although its always best to check the actual real-world performance of a router before taking the plunge.
Computing If you're planning to get a new gaming laptop or other gaming accessories, you should check out the Black Friday deals on Razer products. It's one of the most popular brands among gamers because of its high-performance and stylish devices, and for the shopping holiday, you can get them with huge discounts. You're going to have to hurry with your chosen purchases once you've decided what to buy though, because stocks for some of these bargains may already be running low. If you're not set on Razer, be sure to shop the rest of Black Friday laptop deals and Black Friday gaming laptop deals to compare prices.
Best Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals Computing Gamers who don't want this year's Black Friday deals to end without buying a powerful gaming laptop for much cheaper than usual should check out the offers that were launched by Razer. One of the most popular gaming brands, it doesn't disappoint with its high-performance and stylish machines. We've rounded up our top picks for Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals below, including our absolute favorite, so don't waste any more time -- find the model that you want and proceed with the purchase, while the discounts are still online. If gaming isn't your sole focus, you'll find other powerful laptops in our list of the best Black Friday laptop deals.
Best Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deal The top-of-the-line performance provided by the Razer Blade 15 actually makes it a steal at its discounted price, as it's the only machine that you'll need for the next few years if you're looking forward to some upcoming PC games. Inside the gaming laptop are the 12th-generation Intel Core i7 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3070 Ti graphics card, and 16GB of RAM, which are enough to run today's most popular titles at the highest settings. Its 15.6-inch screen with QHD resolution and a 240Hz refresh rate will give justice to all that power, and you'll be able to install several AAA games on its 1TB SSD that ships with Windows 11 Home. Originally $3,000, the Razer Blade 15 is down to $1,800 following a $1,200 discount from Razer for Black Friday.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
