Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Acer Chromebook Vero 514 Review Chromebook vs Laptop Screenshot on a Chromebook Reset a Chromebook Best Chromebooks Chromebook Problems Split Screen on a Chromebook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best touchscreen laptops for 2022 By Mark Coppock Close A good touchscreen laptop used to be a luxury, but now there are plenty of options. You don’t have to stick to one laptop brand or model, and you can find a touchscreen laptop at almost any price, though it can sometimes require paying a premium over non-touch-sensitive displays. The HP Spectre X360 13.5 epitomizes our picks because of its beautiful design and 2-in-1 feature that allows you to convert it to a tablet.
Whether you’re a student or a professional looking for a new touchscreen laptop, here are some of the best ones. You can also check out our list of the overall best laptops of 2022.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More Image used with permission by copyright holder HP Spectre x360 13.5 An elegant 2-in-1 touchscreen laptop Elegant aesthetic Excellent productivity performance Rock-solid build Superior keyboard and touchpad Stunning OLED display Surprisingly good battery life Creativity performance is lacking Slightly expensive Why you should buy this : You want a flexible laptop that performs great in all categories.
Who it's for : Professionals, perfectionists, and people who want a really good laptop.
Why we picked the HP Spectre x360 13.5 : The HP Spectre x360 13.5 has a redesigned chassis that smooths out the gem-cut aesthetic of the previous model and rounds out the edges. It's just as attractive, only a bit more elegant. It offers strong productivity performance, solid battery life, a superior keyboard, and the usual convertible 2-in-1 form factors. It feels great in hand and works as well as a clamshell as it does a tablet, if not better.
The productivity-friendly 3:2 OLED touchscreen itself is bright with dynamic and accurate colors, and its deep contrast makes for inky blacks. It's the perfect display for creators and media consumers, and productivity workers will love it as well. Facial recognition and a fingerprint reader provide WIndows 11 Hello support, and there are keys to shutter the 5MP webcam and turn off the mics.
The 2-in-1 also sports the newest 12th-generation Intel Core processors, including the Core i7-1255U for a compelling mix of performance and efficiency. The base model also starts with a Core i5, 8GB of RAM, a 512Gb PCIe NVMe solid-state drive. (SSD), and a WXUGA+ (1920 x 1280) IPS display. At the high end is the Core i7, 32GB of RAM, a 2TB SSD, and a 3000 x 2000 OLED panel. Ports include two USB-C ports with Thunderbolt 4 support, USB-A Gen 2 3.2 with fast charging, a 3.5mm audio jack, and a microSD card reader. The design is top-notch, too, with a bezel-less screen, a full-sized keyboard, and an upgraded fast-charge battery, while the weight clocks in at a very manageable 3.01 pounds.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends HP Elite Dragonfly Chromebook An advanced touchscreen Chromebook Outstanding Chrome OS performance Superior haptic touchpad Beautiful display Attractive aesthetic Google Enterprise support with vPro Excellent connectivity with Thunderbolt 4 Expensive Below-average battery life Why you should buy this : It's a versatile and powerful Chromebook that can do almost anything.
Who it's for : Anyone who wants a Chromebook that will last and provides the most modern features.
Why we picked the HP Elite Dragonfly Chromebook : Do even the best Chromebooks seem lacking in features to you? HP has the solution with its Elite Dragonfly Chromebook, the most advanced Chrome OS device you can buy.
The Elite Dragonfly Chromebook is equipped with 12th-gen Intel CPUs, including Intel's vPro models that work closely with Chrome OS Enterprise to provide a manageable and secure machine. Performance is top-notch with up to a whopping 32GB of RAM (a huge amount for Chrome OS) and 512GB of SSD storage. The 13.5-inch 3:2 display options include up to a QHD+ (2256 x 1504) IPS option, and there's an HP Sure View privacy screen for anyone with highly sensitive data.
The Elite Dragonfly Chromebook is built as well as any premium laptop today, and it features the world's first haptic touchpad on a Chromebook. There's a fingerprint reader for passwordless login and a digital pen for Chrome OS inking. Battery life is solid as well, making the Elite Dragonfly Chromebook a no-compromise Chrome OS laptop like no other.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Microsoft Surface Pro 8 A powerful detachable tablet touchscreen laptop Gorgeous, 120Hz screen Impressive performance Has two powerful Thunderbolt 4 ports SSD is easily accessible The Surface Slim Pen 2 is exceptional More expensive Still lacks mobile apps Why you should buy this : It's the best detachable tablet you can buy, hands down.
Who it's for : Mobile professionals and those who want a Windows 11 tablet.
Why we picked the Microsoft Surface Pro 8 : The Surface Pro line has always been a high-end option for excellent 2-in-1 models, and the Surface Pro 8 adds some long-awaited features to the line that make it even more ready for today’s business world. If you want the best Windows 11 tablet, this is your top option and our current favorite detachable tablet.
It comes with a larger 13-inch 2880 x 1920 IPS touchscreen running at 120Hz and several choices of processors, up to an 11th-gen Intel Core i7 chip for the latest performance. You can also choose up to 32GB of RAM (an increase from the Surface Pro 7) and up to 1TB of SSD storage — which means this slim tablet can become as powerful as you need.
There are also two USB-C ports with Thunderbolt 4, a first for the Surface Pro line, ports for Surface Connect and the Surface Type Cover, and a microSDXC card reader. While the battery is rated for 16 hours, our tests showed that the Surface Pro 8 couldn't quite meet that promise. The Surface Slim Pen 2 works incredibly well with the 120Hz display and offers haptic feedback to feel more like it's writing on a real sheet of paper.
More HP HP Pavilion x360 14 An attractive budget touchscreen laptop Affordable price Solid build quality Good productivity performance Display is only Full HD No Thunderbolt support Why you should buy this : A solid laptop that's more affordable than ever.
Who it's for : Those who need a touchscreen on a budget but don't want to sacrifice quality.
Why we picked the HP Pavilion x360 14 : HP's Pavilion series is a solid choice for anyone looking for a reliable, well-built, and fast-performing laptop on a budget. The latest Pavilion x360 2-in-1 is a compromise between a budget laptop and modern components that will last you years into the future.
While the 14-inch display — larger than many of our picks — is certainly a point in its favor, the tech inside has all been fully updated for the latest options. You get a 12th-gen Intel Core i5-1235U processor, 8GB of RAM, and a 256GB PCIe NVMe SSD for storage on the base model. You can upgrade to a Core i7-1255U, 16GB of RAM, and a 1TB SSD. The laptop is ready for Wi-Fi 6E and has the latest Bluetooth 5.2 standard as well, so wireless connections should not pose a problem.
Ports include a USB-C 3.2 Gen2 port, two USB-A 3.2 Gen 2 ports, a full-size HDMI 2.1 port, and a 3.5mm audio jack. All are well positioned, highlighting the strong, durable design of this HP laptop. There's not a ton of storage on this affordable 2-in-1, but the price is very hard to beat when you factor in the latest upgrades.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Microsoft Surface Go 3 An incredibly affordable 2-in-1 touchscreen laptop Excellent build quality Superior display for a budget machine Great Active Pen support Small and light Surprisingly good real-world performance Can get expensive Mediocre battery life Keyboard and touchpad are cramped Why you should buy this : This 2-in-1 is an easy, durable choice when you're always on the move.
Who it's for : Students and professionals who don't need to get a Surface Pro.
Why we picked the Microsoft Surface Go 3 : The Surface Go 3 improves on the affordable 2-in-1 in several ways, notably with a faster 10th-gen Core i3-10100Y CPU option that's a real upgrade from the 8th-gen CPU in the previous model. It sports the same larger 10.5-inch touchscreen that improved its screen resolution to HD and enhanced the battery life to 10 hours. At only 1.2 pounds, it’s the lightest option on our list, too, ideal for carrying around with you throughout the day — and one of the best laptops for college students.
You can choose up to 8GB of RAM and 128GB of SSD storage, but we like the lower specs that keep the price down. At the base level, it’s the most affordable Surface device Microsoft offers, and well within a wider range of budgets. Perfect for those who don't need or can't justify buying a Surface Pro. You will need to buy the optional Type Cover to give this 2-in-1 full laptop functionality, however.
We love that the Surface Go 3 comes equipped with a USB-C connection for the latest data connections, although there’s also a Surface Connect port and a microSDX card reader.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Dell XPS 13 Plus An innovative and sleek 13-inch touchscreen laptop Irresistibly fresh design Great OLED screen Helpful performance modes Excellent haptic touchpad Webcam has been improved Gets warm on the bottom No headphone jack Battery life less than average Why you should buy this : It's one of the best laptops around but with added touch capabilities.
Who it's for : Those who want the complete package.
Why we picked the Dell XPS 13 Plus : The XPS 13 Plus is a new version of the XPS 13 that packs in more power and a ton of innovation. There's a haptic touchpad that rivals Apple's version, along with an edge-to-edge keyboard that's modern and comfortable. The XPS 13 Plus enjoys an all-aluminum chassis that's different from the older XPS 13's mix of aluminum and carbon fiber but sleeker and more contemporary. The 3.5K OLED display is the best option and, of course, it's touch-enabled. A new "standard" XPS 13 is coming available soon that offers a complete redesign and 12th-gen Intel CPUs.
This XPS 13 Plus has also been updated with a 12th-gen Intel Core i5-1240P processor, 16GB of RAM, and a 512GB PCIe NVMe SSD. The model includes all the latest connection options, like Thunderbolt 4/USB-C ports, including Thunderbolt 4 ports that support DisplayPort connections. It also supports Wi-Fi 6E and Bluetooth 5.2, so you're well-covered for wireless connections as well. And while the ultra-slim laptop may be able to fit anywhere, there's still enough room to include security features like a fingerprint reader and infrared camera for Windows Hello.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Razer Book 13 (2021) Razer's best touchscreen laptop Perfect port selection Fantastic design and build quality Performance is impressive Lovely 16:10 display Limited configurations Battery life isn't great Why you should buy this : It's a compact powerhouse that can handle anything.
Who it's for : Razer fans looking for a touchscreen laptop and anyone interested in more powerful specs.
Why we picked the Razer Book 13 (2021) : In our review of the latest Razer Book 13, we wondered if it was "nearly the perfect laptop." Sure, the battery life could be better, but with an outlet at hand, that isn't much to worry about, and the rest of this full-featured laptop more than makes up for it.
While the name Razer is often synonymous with gaming, this laptop belongs to its more business side, with an 11th-gen Intel Core i7-1165G7 processor and Intel Iris Xe integrated graphics under the hood — it's also a bit small to play games on. However, buyers still get the familiar Razer benefits like the Chroma keyboard and vapor chamber cooling system. The model starts with a 256GB SSD, but you can upgrade it for more storage if you prefer, and it comes with 16GB of RAM.
The Razer Book 13 is also ready for connections with the latest ports, including two Thunderbolt 4/USB-C ports, microSD, and HDMI 2.0.
More Mark Coppock/Digital Trends HP Elite Dragonfly G3 A leading business touchscreen laptop Thin and light chassis Elegant aesthetic Excellent battery life Outstanding keyboard and touchpad Solid business features Superior videoconferencing with 5MP webcam Performance is below average Expensive Why you should buy this : It's the ideal traveling laptop without compromise.
Who it's for : Business travelers and others on the go.
Why we picked the HP Elite Dragonfly G3 : The Elite Dragonfly line is made for those who are on the move and want a lightweight laptop that can keep up. There are a variety of configurations for the Dragonfly, including options with an FHD touchscreen, durable construction to help resist accidental damage, and a brightness level of up to 400 nits. The base model also starts with the latest 12th-gen Intel Core i5-1235U processor, although you can easily upgrade to an i7 configuration if you want.
The Elite Dragonfly G3 also comes with up to 32GB of RAM and options for 256GB up to 1TB of SSD storage. The latest Thunderbolt 4/USB-C connections are also included, as well as DisplayPort 2.0 and USB-A for older connections. Travelers will especially appreciate the support for Wi-Fi 6E on this model. The third generation switches to a 3:2 aspect ration display with OLED and privacy screen options and adds in advanced videoconferencing features.
Frequently Asked Questions They can, but this question is trickier than it seems. All sorts of laptop display settings can drain your battery, especially screen brightness.
Touchscreens use a simple capacitive layer on the display to detect your fingers, which uses hardly any electricity at all. However, as touchscreen laptops have grown more complex, there are more features "watching" for touch inputs, which can drain battery life over time. For a variety of reasons, touchscreen laptops tend to use their batteries faster than models without a touchscreen. Oh, and disabling the touchscreen won't make a difference. Most laptops simply set the screen to ignore all touches, accidental or otherwise, but the battery-draining features are still there.
The real reason touchscreen laptops tend to get worse battery life is because sometimes they are limited to higher resolution configurations, such as with the Dell XPS 13. A 4K screen is the primary battery-sucker here, not the touchscreen addition.
This is a very model-specific question! Some touchscreen laptops are horrible for drawing, while others are actually very good at it. Look for a 2-in-1 model that's stylus compatible with something like the Surface Pen (Microsoft's Surface models, Lenovo Yoga models, etc.). Then look carefully at reviews and see if people find that the laptop model is good for sketching and drawing. If the display isn't able to lay completely flat, it's probably not a good choice as a drawing surface.
Apple does have a touchscreen laptop, as long as you count the iPad Pro as one.
 Sure, it's technically a tablet, but there have been major developments to make it laptop-like, especially with the features of iPadOS.
We don't foresee Apple creating and developing touchscreen MacBooks any time in the near future. You might be wondering the reason for this, and this is because Apple’s designers just don’t like the idea.
 Nevertheless, Apple did launch a feature called Sidecar on MacOS Catalina.
 Sidecar works as a connective tool for your MacBook and iPad to enable screen-sharing. This efficiently supplies your MacBook with a convenient touch screen mode, with seamless usage using the Apple Pencil or simply your fingers. You can benefit from using Sidecar, especially when you’re drawing. Overall, it's always helpful to have a touchscreen to complete other tasks too.
When manufacturers refer to laptops as “2-in-1,” they mean that these laptops can transform into a tablet if needed. Because these laptops can work as a tablet, their displays are touchscreens. This classifies them as touchscreen laptops automatically. You often convert a 2-in-1 by folding the screen backward or removing the keyboard. A few examples of these types of laptops are the Lenovo Yoga, HP Spectre 360x, and Microsoft Surface Book.
They’re hard to find, but a few of the traditional clam-shell laptops possess touchscreens. Samples of conventional clam-shell laptops with touchscreens are the Surface Laptop 4 and some Dell XPS 13 versions.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today The best HP laptop Black Friday deals happening right now Best Black Friday laptop deals: Get a new workhorse from $129 Black Friday laptop deal drops this Lenovo Chromebook to $149 11 Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals you can’t afford to miss today Mobile Best Products Chromebooks Google Chrome Laptops Microsoft Microsoft Windows Windows 10 Computing Black Friday deals are a great place to check for a new laptop. Amazon has its fair share of them, on every kind of machine from gaming laptops to Chromebooks. We've picked out our favorites below and categorized them. All of these deals are available right now, even though Black Friday is still a ways away. Make sure to check back for new Black Friday laptop deals before the shopping holiday starts, including Black Friday gaming laptop deals if you want to play on the go.
Best Amazon Black Friday laptop deals If you're looking for a general-purpose laptop, this is the category for you. Amazon has discounted computers from some of our favorite brands, like HP and Acer. These laptops will vary in power and size. If you're looking for something with expensive components, check the gaming laptops below. If power isn't so important, but the price is, check out Chromebook deals under this or Black Friday HP laptop deals.
Computing Even if your router is only four or five years old, it might be time for an upgrade, given the recent advances in router tech, such as Wi-Fi 6, which has become much more prominent. The same also applies to mesh routers, which have more advanced technology that can handle multiple connected devices, such as smart lights, home security systems, phones, and so forth. Of course, you don't have to pay a lot of money to grab yourself a new router, and there are even some great Black Friday deals you can take advantage of that will save you a little bit of extra cash. We've collected some of our favorite deals on routers below, but be sure to check back regularly as we update with newer and better deals.
Best Router Black Friday Deals Routers are a great option if you don't have a large home or need to cover a lot of square footage, and putting them near you means that you get much better speeds and lower latency when connecting through Wi-Fi. Of course, that may not always be an option, so it's important to know what sort of capacity and speeds routers can do. Most routers will have an "AX" followed by a set of numbers that dictates the maximum speed it can reach, and the rule of thumb is generally that this maximum speed only applies when you're really close to the router, so the further out you go, the less speed you'll get. It's not perfect, but generally more powerful routers that can hit higher speeds will be able to connect at higher speeds further away, although its always best to check the actual real-world performance of a router before taking the plunge.
Computing If you're planning to get a new gaming laptop or other gaming accessories, you should check out the Black Friday deals on Razer products. It's one of the most popular brands among gamers because of its high-performance and stylish devices, and for the shopping holiday, you can get them with huge discounts. You're going to have to hurry with your chosen purchases once you've decided what to buy though, because stocks for some of these bargains may already be running low. If you're not set on Razer, be sure to shop the rest of Black Friday laptop deals and Black Friday gaming laptop deals to compare prices.
Best Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
