Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? These are the best ultrawide monitors you buy in 2023 By Jon Martindale and Kunal Khullar Close Sometimes you require more screen real estate, and a conventional 16:9 monitor just doesn't cut it. Whether you're a creative professional in need of an expansive curved display or a gamer seeking the ultimate immersive experience short of VR, there's likely an ultrawide monitor tailored to your needs.
But beware, once you've experienced an ultrawide, you'll be forever spoiled for conventional monitors. Even the crispest, most vivid 16:9 screen will pale in comparison. We've assembled the finest offerings on the ultrawide monitor market and rigorously assessed their suitability for games, movies, and even your workspace.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More More More Samsung Samsung ViewFinity CJ79 Best well-rounded ultrawide Excellent 34-inch design FreeSync support Great picture quality No USB-C ports Why you should buy this : An excellent example of how useful an ultrawide can be.
Who's it for : Anyone who wants an ultrawide for work or play.
Why we picked the Samsung ViewFinity S50GC : The Samsung CJ791 is a solid choice for most people looking for a reliable ultra-wide monitor. The design is understated, effortless, and professional. The frame and stand all seem to melt away when you're seated before its all-encompassing curved view. It's a bit of a chameleon, too, as it could easily sit next to a flashy desktop PC decked out in LEDs or a dusty old workstation in the office. It even works with VESA mounts, if you want to mount it to a wall.
Samsung's CJ791 offers stunning picture quality, with rich inky blacks and vivid, lifelike colors saturating your vision from all angles. Video content is rich and fluid, thanks to the monitor's 100Hz refresh rate and AMD's FreeSync.
 It supports a variety of uses, providing one DisplayPort, an HDMI port, two Thunderbolt 3 ports, and two USB-A ports.
Overall, this level of quality on a standard 16:9 display would be outstanding. The fact that it’s on a massive 21:9 display with a deep curve makes it truly a sight to behold. The Samsung CJ791 simply doesn’t need a flashy exterior design. Its size, clarity, and resolution make it a showstopper all on its own.
Image used with permission by copyright holder LG 34WK95U-W Best high-res ultrawide Attractive, minimalist design Convenient port location Easy-to-use menus Class-leading image quality My god, it’s full of pixels Far more expensive than competitors No enhanced refresh rate or adaptive sync Warranty should be longer Why you should buy this : It's an extra-high resolution ultrawide ready for the details.
Who's it for : Editors, photographers, and those using their ultrawide for high-end media.
Why we picked the LG 34WK95U-W : If you need an ultrawide panel without sacrificing a high resolution, this LG model offers both — that is, if you can afford it. A Nano IPS panel backs this display's hefty 5120 x 2160 resolution with HDR. It's also entirely flat, making it a wide choice when considering your work area's physical space (or lack thereof).
You won't need to worry about connections, however. There are plenty on LG's display, including a Thunderbolt 3 port, a USB-C port, two HDMI, a DisplayPort, a USB-A upstream, and two USB-A downstream connections.
The drawback is that wall-mounting isn't advisable, as this could leave the ports inaccessible. Wall-mounting may also make the hidden joystick difficult to use, which means you'll need to modify the settings. With this joystick, you can toggle picture modes, manually adjust color temperature, and change the hue and saturation.
Our tests show that , in addition to the high resolution, the LG 34WK95U-W supports 90% of the AdobeRGB color gamut. It also has a color error of only 1.1 and a gamma curve of 2.2 — all better than many of the top monitors we have reviewed. However, it's important to note that the standard refresh rate is 60Hz, which isn't the greatest option for some types of gaming. This display does not offer FreeSync or G-Sync technology.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Acer Predator Gaming X34 The best mid-range gaming ultrawide A solid gaming ultrawide without sky-high prices Can overclock to 180Hz G-Sync support Not the largest curved screen available Why you should buy this : Gamers searching for a mid-to-high-range curved monitor will find just what they're looking for.
Who's it for : Gamers who want a curved ultrawide dedicated to gaming.
Why we picked the Acer Predator Gaming X34 : This Predator monitor is an excellent mid-range option for a curved ultrawide designed for gaming, great for gamers that don't want to spend anything over $1,000 but still want a 34-inch monitor that can handle anything they want to throw at it. It comes with a QHD 3440 x 1440 resolution, G-Sync support, and up to a 180Hz refresh rate. Color is also a standout with 98% coverage of the DCI-P3 cinematic gamut.
Thanks to its IPS panel, Acer's display enjoys fantastic viewing angles for collaborative work and play. There's also DisplayHDR 400 support, and eight different gaming modes you can experiment with to find the right options. Ports include a wealth of options like DisplayPort 1.4, HDMI 2.0, USB-C, and USB-A 3.0.
Image used with permission by copyright holder BenQ Premium EW3880R Best ultrawide for creatives HDR and HDRi with ambient light sensor Great color accuracy Built-in speakers and subwoofer USB-C with PD Not all creatives will want a monitor this big Why you should buy this : It's an excellent professional monitor with great color specs.
Who's it for : Creatives, video editors, designers, etc.
Why we picked the BenQ Premium EW3880R : BenQ’s monitors typically perform very well in our color tests, and this extra-large 38-inch ultrawide won’t disappoint creative professionals who need lots of screen space. This model covers 95% of the DCI-P3 space, plus BenQ’s latest HDRi optimization, a proprietary form of HDR designed to improve images from all kinds of sources while tracking ambient light in the room. It also supports more traditional formats like HDR10, and that light sensor can automatically adjust brightness as well as color temperature for the best combined results.
This monitor is also ready for newer accessories including USB-C with PD as well as HDMI 2.0, DisplayPort 1.4, and USB 3.0. For those who do a lot of comparisons, the picture-by-picture and similar modes will also be of great help. Oh, and if you want to show off a particular clip with sound, the built-in 3W speakers and 8W subwoofer will help you save on speaker space; you'll need a lot of it for a monitor this size.
More Samsung Samsung Odyssey Neo G95NA The best extra-large ultrawide Enormous 49-inch screen G-Sync and FreeSync support 240Hz refresh rate Too big for many desks Expensive Why you should buy this : It's one of the biggest consumer ultrawides you can get.
Who's it for : Buyers who have a whole lot of space and big ultrawide plans.
Why we picked the Samsung Odyssey Neo G95NA : If you prefer a lot of "ultra" in your ultrawide, Samsung's impressive Odyssey model offers an immense 49 inches of screen real estate, enough for anyone's plans. It's a monitor made for niche setups that have plenty of desk space and need a particularly huge display, such as a full racing station setup or some seriously in-depth video editing, etc.
The monitor also has up-to-date specs, including a UHD resolution Mini-LED panel for improved backlighting and extensive peak brightness, up to a 240Hz refresh rate, and a 1ms response time, making it suitable for any demanding task or game you have in mind. It's also one of the only monitors on our list to support both G-Sync and FreeSync, so you don't have to worry about what graphics card you have. However, you may have to worry about your wallet, because this giant monitor doesn't come cheap.
More LG LG UltraGear 34GP63A-B Best budget ultrawide gaming monitor Fast refresh rate and response times Value for money sRGB and Adobe RGB coverage VRR support Limited to height and tilt adjustments Poor HDR performance Why you should buy this : An excellent ultrawide monitor for gamers at the asking price.
Who's it for : Those who want a reliable ultrawide gaming monitor at an affordable price.
Why we picked the LG UltraGear 34GP63A-B : The LG 34GP83A-B stands out as a well-rounded ultrawide gaming monitor. Currently selling for close to $350, its generously sized curved display offers a good level of immersion during gaming and provides ample screen space for productivity tasks. It boasts a rapid response time and minimal input lag, plus the option to overclock its 144Hz refresh rate to an impressive 160Hz, resulting in smoother and more responsive gameplay.
The monitor's viewing angles are generally good, making it suitable for sharing content casually or engaging in cooperative gaming. However, it's worth noting that there is some loss of image accuracy when viewing from extreme side angles, which may not be ideal for tasks requiring precision.
While the monitor's brightness is adequate to combat glare effectively, it falls short of delivering a true HDR experience despite having support for HDR10. It also exhibits a low contrast ratio, causing dark colors to appear somewhat gray in dimly lit environments. Conversely, content creators will find the LG 34GP83A-B appealing due to its full sRGB coverage, excellent Adobe RGB representation, impeccable gradient handling, and the absence of color bleeding. Apart from standard HDMI and DisplayPort, the monitor also comes with a 3.5mm headphone out and built-in 7-watt stereo speakers.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Alienware AW3423DW Best ultrawide for visuals QD-OLED panel technology 175Hz refresh rate VESA Display HDR True Black 400 UHD resolution G-Sync Ultimate An expensive pick Why you should buy this : A top-notch monitor with excellent visual specs.
Who's it for : Users interested in optimization for a variety of media.
Why we picked the Alienware AW3423DW : This Alienware monitor claims to be the first consumer QD-OLED model, and it's certainly the best place to go for incredibly vivid color and contrast. The 34-inch display offers a UHD 3440 x 1400 resolution, 175Hz refresh rate, and compatibility with G-Sync Ultimate, making it suitable for all kinds of entertainment options. It also covers 99.3% of the DCI-P3 color gamut, respectable numbers for those who want a cinematic movie experience on their ultrawide.
The model also supports VESA Display HDR True Black 400 for enhanced visuals (helped by a 1000-nit peak brightness), and sports an impressive 0.1ms response time. Ports include HDMI 2.0, DisplayPort 1.4, and USB 5-compatible USB ports.
While expensive, this Alienware pick is on the cutting edge of panel technology, and one of the current best picks if you're willing to spend money for your visuals.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends LG 48GQ900-B UltraGear Best ultrawide to double as a TV Fantastic OLED quality Useful desktop remote FreeSync and G-Sync support Bright, vibrant bias lighting Doesn't support dynamic HDR metadata Pixel density can be a problem Why you should buy this : It can serve as a TV or gaming monitor equally well.
Who's it for : Buyers who want a monitor that can function as a TV, or vice-versa.
Why we picked the LG 48GQ900-B UltraGear : Many ultrawides excel at wrap-around immersion, but far fewer can easily double as TVs: This 48-inch, 16:9 aspect ratio LG UltraGear is the best option if you want an outsized monitor that’s also a perfect fit for sports, console gaming, movie nights, and similar situations. It even comes with a gaming remote control to complete the TV experience.
The specs will also impress PC gamers. Along with the beautiful 4K OLED panel, it has an anti-glare coating, a 120Hz refresh rate, and compatibility with both G-Sync and FreeSync technology. It also supports HDR10, and thanks to that OLED display it can cover 99% of the DCI-P3 color space, so your movies are sure to look stunning.
Ports include HDMI 2.1 with VRR to improve stability, as well as DisplayPort, plus an updated headphone connection. There’s also a built-in 20W speaker, although for a great TV experience you’ll probably want to add some external speakers to the mix.
Corsair Corsair Xeneon Flex 45WQHD240 Premium bendable ultrawide monitor Flexible OLED panel Fast response time with 240Hz refresh rate Excellent contrast Robust I/O ports Not the best pixel density Higher input lag at low refresh rates Not the most ergonomical Why you should buy this : It's a premium ultrawide OLED monitor offering excellent picture quality and superfast response time.
Who's it for : Anyone who wants to a high-end ultrawide monitor in either a curved or flat design.
Why we picked the Corsair Xeneon Flex 45WQHD240 : Corsair recently entered the monitor space, and its flagship, the Xeneon Flex 45WQHD240, is truly one of a kind thanks to its flexible OLED screen. The monitor offers a unique aspect as it can be bent, essentially giving you the option to use it as a standard flat panel or to take advantage of the two handles on the sides to transform it into a curved monitor with an 800R curve.
The 45-inch display offers a 21:9 aspect ratio and a resolution of 3440 x 1440, which, while not the highest, results in a slightly lower pixel density compared to other OLED 4K monitors. The Xeneon Flex 45WQHD240 has an LG OLED panel with a high 240Hz refresh rate and minimal input lag, although the latter may increase at lower refresh rates.
The panel is compatible with FreeSync VRR and G-SYNC, and it also features HDMI 2.1 support. Users can expect vibrant colors, deep blacks with minimal blooming around bright objects, and a range of additional features, including a KVM switch, Picture-in-Picture/Picture-by-Picture modes, and a comprehensive selection of I/O ports.
More Frequently Asked Questions Ultrawide displays are an alternative to multiple-monitor setups. They eliminate the ugly bezel dividing two or more displays, creating a cleaner, unified experience.
With multiple monitors, you can mix and match capabilities. For instance, you can have one for gaming and one for work. In both cases, the setup makes getting everything you need easier.
With an ultrawide, everything must reside in one display, or you need to make some sacrifices. That’s especially impactful in gaming, where an ultrawide’s large resolution can tax even high-end graphics cards.
You should also factor in the physical footprint of large ultrawide displays. They can be huge, so make sure your desk and room have enough space to accommodate the size.
Also consider media playback, such as TV and movies. On an ultrawide, you may have to tolerate black bars running along the screen’s edges, as few productions shoot media that’s compatible with ultrawide aspect ratios.
It can be. Although not all ultrawide displays are designed with gaming in mind, the ones that are can offer some of the most immersive gaming experiences outside of virtual reality. Curved, large-screen, ultrawide monitors can wrap around your peripheral vision in a way that’s far more encompassing than traditionally-sized monitors.
Just be aware that not all games support ultrawide resolutions, and those extra pixels can tax your graphics card a bit more than normal.
There’s no right answer to this question. No single monitor size is “one size fits all.” It’s a subjective decision that varies from one person, and work area, to the next. To decide what will be best for you and your personal situation, you’ll need to consider your particular application, in addition to the space you have to use. If you’re wondering, the largest ultrawide monitors are 49-inch screens, like Samsung’s CHG90 or Dell’s 49-inch Ultrasharp display.
We’re already aware that monitors less than 49 inches usually have better pixel density, an important factor that influences your total picture clarity. While it can be fun to daydream about having a huge screen, in reality, it’s not really necessary to have the biggest screen on the market to get the full effect of movies or games. You simply need the right proportions.
The 34-inch options with a 21:9 aspect ratio are a good starting place. You’ll enjoy the full ultrawide experience and it won’t be so whopping huge that you no longer have any desk space left to work.
You can with the right connections. We have a guide here on how to set up multiple monitors for gaming.
 If you have enough room, you can set two ultrawides side by side or mount one on top of the other (please check weight limits on any mounts you use).
One of the more common issues with setting up multiple monitors is is issues with different aspect ratios and resizing issues. Those problems can be worsened by the large size of ultrawides: You can consult our guide to multi-monitor problems for ideas about how to fix these issues.
With the right connections, such as USB-C for newer Mac models, compatibility won't create many problems. However, if you want the smoothest experience, we recommend a pick like our LG 34WK95U-W or BenQ Premium EW3880R. These brands have a good reputation for working well with MacOS.
Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy 11 Best Buy Black Friday laptop deals you can’t afford to miss today Best portable monitor Black Friday deals from $100 This Samsung 34-inch WQHD ultrawide gaming monitor is $600 off 10 best laptops of 2023: tested and reviewed Gaming Best Products Computing You don't have to spend several hundreds of dollars if you want to upgrade your desktop computer's screen to a 4K display because there are monitor deals like the 27-inch LG27UP600 4K monitor, which you can currently get from Best Buy for just $230. We don't expect the $120 in savings on its sticker price of $350 to last long though, so if you're interested in this bargain, you shouldn't be wasting any more time. Add the display to your cart and check out as soon as possible, because you may miss out if you delay your purchase.
Why you should buy the 27-inch LG27UP600 4K monitor The prices of 4K monitors have come down substantially in the past few years, according to our computer monitor buying guide, and the LG27UP600 4K monitor is the perfect example of this trend. For a relatively affordable cost, you'll be able to enjoy 4K Ultra HD resolution on a 27-inch screen, for sharp details and lifelike colors on the projects that you're working on and the streaming shows that you're watching. The monitor also offers on-screen controls for a variety of functions, including splitting the display for side-by-side workspaces and adjusting basic settings.
Computing If your monitor can no longer keep up with the purchases that you've made from desktop computer deals, then it's time for an upgrade with the 34-inch LG 34WQ500-B UltraWide monitor. It's already giving great value at its sticker price of $330, so it's a must-buy display at its discounted price of $250 from Best Buy. We're not sure how much time is remaining for you to take advantage of the $80 in savings, so if you don't want to miss out, you've got no choice but to proceed with the purchase immediately.
Why you should buy the 34-inch LG 34WQ500-B UltraWide monitor LG is a brand that's always present in our roundup of the best monitors, so you should trust the quality of the LG 34WQ500-B UltraWide monitor. The 34-inch screen offers 2,560 x 1,080 resolution, which is one of the popular specifications for an UltraWide display that's described by our computer monitor buying guide as one that gives your a broader view of content. This will come in handy when you're dealing with lots of windows on your screen or if you need to compare several sets of data, among many other applications, though it's also just a great way of watching streaming shows.
Computing If you're on the hunt for gaming laptop deals, here's one that comes with our recommendation -- the Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 for just $1,100 from Best Buy, for savings of $330 on its original price of $1,430. We expect this bargain to sell quickly because this is one of the top gaming laptops in the market right now, so if you're interested, there's no time to waste. Proceed with the purchase right now, because the more you delay, the higher the chances that you'll miss out on this discount.
Why you should buy the Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 gaming laptop The Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 is in our roundup of the best gaming laptops as the best portable gaming laptop that you can buy. It features a 14-inch screen that's slightly smaller than the display of most of its peers, but it more than makes up for the size with QHD resolution and a 165Hz refresh rate. This also allows the device to stay small, with thickness of just 0.73 of an inch and weight of only 3.64 pounds. If you want your gaming laptop with you at all times so you can squeeze in some gaming whenever the situation allows, the Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 will be perfect for you.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
