Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides How much RAM do you need? By Jon Martindale and Jacob Roach Close Random access memory , usually shortened to RAM or simply “memory,” is one of the most important parts of any computing device. Modern PCs, tablets, and phones typically have from 2GB up to 32GB, though some have even more. But how much RAM do you need, exactly? How much RAM do you need? RAM explained How much RAM for tablets? How much RAM for laptops? How much RAM do you need for gaming? RAM speed vs. capacity Upgrading your RAM can be easy and inexpensive Adding more RAM to your computer won’t make it run faster if you already have enough, though, and wastes money you could spend elsewhere on upgrading your PC. Games that require 16GB of RAM won’t necessarily run faster if you have 32GB — although making sure background tasks have enough memory is a good way to improve performance in demanding applications.
In this guide, we’ll walk you through how much RAM you need for a tablet, laptop, desktop, and gaming machine. If you want to know how much RAM you need for a smartphone , we have a guide for that, too.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends How much RAM do you need? For most PC and laptop owners, 16GB of RAM is a good figure to target. It gives you plenty of memory for most modern games, enough to run plenty of web browsing tabs at the same time, and you can even run demanding apps like video editing suites. You might want more, you might get away with less, but if you’re unsure how much RAM you need, 16GB is a good figure to target.
What is a thermal printer, how they work, and do you need one? Thunderbolt 4: everything you need to know How much GPU memory do I need? For a more nuanced look at how much RAM you need, here are some of the most common quantities of RAM, and who might be best suited to that quantity.
4GB: Low-end Chromebooks and some tablets come with 4GB of RAM, but it’s only worth considering if you’re on an extreme budget.
8GB : Typically installed in entry-level laptops. This is fine for basic Windows gaming at lower settings, but rapidly runs out of steam.
16GB : Excellent for Windows and MacOS systems and also good for gaming, especially if it is fast RAM, though some games still need more.
32GB : This is the sweet spot for professionals and high-end gamers. It’s enough to play any game, but pricing is still affordable.
48GB : Using non-binary memory kits can save you some money if 32GB of RAM just won’t do, and 64GB is unneeded.
64GB and more : For enthusiasts and purpose-built workstations only. Engineers, professional A/V editors, and similar types need to start here and go higher if needed.
Remember, buying more RAM than you need doesn’t net you any performance benefit — it’s effectively wasted money. Buy what you actually need, and spend the remaining budget on more important components like the CPU or graphics card.
RAM explained Image used with permission by copyright holder RAM is a small amount of extremely fast storage and augments the cache on your CPU to make sure it has fast access to as much information as possible — much faster than if it had to grab that data from your SSD or hard drive. As you open programs, it stores data that they need access to quickly in system memory. When you boot a game, many of its elements are loaded into memory so they’re readily accessible.
Different programs require different amounts of RAM, but regardless of the application, it’s likely to use at least a little bit of RAM. That adds up over time, and if you don’t have enough RAM to go around, the applications you’re using will severely slow down. You can still launch them, but if you run out of RAM, the application won’t have access to the ultra-fast storage RAM provides to quickly access the data it needs.
You can also have too much RAM. If, for example, you’re only using 12GB of RAM under the most demanding circumstances and you have a 16GB kit, upgrading to a 32GB kit (assuming all other aspects are equal) won’t impact your performance whatsoever. It’s effectively wasted money.
Because of that, it’s important to choose a capacity that slightly exceeds your needs without going overboard. You can buy more RAM, and it won’t negatively impact performance. But that’s a bit like buying a house with four bedrooms and only using two of them.
System RAM shouldn’t be confused with the dedicated memory used by discrete graphic cards.
 High-end 3D games rely on video RAM, or VRAM, to temporarily store image data, like textures. Most current-generation graphics cards use either GDDR6 or GDDR6X.
GDDR7 memory is coming down the pipe, though.
Meanwhile, system RAM is identified by its generation, with DDR4 and DDR5 being the most common in the latest generations of computers. DDR6 is in development but not readily available. RAM also has a speed rating, and a list of numbers known as its “timings,” which relate to its latency.
Although memory speed and timings are important if you want to speed up your computer , for most gamers and workers, simply making sure you have enough RAM is more important.
How much RAM for tablets? Image used with permission by copyright holder Tablets are not designed to deal with heavy-duty software tasks, so their RAM needs tend to be pretty low — similar to a lot of smartphones.
However, as multitab browsers and more complex software continue to make the transition, the latest generations of tablets come with much more RAM than their predecessors. Current spec options typically range from 2GB to 16GB of RAM, with other considerations like battery life and processor speed often being of greater consideration.
Our favorite tablets have between 8GB and 16GB, though there are budget models which have less. There are some models with 4GB of RAM, but if you aim for more, you’ll have a much more responsive tablet.
How much RAM for laptops? Image used with permission by copyright holder Most laptops come with 8GB of RAM, with top-tier machines packing 16GB — even up to 32GB for the most powerful gaming notebooks.
 As more games and applications demand more RAM, even mainstream laptops come with options for 16GB now, so configure your new laptop with more RAM if you think you’ll need it.
You’d only need to go past that if you perform certain tasks, like editing huge video or photo files or playing some of the most demanding games — though you should focus on CPU and GPU performance first if you need to maximize the return on your investment. Most people don’t use a laptop for such tasks, but if you do, buying enough RAM is crucial. It’s more difficult to upgrade RAM in a laptop (or, in some recent models, impossible) compared to a desktop, so buying what you need at the start is paramount.
For something like a Chromebook, which mostly relies on cloud-based apps and provides very little storage space, you won’t need much in the way of RAM and will be fine with 8GB of RAM when buying a Chromebook , especially since you can use the Google Play Store to download Android apps directly on your machine.
How much RAM do you need for gaming? Image used with permission by copyright holder For gaming PCs, 16GB of RAM is the best place to start, but it’s so cheap that anyone building a new gaming PC should consider 32GB instead. Although 8GB was enough for many years, new AAA PC games demand at least 16GB and some as much as 32GB — though those are very rare. Few games will actually take advantage of even close to 32GB of RAM, but many will saturate 16GB all by themselves, leaving little for background applications.
If you plan on streaming or running multiple applications while your games are running — OBS Studio, a web browser, etc. — 32GB will give you a little more room, and top-tier gamers might even want to go for 48GB with a non-binary memory kit.
RAM speed vs. capacity While you won’t see any performance improvement by adding more RAM to your system if you already have what you need, the same cannot be said when it comes to RAM speed. Right now, DDR4 is standard across most desktops, laptops, and tablets, although many new AMD and Intel PCs come with DDR5 memory instead. Each DDR generation has a range of speeds, with DDR4 starting with DDR4-1600 and ending with DDR4-3200, while DDR5 starts at DDR5-4000 and ends at DDR5-8000. The number at the end notes the memory’s speed. The benefit of faster memory is simple: More cycles per second means the module can read and write data faster.
For DDR4 memory, kits that run at 3,600MHz are considered some of the best, as they work natively with Intel and AMD CPUs and offer excellent performance. Going higher than that can offer some benefit, but it means tweaking the settings to get the most out of it — especially on AMD PCs. For DDR5, the fastest the memory the better, but as you get into the extremes the cost rises much faster than the performance.
Different applications react differently to faster memory, and there are even differences between Intel and AMD.
 However, if you bought faster RAM sticks or plan to buy them, you’ll want to enable the XMP/EXPO profile in your BIOS to get the most out of your purchase.
Upgrading your RAM can be easy and inexpensive RAM isn’t that expensive, and it’s the easiest component to upgrade in a desktop PC — laptops, too, in many cases. Buying a generous amount is wise, but don’t go crazy. There’s not much reason for a gamer to exceed 32GB for now, and no reason to exceed 16GB if all you want to do is watch Netflix.
If your system does eventually become restricted by RAM, you can just add more.
 This is a good idea even if you don’t feel comfortable upgrading yourself, as the charge for installing RAM at your local PC store should hover around $40 to $60.
Editors' Recommendations What is a 3D printer, and how much do they cost? What is a CPU? Here’s everything you need to know DDR5 vs. DDR4 RAM: Is DDR5 worth it? What is RAM? Here’s everything you need to know What is GDDR7? Everything you need to know about next-gen VRAM Gaming Computing Non-binary memory. It might not be set to give you the same performance uplift as a new graphics card, and it's not as intriguing as AMD's X3D CPUs, but it's still an interesting new wrinkle in how you build a PC. Non-binary memory effectively allows half steps in RAM quantities, so instead of only having options for sticks of 8GB, 16GB, 32GB (and so on), you can now buy a 24GB DIMM, or a 48GB one.
That might not sound like much, but in the coming years as games demand more than 16GB -- but where 32GB would be overkill -- these new 24GB memory kits are going to be very popular for the cost-cutting they facilitate.
Computing Have you heard of GPT-4? It's the latest language model for OpenAI's natural language chatbot, and it's said to be much better than GPT 3.5, which is available on ChatGPT. But how much better is it and what makes it different? That's what we're here to find out, with a direct head-to-head comparison of these two exciting, but distinctly different language models. Ultimately, we can decide whether it's worth paying the extra for a ChatGPT Plus subscription, or if it's better to just use GPT-4 for free.
What are GPT 3.5 and GPT-4? Computing Nvidia has two standout features on its RTX 30-series and RTX 40-series graphics cards: ray tracing and DLSS. The PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X have both done a good job of introducing most people to ray tracing, but DLSS is still a little nebulous. It's a little complex, but it lets you play a game at a virtualized higher resolution, maintaining greater detail and higher frame rates without taxing your graphics card as much. It gives you the best of all worlds by harnessing the power of machine learning, and with the introduction of DLSS 3, the technology just got even more powerful.
But there's a little more to the story than that. Here's everything you need to know about DLSS, how it works, and what it can do for your PC games.
What is DLSS? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
