Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Acer Chromebook Vero 514 Review Chromebook vs Laptop Screenshot on a Chromebook Reset a Chromebook Best Chromebooks Chromebook Problems Split Screen on a Chromebook Home Computing Guides How to reset a Chromebook By Jon Martindale and Kevin Parrish Close Everything used to work perfectly on your Chromebook. The speeds were quick. Your media played flawlessly. But now, you’re experiencing lag, and you can’t figure out what went wrong.
A note before going in Hard resetting a Chromebook Powerwashing a Chromebook Recover a Chromebook If you need to fix specific issues without completely wiping your Chromebook, we provide a separate guide on how to fix the most common Chromebook problems.
 However, if resetting appears to be your only solution, we'll show you how to get your Chromebook running like new.
Difficulty Duration What You Need A Chromebook A second PC A flash drive or SD card with 8GB of space or more The Chromebook's power cord A note before going in Chromebooks provide three ways to reset the settings if a simple reboot doesn’t work. Here's a brief explanation of each method: Hard reset: This resets the hardware settings only, such as the keyboard and camera.
Powerwash: This resets the Chromebook back to its factory settings, returning it to its out-of-the-box state. Afterward, you’ll need to link it to your account, redownload apps, and so on.
Recovery: This reinstalls Chrome OS from an external source, like a flash drive. Recovery is required when Chrome OS is damaged/corrupted and cannot be repaired.
Now that you're familiar with these methods, start your troubleshooting by performing a hard reset.
Hard resetting a Chromebook This may not work, but it's worth a try before returning your Chromebook back to its out-of-the-box settings.
Step 1: Turn off the Chromebook by holding down the Power button.
Step 2: Hold the Refresh button and then tap the Power button.
How to calibrate your monitor to make it better for free How to get Photoshop for free Here’s how to quickly and easily convert a PDF to Excel Step 3: Once the Chromebook starts, let go of the Refresh button.
If your issues persist, move on to the next section.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Powerwashing a Chromebook Powerwash is your next option. This built-in tool completely resets all settings to return Chrome OS back to its out-of-the-box state. That means it does the following: Removes all customizations -- wallpaper, display resolution, homepage, themes, and extensions.
Removes all user accounts and local files stored on the machine.
Ignores all files stored on an inserted SD card.
This is a good option if you want to remove clutter or fix a nagging problem. However, your Chromebook will need to install all software updates once it reconnects to the internet. This method does not reinstall Chrome OS -- you need a full recovery to fix or replace the operating system.
Here's how you can do this from inside Chrome OS. You can also begin the Powerwash sequence by pressing the Ctrl + Alt + Shift + R keys at the sign-in screen.
Step 1: Select the System clock on the Shelf and then the Cog icon in the pop-up menu. This opens the Settings panel.
Step 2: Choose Advanced listed on the left to expand the Settings menu, followed by Reset settings shown at the bottom.
Step 3: Select the Reset button displayed next to Powerwash.
Step 4: Select the blue Restart button on the pop-up prompt to continue.
Step 5: Once your Chromebook reboots, Google presents the message displayed in the screenshot below. To proceed, select the blue Powerwash button.
Michael Crider/Digital Trends Step 6: Another last chance pop-up window appears. Select Continue.
Your Chromebook will reboot again. When it turns back on, it will spend a short moment restoring the default settings. You’ll then need to set it back up as if you just bought a new Chromebook.
Michael Crider/Digital Trends Recover a Chromebook If you can't reach the sign-in screen or you see an error that Chrome OS is missing or damaged, you will need to perform a full recovery. This process completely wipes the internal storage device, making it completely unusable until recovery reinstalls Chrome OS. Google recommends you take a few precautionary steps first.
To recover a Chromebook, you need a second computer with Chrome installed and an external storage device like a USB flash drive or SD card with 8GB of space or more. You’ll also need to plug in your Chromebook's power cord.
Step 1: First, disconnect any accessories (like external storage or a mouse) from the Chromebook you're trying to recover.
Then, press the Esc + Refresh (circular arrow or F3) keys simultaneously. While still holding those keys, press and release the Power key. Keep holding the Esc + Refresh keys until you see a screen that says, “Chrome OS is missing or damaged,” or “Please insert a recovery USB stick or card.” Step 2: On another computer, insert your USB drive or SD card, open Chrome, and install Google’s Chromebook recovery utility.
Step 3: Launch the utility and select the blue Get started button.
Step 4: Enter the model of your Chromebook, which should be displayed on its error screen — it’s the text at the bottom. Make sure to copy the text exactly. Alternatively, you can choose the Select a model from a list option to select the manufacturer and product. Select the blue Continue button when you’re ready.
Step 5: On the following screen, select the USB drive or SD card you inserted earlier — make sure it’s the correct one so that you don’t accidentally erase other drives connected to your computer. Select the blue Continue button.
Michael Crider/Digital Trends Step 6: Finally, select the blue Create now button to confirm the recovery image’s destination. Wait for the writing process to complete, and if the OS asks you to confirm any software installations, do so.
Step 7: When the process finishes, select Done and then remove the USB drive or SD card from your other computer.
Step 8: Insert the recovery drive into your Chromebook. Your Chromebook will now restart and begin the recovery process.
Step 9: Remove the USB drive or SD card from your Chromebook when the following message appears: “System recovery is complete.” Step 10: Your Chromebook will automatically restart. Log in to your Google account to finish setting it up. You’ll need a secure Wi-Fi connection to finish.
Editors' Recommendations 4 easy ways to take a screenshot on a Windows PC How to use a blue light filter on your PC or Mac How to block an email address in Gmail Here’s how to combine PDF files the easy way How to set up multiple monitors for PC gaming Chromebooks Google Google Chrome How-To Guides Laptops Computing If you’re on a computer and you get a text on your phone, wouldn’t it be great if you could reply without picking it up? Yes, it would, and there are great apps and services that enable just that ability.
Whether you use Apple or Android, you can send and receive text messages on a Mac, Windows PC, or Chromebook. Keep reading to determine which option works best for you.
Computing If you're a YouTube fan like us, you might want to know what the most viewed YouTube videos are, and how to download YouTube videos.
Downloading a video from YouTube doesn’t seem like a big deal at first glance, but it comes with ethical concerns to consider, depending on the original post’s intent. And it's something Google definitely doesn't want you doing — it's a clear violation of YouTube's Terms of Service, but it's even more important to keep the original content creators in mind.
Computing Wi-Fi problems can strike anyone at any time, no matter how much networking experience you may have. But if you've not come across a particular Wi-Fi issue before, there's no need to worry if you don't know how to fix it. All you need are the right tools and a few tips, and you'll be able to solve your Wi-Fi problem in no time.
Whether you're experiencing problems with slow internet, Wi-Fi signal dropping, or you just can't connect to Wi-Fi at all, here are some of the quickest and easiest fixes you can try. We'll also cover some advanced advice on more troubling issues that would definitely result in your Wi-Fi not working at all, or at slower speeds.
Slow or no Wi-Fi or internet access in certain rooms Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
