Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Acer Chromebook Vero 514 Review Chromebook vs Laptop Screenshot on a Chromebook Reset a Chromebook Best Chromebooks Chromebook Problems Split Screen on a Chromebook Home Computing Guides How to take a screenshot on a Chromebook By Kevin Parrish Close How to take a screenshot on a Chromebook boils down to a couple of keyboard shortcuts. We rounded up what those shortcuts are, as well as a slate of tips for what to do with them on Chrome OS.
How to capture a full screenshot on a Chromebook How to upload screenshots to the cloud How to capture a specific area for a screenshot on a Chromebook How to capture screenshots in tablet mode using the buttons How to take full-capture screenshots in tablet mode using a stylus How to take partial-capture screenshots in tablet mode using a stylus Editing screenshots Using external keyboards Other screenshot tools Difficulty Duration What You Need Chromebook Further reading How to record your computer screen How to take a screenshot on a Mac How to take a screenshot on an iPad Image used with permission by copyright holder How to capture a full screenshot on a Chromebook To take a screenshot of everything on your screen, press the following keys simultaneously: Ctrl + Show windows.
The latter button is typically located in the top row between the Full-Screen and Brightness down buttons, as shown above. It resembles a rectangle followed by two lines and replaces the typical F5 key found on standard keyboards.
Image used with permission by copyright holder How to upload screenshots to the cloud Once you press both keys, a notification appears in the bottom-right corner displaying a thumbnail of your screenshot, as shown above. Selecting the thumbnail leads you to the Downloads folder, which is where all screenshots go by default, making them accessible offline. You can also access screenshots by selecting the blue Files folder-style icon on the Shelf and choosing either Images or Downloads.
Chrome OS labels all screenshots with the date and time they were captured.
Since Chrome OS saves screenshots locally on your device, they won’t be available on Google Drive unless you manually upload them to the cloud. To do so, follow these steps: Step 1: Open the Files app, and select either Images or Downloads listed on the left.
Step 2: Choose the screenshot you want to upload. For multiple uploads, select the Check icon on each screenshot (thumbnail view) or draw a box around the files using a mouse or touchpad (list view).
How to calibrate your monitor to make it better for free How to get Photoshop for free Here’s how to quickly and easily convert a PDF to Excel Step 3: Select the Share button located on the top-right side of the screen.
Step 4: Select Save to drive on the drop-down menu. As shown below, you can send the screenshot to other accounts, like OneDrive and Dropbox. Read our guide on how to use Google Drive for more useful tips.
If you have a Chromebook with a 360-degree hinge like a Pixelbook, skip to the “Screenshots in Tablet Mode” section in this guide for an alternate touch-based method.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder How to capture a specific area for a screenshot on a Chromebook In addition to a full shot, you can create a window to capture a shot of part of the screen by using the Ctrl + Shift + Show Windows shortcut.
Step 1: Hold down the Ctrl + Shift keys simultaneously, then press the Show Windows button.
Step 2: The screen dims, and the cursor temporarily changes to a cross-hair. Use the cross-hair to start one corner of your capture area and hold down on the mouse button or touchpad.
Step 3: Drag the cursor across the screen using your mouse or finger until you create a box.
Step 4: Let go of the mouse button or lift your finger to complete the box and capture the screen.
Step 5: The captured window saves to the Images and Downloads folders, the same as a full screenshot.
Note : If you’re running Chrome OS 88 or newer and you enabled the new Screen Capture utility using flags, you’ll see the new toolbar appear at the bottom of the screen with the Screenshot and Partial buttons selected by default. You’ll also see buttons to switch over to full-screen or Window modes.
How to capture screenshots in tablet mode using the buttons Many 2-in-1 and tablet devices running Chrome OS may not have immediate access to a keyboard. Don’t worry; there’s an easy screenshot shorthand you can use in tablet mode.
Step 1: Press the following physical buttons simultaneously: Power + Volume down.
Step 2: Your screen registers the screenshot and takes an image of the entire screen.
PhotoMIX-Company/Pixabay How to take full-capture screenshots in tablet mode using a stylus Follow these steps to capture a screenshot in tablet mode with a stylus.
Step 1: Select Stylus (or Pen ).
Step 2: Use the stylus to choose the Capture screen option. This grabs a screenshot of your entire screen.
How to take partial-capture screenshots in tablet mode using a stylus Want to capture only a part of your screen in tablet mode with a stylus? Follow these steps: Step 1: Select Stylus (or Pen ).
Step 2: Use the stylus to choose the Capture region option.
Step 3: Use the stylus to touch and hold your starting point on the screen.
Step 4: Drag your stylus to the final point, creating a box.
Step 5: Release to capture your screenshot.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Editing screenshots Screenshots captured by Chrome OS are ready to share, but if you need to edit them first, familiarize yourself with the built-in image editor. Here’s how to use it: Step 1: Select the blue Files folder icon on the Shelf and choose Images or Downloads listed on the left.
Step 2: Select your screenshot to open it in the Gallery app. If it’s not your default image viewer, right-click on the file and choose Gallery from the pop-up menu.
Step 3: Along the top of the Gallery app, you’ll see a toolbar with the following tools: Crop & rotate, Rescale , and Lighting filters.
 Each tool opens a panel on the right side, providing adjustable settings. For instance, the Lighting filters tool provides sliders for Exposure, Contrast, and Saturation , as shown above.
Step 4: In addition to the three main editing tools, you’ll see buttons to undo and redo any changes you make.
Step 5: When you’re done, click the blue Save button to save the edits to the original file.
Step 6: Alternatively, click the blue Down arrow icon to save the edited image as an altered copy.
Using external keyboards If you’re using a Chrome OS-powered desktop (Chromebox) or an external keyboard plugged into a Chromebook, the keyboard probably uses a standard function key row instead of Chrome’s dedicated button row. Here are the Chrome OS commands that replace the typical function key commands: F1 — Previous page F2 — Next page F3 — Refresh F4 — Full screen F5 — Show windows F6 — Decrease brightness F7 — Increase brightness F8 — Mute F9 — Decrease volume F10 — Increase volume Step 1: For capturing a screenshot, type Ctrl + F5 on a standard keyboard.
Step 2: For a partial capture, press Ctrl + Shift first, followed by F5.
Step 3: You can customize the shortcut, too, by pressing Alt + Shift + S , Step 4: Then select Settings > Device > Keyboard.
 There, you can change the function of your keys.
Other screenshot tools The built-in image tools for Chrome OS are a bit lackluster, but there are plenty of apps and extensions on Google’s Chrome Web Store to help add extra functionality. Here are some helpful picks: Lightshot : Lightshot is a great beginner option that allows you to drag and drop a screenshot over any section of the screen. You can edit the screenshot in place, then download it or send it to the cloud. It’s easy to use and widely applicable for most purposes.
FireShot : Save an entire page as an image without multiple screenshots. You can save in multiple formats and send them directly to OneNote or email.
Awesome Screenshot and Screen Recorder : For those who want a broader, more powerful tool, Awesome Screenshot and Screen Recorder allows you to choose between screen capture and screen recording so you can also capture video whenever you want. The app supports annotations and easy blurring as well.
Editors' Recommendations 4 easy ways to take a screenshot on a Windows PC How to use a blue light filter on your PC or Mac How to block an email address in Gmail Here’s how to combine PDF files the easy way How to set up multiple monitors for PC gaming How-To Chromebooks Google Chrome How-To Guides Laptops Computing If you’re on a computer and you get a text on your phone, wouldn’t it be great if you could reply without picking it up? Yes, it would, and there are great apps and services that enable just that ability.
Whether you use Apple or Android, you can send and receive text messages on a Mac, Windows PC, or Chromebook. Keep reading to determine which option works best for you.
Computing If you're a YouTube fan like us, you might want to know what the most viewed YouTube videos are, and how to download YouTube videos.
Downloading a video from YouTube doesn’t seem like a big deal at first glance, but it comes with ethical concerns to consider, depending on the original post’s intent. And it's something Google definitely doesn't want you doing — it's a clear violation of YouTube's Terms of Service, but it's even more important to keep the original content creators in mind.
Computing Wi-Fi problems can strike anyone at any time, no matter how much networking experience you may have. But if you've not come across a particular Wi-Fi issue before, there's no need to worry if you don't know how to fix it. All you need are the right tools and a few tips, and you'll be able to solve your Wi-Fi problem in no time.
Whether you're experiencing problems with slow internet, Wi-Fi signal dropping, or you just can't connect to Wi-Fi at all, here are some of the quickest and easiest fixes you can try. We'll also cover some advanced advice on more troubling issues that would definitely result in your Wi-Fi not working at all, or at slower speeds.
Slow or no Wi-Fi or internet access in certain rooms Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
