Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Here’s how to use Sidecar in MacOS Catalina to make your iPad a second screen By Anita George and Jeff Weisbein Close One of the most exciting features to come out of MacOS Catalina is its new second screen support feature, Sidecar. The new tech turns your iPad into a second screen for your Mac, as well as a drawing tablet for illustrators and designers. To get the most out of Sidecar, you’ll need to know how to set it up and what it requires to work properly.
1. Check your hardware 2. Update to iPadOS and MacOS Catalina 3. Log in to the same Apple ID on your devices 4. Make the connection 5. Start Sidecar-ing! Here’s what you’ll need to get Sidecar working in MacOS Catalina, and some simple instructions about how to set it up.
1. Check your hardware Apple Sidecar only works on the newer models of iPads and MacBooks. According to that same white paper Apple published about Sidecar, Catalina’s second screen support feature does have a processor requirement for Macs: You’ll need a Mac with a Skylake processor or later.
The M3 iMac is here, but it’s missing its most requested change Common macOS Sonoma problems and how to fix them Best Apple Deals: MacBooks, AirPods, iPads, iMacs, AirTags and more The white paper also provides a list of supported Mac models that can run Sidecar, which include: 2016 MacBooks or later, 2018 MacBook Airs or later, 2016 MacBook Pros or later, 2018 Mac minis or later, 2015 iMacs or later, 2017 iMac Pros or later, and 2019 Mac Pros or later. It should be noted that this is a different system requirement than Catalina itself.
Furthermore, Sidecar can only be used on iPads that support Apple Pencil. The white paper also went on to list the individual iPad models that are able to run Sidecar: Sixth-generation iPads or later, fifth-generation iPad minis, third-generation iPad Airs, and iPad Pros (9.7-inch, 10.5-inch, 11-inch, and 12.9-inch models).
2. Update to iPadOS and MacOS Catalina Dan Baker/Digital Trends Next up is software. You will, of course, need to start by updating your Mac to Catalina. Start off by backing up your Mac, and then make sure you have at least a minimum of 12.5GB of storage (or at least 18.5GB of storage for Macs currently running OS X Yosemite or earlier). Once you’ve done all that, you’re ready to download Catalina.
Additionally, if you plan on using certain Sidecar-related features like Continuity Sketch and Markup, you’ll also need to make sure that all of your devices (in which you plan to use those features) have the right operating systems.
According to Apple’s white paper about Sidecar , if you want to use Continuity Sketch or Markup, you’ll need to have a Mac running Catalina, an iPad running iPadOS, or an iPhone running at least iOS 13.
3. Log in to the same Apple ID on your devices When using Sidecar, you’ll also need to make sure that the devices you’re pairing up (your Mac and iPad) both have the same Apple ID account assigned to them.
You won’t be able to use Sidecar with devices that each have different Apple IDs.
4. Make the connection Image used with permission by copyright holder Once you’re logged in, you can connect to Sidecar via the AirPlay menu on your Mac. Once you select the AirPlay Menu , select your iPad from that menu. From there, your AirPlay icon should now appear as an iPad icon. Click this icon to view your Sidecar-related options.
While it’s true that you can use the Sidecar feature by either wirelessly connecting your devices or via a wired connection, there are still two caveats worth remembering. For wireless connections, it’s important to remember that you can only use your iPad wirelessly up to 10 meters away from your Mac. Also, according to Apple’s white paper, both devices need to have Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, and Handoff turned on.
For wired connections, the required cable type largely depends on which iPad model you’re using, but you’ll need either a lightning or USB-C cable.
5. Start Sidecar-ing! Image used with permission by copyright holder Once you link your iPad to your Mac using Sidecar, you can start selecting, dragging, and positioning Mac application windows to your iPad screen. You can use the menu option instead if you don’t want to move the icons manually. Look for a green button and hover your cursor over it. The feature will then give you the option of moving the window to your iPad screen.
Apple has been clear that , for the most part, support for Sidecar “is included at the system level for all apps.” The company states that this support includes “both general navigation and drawing with Apple Pencil.” In an October 2019 press release, Apple said that iPad users would need to use explicitly compatible apps with stylus input if they wanted to use an Apple pencil to write, sketch, or draw on the device. That app could be an Apple or third-party Mac product. Luckily, this requirement isn’t significantly limiting since many apps already work efficiently with Sidecar.
Apple’s main webpage for Catalina showcases several phenomenal productivity apps like Adobe Illustrator, Affinity Photo, Cinema 4D, Maya, and ZBrush. Each of these services pairs wonderfully with Sidecar if you’re in need of a new tool.
Editors' Recommendations Best iPad deals: Save on 10.2-inch iPad, iPad Pro, and more This genius app turns your iPad into a Mac drawing tablet How to take a screenshot on your Mac: the best methods in 2023 Have an iPhone, iPad, or Apple Watch? You need to update it right now Apple may soon eliminate the notch from your Mac and iPhone Apple Apple Apple iPad Software Computing Apple has been running a self-service repair program that lets you fix up your devices yourself since April 2022, but it’s always been a little bit hobbled. Now, though, Apple has expanded the program to include some of the latest devices available in what could be a boost to the right-to-repair movement.
Starting today, the program will include the M2 13-inch MacBook Air and the M2 13-inch MacBook Pro, as well as the entire iPhone 14 lineup. That means if you want to repair one of these products, Apple will provide you with official parts, tools and instructions to help you do it. Previously, you couldn’t do this yourself with Apple-approved parts, despite the devices being available for many months.
Computing MacOS 14 is coming and coming soon, and thanks to Apple's big keynote address at WWDC 2023, we now know what it can do, what it's called, and who can get it. The next generation Mac operating system is codenamed Sonoma, and it's bringing gaming to macOS in a big way, as well as improving video calls, and security. It's going to be available for most modern Mac and MacBook users, but there are some legacy systems that are unfortunately being left out in the cold.
Wondering if your Mac can get macOS 14? Here's everything we know about what Macs are and aren't compatible with Sonoma.
Computing What if your macOS dock behaved more fluidly, dynamically morphing to show background processes such as download progress, media controls, text messages, and so on? The following concepts demonstrate "what if" macOS and iOS Live Activities got together and had a child, and they have certainly got my imagination going.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
