Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Acer Chromebook Vero 514 Review Chromebook vs Laptop Screenshot on a Chromebook Reset a Chromebook Best Chromebooks Chromebook Problems Split Screen on a Chromebook Home Computing Guides How to split screen on a Chromebook By Tyler Lacoma Close Splitting your screen into two separate windows is a handy method of task management that fits well with busy Chromebooks.
 Splitting your screen is excellent for doing research, looking up tutorials, consulting multiple sources, comparing images or video, and much more. Fortunately, Chromebook makes this split option very easy to do or undo at a moment’s notice. Here's how to split screen on a Chromebook.
How to split screen on a Chromebook Don't forget the keyboard shortcuts Difficulty Duration What You Need A Chromebook Mulitple app windows or browser tabs you want to view at the same time How to split screen on a Chromebook Use the following step-by-step instructions to drag and drop your windows into a split-screen format. If you'd rather use keyboard shortcuts instead, skip to the second section about those shortcuts.
Here's how to use split screen on your Chromebook: Step 1: Drag and position your first window. For this example, let’s start with a humble browser tab. Open your window as you normally would, and then look at the upper-right corner to see your options for window management.
Look for the small Window icon -- it’s typically the two-window “restore down” icon at this stage since the window is filling your entire screen, but it will change to a single-window “maximize” button when made smaller. For the purposes of splitting your screen, it doesn’t matter which version of the icon is there.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: Now, select that Window icon and hold. With the cursor held down, drag the window toward one side of your screen or the other. You should activate a lock-on function that will snap the window toward one side or the other of your screen, with a temporary divider line appearing to indicate you are splitting your screen.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Black Friday laptop deal drops this Lenovo Chromebook to $149 4 easy ways to take a screenshot on a Windows PC How to calibrate your monitor to make it better for free Step 3: Release and the window will be locked onto the side you dragged it to, but otherwise, everything should remain the same. If holding down and dragging is annoying (such as while using a trackpad), try only holding down for a second and then releasing. Chrome OS should then show two Left/Right arrows around the icon that you can select to lock the window over to one side. It’s a little slower but could be easier in some situations.
Step 4: Position your second window. With your first window in place, it’s time to tackle the other side. Open up another browser tab that you want to access, and once it’s ready, again select and hold the Restore down/Maximize Window button in the upper-right corner. Drag this window to the opposite side of your first window, and it too should automatically snap into place, allowing you to release your cursor hold.
Now the two windows will be active on the screen at the same time, allowing you to move freely between them. One key point to remember is that the Restore down/Maximize button should be available on all your Chrome apps, so you’re not stuck only splitting browser windows -- you can also split a variety of apps and browser/app combinations as you need to.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 5: When you've finished with split-screen mode, select the Maximize button. This should return both windows to their expanded state and remove the locked-split screen. You can use the same trick to return to the split-screen whenever you want.
Since the whole process requires dragging and dropping, it generally works better and can be a bit easier with a mouse than a trackpad. To make the process even easier, you can try mastering some keyboard shortcuts. Or, check out our guide on how to split your screen on Windows 10.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Don't forget the keyboard shortcuts There are also keyboard shortcuts for splitting your screen on Chromebook, and this can make the process even faster if you plan on splitting your windows frequently and would prefer a shortcut to do it.
The shortcuts involve the Alt key and the bracket symbol keys. Select your window, and then press Alt + [ at the same time to lock the window to the left side, or Alt + ] to lock the window on the right side.
Editors' Recommendations Best Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals: Chromebooks, gaming laptops, and more How to insert a checkbox in Word This Gateway Chromebook can be yours for under $200 right now Best Chromebook deals: Cheap laptops starting at $180 What does printer spooling mean, and how to fix it on Windows and Mac How-To Chromebooks Google Chrome How-To Guides Laptops Microsoft Microsoft Windows Windows Guides Computing With the launch of new Chromebook Plus laptops, we're spotting some great Chromebook deals for those that wish to stay up to date. Chromebook Plus promises to effectively offer double of everything with twice the performance, twice the storage, and twice the memory. Perhaps more noticeably, a new key component to it is Google's AI being everywhere to simplify your life. Webcams have AI-powered noise cancellation, while there are lighting improvements and background blur. You also gain AI tools from Google Photos like Magic Eraser. These are just some of the upgrades that make buying a new Chromebook Plus super tempting. That's why we've listed below some of the best Chromebook Plus deals around. Let's take a look at what you can get for your budget.
Acer Chromebook Plus 515 -- $269, was $399 The Acer Chromebook Plus 515 offers an Intel Core i3 processor, 8GB of memory and 128GB of UFS storage aka Universal Flash Onboard Storage. It also has a 15.6-inch full HD display with an anti-glare coating so it can handle being used in bright conditions. There's also a 1080p webcam packed with all the aforementioned built-in AI powered video call tools. The whole laptop looks suitably sleek and stylish too.
Computing Researchers are continually releasing studies on the potential harm of blue light. When you stare at a screen all day and into the evening, it can affect your sleep and disrupt your body's natural rhythms. For these reasons, blue light filters are incredibly important.
Computing HP has one of the best early Black Friday deals for someone seeking a cheap Chromebook. Today, you can buy a HP Chromebook 14a for $200 saving $110 off the regular price of $310. One of the better Chromebook deals around, this is an ideal Chromebook for taking to class or for occasional use on the move. Here's what else you might wish to know before you buy it.
Why you should buy the HP Chromebook 14a HP is one of the best laptop brands around and that means the HP Chromebook 14a is pretty reliable. It has an Intel Celeron processor, 4GB of memory and 64GB of eMMC storage. As you can see, this isn't a powerful laptop by any means but it's dependable and fine for basic purposes.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
