Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Acer Chromebook Vero 514 Review Chromebook vs Laptop Screenshot on a Chromebook Reset a Chromebook Best Chromebooks Chromebook Problems Split Screen on a Chromebook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? HP Dragonfly Pro Chromebook review: fast, modern, and helpful By Mark Coppock Close $999.00 Extremely fast ChromeOS performance Excellent, bright display Good keyboard and superior haptic touchpad Solid build quality Convenient live support Expensive Below average battery life HP’s new Dragonfly Pro laptops come in two versions: one runs Windows 11, and one runs ChromeOS. Both are aimed at freelancers or other small business users who need a quality laptop with modern features and live 24/7 support. Today we’re reviewing the ChromeOS flavor, but I’ll review the Windows 11 version later.
Specs and configurations Top-tier Chromebook design Help when you need it Among the fastest Chromebooks A very bright, high-res display A truly modern Chromebook that elevates the platform The ability to contact technical support directly on the laptop to work out issues is a new feature that immediately differentiates the Dragonfly Pro line from most other laptops.
 Fortunately, HP doesn’t rely on that alone to make it an alluring premium Chromebook offering.
Best HP laptop deals: Get a Windows laptop for $199 Dell vs. HP: Which laptop brand is best for your needs? Google is changing everything you know about Chromebooks Specs and configurations HP Dragonfly Pro Chromebook Dimensions 12.4 inches x 8.7 inches x 0.7 inches Weight 3.33 pounds Processor Intel Core i5-1235U Graphics Intel Iris Xe RAM 16GB Display 14.0-inch 16:10 QHD+ (2,560 x 1,600) Storage 256GB PCIe SSD Touch Yes Ports 4 x USB-C with Thunderbolt 4 Wireless Wi-Fi 6E and Bluetooth 5.3 Webcam 8MP Operating system ChromeOS Battery Up to 11.5 hours Price $999 There’s only one configuration of the Dragonfly Pro Chromebook, priced at $999 for a Core i5-1235U, 16GB of RAM , and a 256GB PCIe SSD. It can be ordered in either black or white. That makes it an expensive Chromebook, but less than HP’s other enterprise-oriented versions.
Top-tier Chromebook design Mark Coppock / Digital Trends The Dragonfly Pro Chromebook’s lid opens smoothly with one hand, yet still has enough friction to hold the display firmly in place. The aluminum chassis is solid as a rock, while the lid demonstrates zero bending no matter how hard you try. This Chromebook is built as well as the best Windows and Apple premium laptops like the Dell XPS 13 Plus and the Apple MacBook Pro 14 , something you don’t find that often. Notably, HP’s previous best Chromebook, the Elite Dragonfly Chromebook , wasn’t as solid.
It’s a simplistic design, all-black or all-white, with just a silver HP logo on the lid and speaker grills to each side of the keyboard adding some flair. Minimalism is the trend lately in laptop aesthetics, but that doesn’t mean the Dragonfly Pro Chromebook is unattractive. It’s not. It’s actually quite fetching, with just the right combination of lines and angles to give it a sleek look. The top and bottom display bezels aren’t the tiniest you’ll find, but when open, it still maintains a modern look.
The Dragonfly Pro Chromebook isn’t the thinnest or lightest laptop around, at 0.70 inches and 3.33 pounds, but it’s still highly portable. The Acer Chromebook Spin 513 is thinner at 0.64 inches and lighter at 2.83 pounds, but the difference isn’t significant. In comparison, the highly sustainable all-plastic Acer Chromebook Vero 514 weighs a little less at 3.09 pounds but is thicker at 0.80 inches. Neither of these laptops is as solid as the HP.
The keyboard is well-planned, following the usual ChromeOS layout, and has large, comfortable keycaps and plenty of key spacing. The switches are light, with a snappy feel that could benefit from more pressure. It’s not quite up to the standards of the HP Spectre keyboards, but it’s close and good enough for long typing sessions.
Mark Coppock / Digital Trends The touchpad is haptic, and as such supports “clicking” across the entire surface. It’s very precise and the haptic feedback is excellent, providing the feel of solid physical buttons without the noise. I’d rate it as one of the best touchpads you’ll find on a Chromebook, and it’s also nicely sized for a 14-inch laptop in general. In my experience, it’s better than the haptic touchpad in the Dell XPS 13 Plus.
Connectivity is limited to four Thunderbolt 4 ports, and while that’s impressive in terms of modern connectivity, that’s all you get. You’ll need some dongles for legacy devices. HP also opted to leave out an audio jack, following a trend that I dislike quite a bit, but that’s unsurprising given that the smartphone industry has gone in this direction as well, and some other notebook makers are following suit.
Help when you need it Mark Coppock/Digital Trends HP’s new 24/7 Pro Live Support service provides either chat or phone support with a live agent. It’s free for the first year of ownership, and then $11 monthly for up to 36 months. Once you’ve established an HP account, you can simply click the support agent link in the HP Support Assistant app, select your specific laptop, and get support without the usual muss or fuss.
I had a question about how to turn on the RGB keyboard lighting, and so I used the service to get an answer. The process was simple and direct, and I had the instructions within five minutes of starting the chat. By the way, the process of turning on the backlighting is easy. Press and hold on the home screen, select Set wallpaper & style , and then the keyboard options will be toward the bottom. You can select no backlighting, white, a specified other color, or a rainbow effect.
This is a great service for anyone without an IT department who still wants someone in their corner to help resolve tech issues. While I didn’t fully test the service, I got enough of a feel to know that it’s a solid addition, and well worth consideration for the right customer.
Among the fastest Chromebooks Mark Coppock/Digital Trends / Mark Coppock/Digital Trends As we always point out in our Chromebook reviews, ChromeOS doesn’t require nearly the resources of Windows 11 or MacOS. It’s a lightweight operating system built largely on web technologies, and as such, can get away with lesser components. The Dragonfly Pro Chromebooks use a 12th-gen Core i5-1235U, a 15-watt 10-core (two Performance and eight Efficient), 12-thread CPU running at a max Turbo Frequency of 4.4GHz. It’s a midrange CPU for Windows 11 machines but a high-end processor for ChromeOS.
Toss in the 16GB of RAM , a lot for a Chromebook, and the Dragonfly Pro Chromebook is among the speediest ChromeOS laptops we’ve reviewed. It’s the fastest we’ve tested in Geekbench 5 multi-core mode, and it took first place in the web-based Speedometer 2.0 test. I pushed the laptop hard, opening multiple tabs and running several Android apps in the background, and I suffered no slowdowns. Even Android games played well thanks to the Intel Iris Xe graphics (not that they were all comfortable to play in a clamshell).
Asphalt 9 is my go-to test, and it was smooth and stutter-free.
Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Ultimately, you’ll find the Dragonfly Pro Chromebook to meet your most demanding workflows. There’s nothing ChromeOS can throw at the laptop that it can’t handle.
Geekbench (single / multi) Speedometer 2.0 HP Dragonfly Pro Chromebook (Core i5-1235U) 1,424 / 5,830 237 Acer Chromeboook Ver0 514 (Core i5-1235U) 1,437 / 4,909 201 HP Elite Dragonfly Chromebook (Core i5-1245U) 1,394 / 4,055 206 Acer Chromebook Spin 513 (MediaTek Kompanio 1380) 936 / 3,438 76 HP Chromebook x360 14c (Core i3-1125G4) 898 / 2,866 N/A HP Chromebook x2 11 (Qualcomm Snapdragon 7c) 590 / 1,689 45 Asus Chromebook Flip CX5 (Core i5-1135G7) 1,190 / 4,151 163 Battery life was less than the other Intel Core Chromebooks in our comparison group, and also less than most of the ARM-based Chromebooks. If your ChromeOS workflow is at all demanding, you’re unlikely to get a full day of work out of the machine.
Web browsing Video HP Dragonfly Pro Chromebook (Core i5-1235U) 7 hours, 17 minutes 11 hours, 8 minutes Acer Chromebook Vero 514 (Core i5-1235U) 8 hours, 51 minutes 12 hours, 36 minutes HP Elite Dragonfly Chromebook (Core i5-1245U) 7 hours, 59 minutes 9 hours, 13 minutes Acer Chromebook Spin 513 (MediaTek Kompanio 1380) 11 hours, 7 minutes 12 hours, 42 minutes HP Chromebook x360 14c (Core i3-1125G4) 7 hours, 44 minutes 8 hours, 2 minutes HP Chromebook x2 11 (Qualcomm Snapdragon 7c) 12 hours, 42 minutes 10 hours, 59 minutes Asus Chromebook Flip CX5 (Core i5-1135G7) 9 hours, 25 minutes 8 hours, 50 minutes A very bright, high-res display Mark Coppock/Digital Trends The Dragonfly Pro Chromebook boasts a 14.0-inch 16:10 IPS display at 2560 x 1600, which is a sharp resolution for the display size. HP boasts up to 1,200 nits of brightness, which I can’t test because my colorimeter doesn’t support ChromeOS.
However, I found the display extremely pleasant to use during my testing. I don’t need such high brightness, but if I were to work in areas with a lot of ambient lighting (or outside), then certainly, that would come in handy. Colors were bright and natural, and blacks were true without fading to grey. It’s a great display for productivity or creative work and should please most users.
Audio was impressive, with tons of volume that completely filled my home office. There was no distortion at full volume, with clear mids and highs and a touch of bass. That’s thanks to four speakers, one on each side of the keyboard and two downward-firing. I wouldn’t need a pair of headphones or external speakers for streaming video or music, and overall I’d rate audio quality as a strength.
The webcam is an 8MP version, a first for a Chromebook, and it provides a clear, crisp image. HP worked closely with Google to optimize video quality in different lighting conditions, and videoconferencers will be pleased with the results.
A truly modern Chromebook that elevates the platform The Dragonfly Pro Chromebook is incredibly fast, built as well as the best laptops around, and has several features that bring it in line with its Windows competitors. Not many ChromeOS machines have haptic touchpads and Thunderbolt 4, not to mention live 24/7 technical support that’s so easily accessible.
It’s expensive at $999, but it’s one of the best Chromebooks around and raises the platform to compete with Windows 11 and MacOS more directly. It’s still ChromeOS, so if that doesn’t work for you, then this isn’t your machine. But if you’re looking for a quality Chromebook that doesn’t compromise, the Dragonfly Pro Chromebook qualifies.
Editors' Recommendations Best Chromebook deals: Cheap laptops starting at $180 Best laptop deals: Save on HP, Lenovo, Dell and Apple The best Chromebooks for 2023 The best HP laptops to buy in 2023 Does Dell or HP make the best 16-inch laptop? You might be surprised Chromebooks Google Chrome Laptop Reviews Laptops Product Reviews Windows Reviews Computing The Surface Laptop Go 3 is Microsoft's new affordable Surface laptop, with upgraded hardware and long battery life making it a compelling option for budget laptop buyers in 2023. But for anyone considering an upgrade to a Surface device at around that $800 price, the Surface Pro 7+ still presents an attractive purchase, and it can flip into a tablet when you need it.
That brings to mind the age-old question, of whether newer is automatically better. In this case, it might not be. Let's take a look at the Surface Laptop Go 3 versus Surface Pro 7+, to find out.
Computing Dell's XPS 15 has found its place on a number of our best-of lists, including best laptops and best 15-inch laptops. There are a number of reasons for those accolades, including a robust, yet relatively thin and light design, as well as strong performance and lovely displays.
But that doesn't mean it faces no competition. HP's Envy 16 2023 is a 16-inch laptop that gives the XPS 15 a run for its money. It's around the same price and offers similar or better performance. Is that enough to replace the XPS 15 on our lists? Specs and configurations Computing There's no doubt that Apple's MacBook Pro 16 is one of the best laptops you can buy today. It's incredibly well built, offers plenty of power to go with the best efficiency, and its display, keyboard, and touchpad are superior.
But, it's also incredibly expensive. That's where a laptop like HP's Envy 16 2023 comes in. It's also quite fast and well-built, with a gorgeous display option. And it's a lot less expensive. Can it topple Apple's mighty MacBook Pro? Specs and configurations Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
