Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Acer Chromebook Vero 514 Review Chromebook vs Laptop Screenshot on a Chromebook Reset a Chromebook Best Chromebooks Chromebook Problems Split Screen on a Chromebook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Lenovo Chromebook Duet 3 review: $300 well spent By Mark Coppock Close $300.00 Good enough productivity performance Excellent battery life Surprisingly good display Folio kickstand and keyboard included Strong value Keyboard is too cramped Limited to Wi-Fi 5 Expensive, top-of-the-line laptops are fun to review in their own right. But it’s budget laptops where the rubber hits the road — and where most people are shopping.
Design Ports Performance Display and audio Keyboard, touchpad, and webcam Battery life Our take Chromebooks are a good place to look in this regard, and the Lenovo Chromebook Duet 3 has always been one of our favorite devices to recommend on that list. $300 for a compact, powerful, and surprisingly well-built 2-in-1.
Why the latest ThinkPad X1 Yoga Gen 8 isn’t worth the upgrade Lenovo IdeaPad Gaming 3 hands-on review: Gaming on the cheap Lenovo ThinkPad X12 Detachable vs. Microsoft Surface Pro 8 My review unit came with a Qualcomm Snapdragon 7c Gen 2 CPU and a 10.9-inch 2K (2,000 x 1,200) display, and it’s the only configuration sold here in the states. Despite the uncomfortably small keyboard, Lenovo continues to impress by how much they’re able to squeeze into a device this cheap.
Design Mark Coppock/Digital Trends The Chromebook Duet 3 has been updated from the previous generation, with the most significant change being an increase in screen size from 10.1 inches to 10.9 inches. That results in the new version being slightly larger, about half an inch wider and a quarter of an inch taller. The bezels remain the same size, which is excessive for a modern device.
The Chromebook Duet 3 has increased slightly in thickness to 0.31 inches from 0.29 inches, and it weighs 1.14 pounds, up from 0.9 pounds. The most direct competitor, HP’s Chromebook x2 11 , is slightly narrower but half an inch taller, at 0.3 inches thick and 1.23 pounds. The base Apple iPad with a 10.2-inch display is narrower and taller but thinner at 0.29 inches and lighter at 1.07 pounds, and the Microsoft Surface Go 3 with a 10.5-inch display is also narrower and taller while being thicker at 0.33 inches and heavier at 1.2 pounds.
The tablet is constructed of a mix of aluminum along the edges and plastic on the back cover. I found it to be as well-built as other comparably priced tablets, with no bending or flexing. This doesn’t feel like a $300 tablet, which is saying a lot.
The kickstand here works as well as the built-in version on Surface devices.
Aesthetically, the Chromebook Duet 3 is a straightforward slate design with two color choices. My review unit was the Storm Grey, which was dark grey along the bottom three-quarters of the edges and the back cover and a lighter grey along the top. There’s also a Misty Blue option. Today’s tablets are very similar, with none of Lenovo’s competition standing out in terms of look and feel.
The included cloth-covered folio rear kickstand cover and detachable keyboard is a two-part unit, which is less convenient than one-piece designs. However, the back cover attaches solidly via magnets and doesn’t feel like it’s likely to come off accidentally, and the kickstand works as well as the built-in version on the Microsoft Surface Go 3 with a wide range of angles. Combined, the folio adds 0.95 pounds to the tablet’s total weight, bringing it up to 2.09 pounds.
Ports 2.
Lenovo Chromebook Duet 3 You get two USB-C 3.2 Gen 1 ports and a pogo pin connector for the keyboard, and that’s it. There’s no audio jack, which is disappointing, nor an SD card reader, which isn’t surprising.
Wireless connectivity is provided by Wi-Fi 5 and Bluetooth 5.1, a limitation of the Qualcomm chipset.
Performance Mark Coppock/Digital Trends Another change from the previous generation is a switch from a MediaTek Helio P60T CPU to a Qualcomm Snapdragon 7c Gen 2, an 8-core ARM CPU running at up to 2.4GHz. That provides a small bump in speed with a more up-to-date ARM processor. There’s 4GB of RAM and 64GB of eMMC storage, both of which are enough for a smooth Chrome OS experience thanks to the operating system’s inherent efficiencies.
During my testing, I found the Chromebook Duet 3 to be quick enough for the kinds of tasks for which a Chromebook is typically used. I could open quite a few Chrome tabs and run some Android apps in the background before I noticed any slowdown. Certainly, I could tell that the Chromebook Duet 3 was slower than laptops equipped with Intel Core CPUs, but for the money, the 2-in-1 was more than adequate.
Objectively, the Snapdragon 7c Gen 2 wasn’t fast at running the Geekbench 5 benchmark, equaling the same CPU in the HP Chromebook x2 11 but falling behind the Intel Chromebooks and the Acer Chromebook Spin 513 with a newer MediaTek Kompanio 1380 CPU. It hit 45 in the Speedometer 2.0 benchmark, again the same as the HP and slower than the rest of our comparison group.
You’ll be challenged in running the most intense Android games. For example, Asphalt 9 suffered some stuttering during gameplay. You’ll likely want to limit yourself to more casual titles.
Geekbench (single / multi) Speedometer 2.0 Lenovo Chromebook Duet 3 (Qualcomm Snapdragon 7c Gen 2) 623 / 1,709 46 Acer Chromebook Spin 513 (MediaTek Kompanio 1380) 936 / 3,438 76 HP Chromebook x360 14c (Core i3-1125G4) 898 / 2,866 N/A HP Chromebook x2 11 (Qualcomm Snapdragon 7c) 590 / 1,689 45 Asus Chromebook Flip CX5 (Core i5-1135G7) 1,190 / 4,151 163 Microsoft Surface Go 3 (Core i3-10100Y) 920 / 1,704 47 Display and audio Mark Coppock/Digital Trends The 11-inch IPS display comes in at a resolution of 2,000 x 1,200, labeled as 2K, and with a very unusual 15:9 aspect ratio. That’s a little taller than 16:9, but just barely so. The display is sharp enough that you can’t see any pixels unless you look for them, and I found it to be bright and colorful during my testing. Lenovo promises 400 nits of brightness, and I believe the display comes close.
I can’t apply my colorimeter to the display because it’s not supported in Chrome OS. Subjectively, though, in addition to being bright and colorful, the contrast is fairly deep with true blacks and text that pops on a white background.
The closest competitor is the HP Chromebook x2 11 , which has a more traditional 3:2 display at 2,160 x 1,440. That makes the HP’s display sharper and even taller, but I would characterize the overall quality as similar.
Two side-firing speakers provided audio that was clean and bright but didn’t get very loud. Mids and highs were nicely done, but there was zero bass. The sound quality is sufficient for system sounds and watching YouTube videos by yourself, but pull out a pair of Bluetooth headphones for bingeing Netflix and listening to your tunes.
Keyboard, touchpad, and webcam Mark Coppock/Digital Trends The keyboard is a different story. While it’s well-built and water-resistant, it’s also quite cramped, with small keycaps and significantly less key spacing than the typical laptop keyboard. The switches aren’t very smooth, with sufficient travel but a loose feeling and a bottoming action that lacks confidence.
It took me quite some time to get used to the keyboard, and I never did feel comfortable typing on it. The HP Chromebook x2 11’s keyboard was just as disappointing, while the Microsoft Surface Go 3’s version was much better. The best thing about the Chromebook Duet 3’s folio attachment is that it’s included in the $300 price.
The 5MP webcam provides a higher-resolution video image than many laptops costing hundreds more.
The touchpad is small but comfortable to use, with a smooth surface and reliable support of the full range of Chrome OS multitouch gestures. The buttons provide a solid and quiet click. The display is touch-enabled, of course, and supports Lenovo’s USI active pen. I didn’t receive the pen with my review unit and couldn’t test inking.
The front-facing camera is a full 5MP, meaning it can provide a higher-resolution video image than many laptops costing hundreds (or thousands) more. It’s a great option for hybrid workers who want a highly portable device for videoconferencing.
Battery life Mark Coppock/Digital Trends The Chromebook Duet 3 has just 29 watt-hours of battery capacity, which doesn’t sound like a lot, but it’s powering a small display and an energy-efficient ARM CPU. The HP Chromebook x2 11’s battery is slightly larger at 32 watt-hours, while the Microsoft Surface Go 3’s battery is slightly smaller at 28 watt-hours.
Nevertheless, the Chromebook Duet 3 demonstrated exceptional battery life. It made it to 11.5 hours in our web browsing test that cycles through a series of popular and complex websites, less than the Chromebook x2 11 but still a strong showing. In our video test that loops a local Full HD Avengers trailer, the Chromebook Duet 3 hit 16 hours, a surprisingly excellent result.
Battery life is a real strength of the Chromebook Duet 3, and it beats out all its similarly priced competition. This budget laptop will run for a full day of work and into the evening.
Web browsing Video Lenovo Chromebook Duet 3 (Qualcomm Snapdragon 7c Gen 2) 11 hours, 29 minutes 15 hours, 59 minutes Acer Chromebook Spin 513 (MediaTek Kompanio 1380) 11 hours, 7 minutes 12 hours, 42 minutes HP Chromebook x360 14c (Core i3-1125G4) 7 hours, 44 minutes 8 hours, 2 minutes HP Chromebook x2 11 (Qualcomm Snapdragon 7c) 12 hours, 42 minutes 10 hours, 59 minutes Asus Chromebook Flip CX5 (Core i5-1135G7) 9 hours, 25 minutes 8 hours, 50 minutes Microsoft Surface Go 3 (Core i3-10100Y) 5 hours, 24 minutes 11 hours, 42 minutes Our take The Lenovo Chromebook Duet 3 is a fantastic value at $300, particularly given that the folio kickstand and detachable keyboard are included. And it’s not just about the price — this little Chrome OS tablet can handle a surprising range of tasks, falling short of only the most demanding productivity and creative workflows.
You’ll spend hundreds of dollars more for a similar setup that won’t gain you much additional functionality. The Lenovo Chromebook Duet 3 is the best budget Chrome OS tablet (a little) money can buy.
Are there any alternatives? The closest Chrome OS tablet is the HP Chromebook x2 11. It’s about twice as expensive and offers similar performance but less battery life. It, too, includes its kickstand and keyboard add-ons, and its display is slightly sharper.
If you’re looking for a Windows 11 tablet, then the Microsoft Surface Go 3 is an option. It will also cost you more money, especially when you add on the detachable keyboard, but you’ll get a built-in kickstand and a much better typing experience.
Finally, the Apple iPad is a solid alternative. It starts at about the same price but doesn’t include the keyboard. However, you’ll get better performance and more apps, making the iPad a strong competitor.
How long will it last? The Chromebook Duet 3 is built well enough to last for years of service, and its components will keep the streamlined Chrome OS running efficiently for just as long. And the one-year warranty is more than acceptable at this price.
Should you buy it? Yes. At $300, the Chromebook Duet 3 makes a great secondary computer for demanding users and a great starter tablet for everyone else.
Editors' Recommendations The best 2-in-1 laptops in 2023 Microsoft Surface Pro 9 vs. Lenovo IdeaPad Duet 5i: which 2-in-1 is best? The best laptops for kids Lenovo’s new Chromebook Duet 5 offers an OLED screen at a budget price ThinkPad X1 Yoga vs. ThinkPad X1 Carbon Chromebooks Google Chrome Laptop Reviews Laptops Lenovo Product Reviews Computing Samsung announced that its Chromebook 2 convertible starts going on sale today for a starting price of $539. The Chrome OS-powered laptop is available in either bright Fiesta Red or more muted Mercury Gray colors, with Samsung promising special incentives if you pre-order the laptop early.
The Chromebook 2 will officially start shipping on March 1, Samsung said.
Computing Lenovo's ThinkPad line remains one of the most-recognized brands in computing, known for its solid build quality and excellent keyboards. The company has leveraged the ThinkPad name in the Windows 10 2-in-1 market, with its 360-degree convertible ThinkPad X1 Yoga and detachable ThinkPad X1 Tablet. The second generation of the latter takes on Microsoft's Surface Pro at the high end of the Windows 10 tablet market. Here, we pit the second-generation Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Tablet versus the Microsoft Surface Pro to see which machine is most worth its relatively high price.
Other than their basic form factor, the two machines couldn't be more different. The ThinkPad X1 Tablet is the no-nonsense, robust sedan with its iconic ThinkPad design aesthetic, and the Surface Pro is the sleek, modern sports car representing the height of Microsoft's tablet refinements. Read on to see which company's philosophy resulted in the best Windows 10 tablet.
Specs Computing If you're in the market for a 2-in-1 and you're particularly enamored of Microsoft's Surface line, you have several outstanding choices. The Surface Go 2 rounds out the bottom end and the the 15-inch Surface Book 3 marks the high end. But in the middle, where most people are shopping, things get murky.
The Surface Pro 7, and the Surface Book 3 13 are a bit more equally matched. They are different sizes and take different approaches to making a laptop work as a tablet, so the choice between them can still be confusing. Which better suits your needs? Here's everything you need to know.
Design Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
