Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News The M3 Max makes the MacBook Pro look like a nearly unbeatable laptop By Luke Larsen Close Apple Apple announced an update to its MacBook Pros at today’s Scary Fast event that brings the M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max under the hood. That might sound like a ho-hum generational chip refresh, especially coming just 10 months after the M2 Pro/Max models came out. But trust me — these new MacBook Pros have become an unstoppable force, especially the new full-tilt model with the M3 Max.
The 14-inch MacBook Pro (which replaces the 13-inch MacBook Pro ) will now have the option for the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max, while the 16-inch model gets the M3 Pro and an even more powerful M3 Max configuration. Across the board, these new M3 chips are built on the new 3nm technology, the same that’s used in the new iPhone 15 models, only scaled up for the Mac. It’s all about efficiency, with Apple claiming that the M3 chips provides the same performance at 30% less power.
In the 16-inch MacBook Pro , this top-end configuration also now comes with the insane option for 128GB of unified memory. It previously topped out at 96GB, which was already industry-leading.
Apple But let’s talk more in-depth about this M3 Max configuration, because it sounds absolutely ridiculous. It comes with up to a 16-core CPU, split between eight performance cores and eight efficiency cores. This is four more cores than in the M2 Max. The top-end configuration also comes with an option for a 40-core GPU, two more than what was available in the previous generation.
So, yes, there’s more cores now, but really it’s the efficiency of all these cores themselves that provide the meaningful uplift. Apple claims that in total, the M3 Max is two times faster than the M2 Max and 2.5 times faster than the M1 Max. It’s a very broad comparison to make, obviously, but this certainly appears to be a more meaningful upgrade than the M2 was over the M1.
That’s especially true when you consider the new GPU features, which is where the real heart of the performance increase can be found. All M3 chips will be getting a new feature called Dynamic Caching, as well as hardware-accelerated mesh shading and ray tracing.
 Dynamic Caching in particular seems to be doing the heaviest lifting in terms of providing improved performance in GPU rendering.
I received an early look at the capabilities of the new GPU architecture a number of demos, starting with the game Lies of P.
 With Game Mode and MetalFX Upscaling on, the game played at around 65 frames per second on the base M3 on a 14-inch MacBook Pro. Mind you, this was at max settings on an unplugged machine with very little fan noise.
Apple also showed off the extra performance in some non-gaming scenarios. On the medical front, Apple showed performance in an app called Q Path, where the M3 MacBook Pro was able to do cellular-level diagnosis of a virtual spleen in just seconds using machine learning. I was also shown a demo in Cinema4D that revealed how the M3 Max 16-inch MacBook Pro could handle a cinema-grade scene. Thanks to Dynamic Caching and the improved system on chip (SoC) across the board, the scene could be manipulated, providing a live preview of the changes. Apple also showed a virtualized model of an MRI that allowed a surgeon to visualize a complete view of the brain.
Apple Lastly, in an app called Archicad, I was shown how smoothly the M3 Max 16-inch MacBook Pro was able to render and interact with a complete 3GB CAD of a high school, zooming in and out of the architecture plans with ease. Obviously, we don’t have exact performance comparisons in these applications with previous generations, but it was all quite impressive to see.
On top of that extra performance, all these new M3 MacBook Pros still feature up to 22 hours of battery life and now come in a Space Black color to replace Space Gray. There’s even an improvement in the Liquid Retina XDR screen, which can now display SDR content 20% brighter, up to 600 nits.
These new MacBook Pros will replace the M2 models in the lineup, and land at the same price as well. The new entry-level M3 model starts at $1,499, while the M3 Pro model starts at $1,999. Meanwhile, the 16-inch MacBook Pro still starts at $2,499.
Editors' Recommendations Here’s why people are raising concerns about the M3 Pro MacBook Pro MacBook Pro M3: Should you choose the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max? Why Apple’s subtle MacBook Pro decision makes me so happy Nobody knows exactly how the M3’s Dynamic Caching works, but I have a theory Apple’s new M3 Pro might come with an unexpected downgrade Apple Laptops Mac Tech News Computing Apple just did something surprising. At its "Scary Fast" launch event, Apple announced a new chip, the M3.
But rather than introduce it in a MacBook Air like it did with the M1 and M2, this event was all about the MacBook Pro. The MacBook Air was inconspicuously missing.
Computing Apple is finally hitting its stride with gaming. The company today announced the new M3 family of chips during its "Scary Fast" event, and they pack a redesigned GPU that adds some much-needed features for gaming in 2023. There's just one problem -- you can't play a ton of games on Mac.
There are some great games available on Mac -- just check out our list of the best Mac games -- but the big hurdle for Apple has always been broad game support. With the release of M3, along with some recent developments to porting games from Windows to Mac, Apple has a chance to make its gaming ambitions a reality. But all of that effort won't matter until we see games releasing on the platform alongside PC and consoles.
A game-changing GPU Computing Macs with Apple silicon were a revelation when they launched three years ago, but we haven't seen Apple demonstrate how it will carry that idea forward since then. We saw the M2 release and the middling performance improvements that came with it, but the M3, announced during Apple's "Scary Fast" event, is the most important chip Apple has ever designed for Macs.
Although it carries the branding of the third generation of Apple silicon, it's really the second true generation. There's a lot riding on this release for Apple to prove that it can sustain its own silicon in Macs, and M3 is arriving at a time when there's fierce competition on all sides.
Second-gen Apple silicon Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
