Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Microsoft Surface Laptop 5 review: running to stand still By Luke Larsen Close $999.00 Lots of color options Still thin and light Thunderbolt 4, finally Upgradable storage Still uses 720p webcam Limited performance gains No more AMD options In its fifth iteration, the Surface Laptop has never needed a face-lift more than now. Don’t get me wrong – it’s still a stylish laptop, and I appreciate that some of its aesthetics have aged gracefully. Microsoft also says its fans don’t have many complaints.
Microsoft Surface Laptop 5 specs Staying the course Lots of missed opportunities Just not enough But with so many options pushing ahead into the future of laptop design, the Surface Laptop 5 feels like it’s being left in the dust by some of the best laptops you can buy right now.
Best Black Friday laptop deals: Get a new workhorse from $129 Best 17-inch laptop deals: Big savings on big screens Best Lenovo laptop deals: Get a new workhorse for $130 Microsoft Surface Laptop 5 specs Microsoft Surface Laptop 5 Dimensions 13.5-inch: 12.1 inches x 8.8 inches x 0.57 inches 15-inch: 13.4 inches x 9.6 inches x 0.58 inches Weight 13.5-inch: 2.8 pounds 15-inch: 3.44 pounds Processor Intel Core i5-1235U Intel Core i7-1255U Graphics Intel Iris Xe RAM Up to 32GB LPDDR5x Display 13.5-inch 3:2 PixelSense 2,256 x 1,504 IPS 15.0-inch 3:2 PixelSense 2,496 x 1,664 IPS Storage Up to 1TB PCie SSD Touch Yes Ports 1 x USB-C with Thunderbolt 4 1 x USB-A 3.1 1 x 3.5mm audio jack 1 x Surface Connect port Wireless Wi-Fi 6E and Bluetooth 5.1 Webcam 720p with infrared camera for Windows 11 Hello Operating system Windows 11 Battery Up to 18 hours (13.5-inch) Up to 17 hours (15-inch) Price 13.5-inch: $1,000+ 15-inch: $1,300+ Staying the course Image used with permission by copyright holder I thought the Surface Laptop needed a redesign last year. In its fifth generation, five years since the initial launch, it’s desperate for a new look. I do love the 3:2 aspect ratio screen, and the symmetrical bezels that surround the screen. It’s a look that no other laptop has copied verbatim, but its age is certainly starting to show. That bottom bezel, in particular, is just not a good look in 2022.
I could forgive the chunky top bezel if Microsoft had updated the webcam this time around, as it should have. But no – this is still a crummy 720p webcam, despite the fact that there would have been plenty of room for something better.
The Surface Laptop 5 is no longer at the front of the pack in terms of portability.
It’s not necessarily a horrible webcam, and Microsoft has made some software tweaks to improve the quality over last year’s model. But what this camera really needs is a higher resolution.
Portability is another aspect where the Surface Laptop design has always excelled in, but no longer stands out. The 13.5-inch model is 0.57 inches thick, and the 15-inch model is just 0.01 inches thicker. That’s very small, but in a world where the 0.44-inch MacBook Air M2 exists, the Surface Laptop 5 is no longer at the front of the pack.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Sage green color option, which first appeared in the Surface Laptop Go 2 earlier this year, is really the only thing new here. Sandstone and Black are still on offer for the metal versions, as well as the Platinum Alcantara model – but Alcantara is only available in the base configuration.
Speaking of the base configuration, the price scaling feels a little out of touch here too. It comes with a Core i5-1245U, 8GB of RAM, and 256GB of storage – for $1,000. That matches the MacBook Air M1, as well as the current price of the Dell XPS 13.
 Unfortunately, though, your customization options are limited and expensive. There aren’t any larger storage options, such as 1 or 2TB. Furthermore, the XPS 13 offers 512GB (or 1TB, depending on the day) of storage for the same price.
Microsoft continues its tendency to overcharge for memory and storage upgrades, charging $300 to go from 8GB to 16GB of RAM. Fortunately, the Surface Laptop 5 still has user-accessible storage, meaning you can upgrade yourself for much cheaper down the line.
Lots of missed opportunities Image used with permission by copyright holder In the world of tech, not moving forward is the same as standing still entirely. But it’s a risk Microsoft has decided to take with the Surface Laptop 5.
The screen hasn’t been changed from previous versions of the Surface Laptop. And while that’s not bad, per se, it doesn’t feature a lot of the splashy and fresh design elements of newer Surface devices. The Surface Laptop Studio from last year features a screen with modern, rounded edges, as well as a variable refresh rate screen up to 120Hz. Of course, that’s a more expensive product, but the Surface Pro 9 also includes that variable refresh rate too.
And then there the processor options. AMD was introduced in last year’s Surface Laptop 4 , which significantly improved multi-core performance and battery life. The Ryzen Edition Surface Laptop has been discontinued — at least for now. That leaves just Intel’s 12th-gen U-series chips to fill in the gaps. These aren’t Intel’s best. They are 15-watt chips that have just two Performance cores. The device never gets overly loud or hot, but there’s also not a ton of muscle here.
Geekbench (single / multi) Handbrake (seconds) Cinebench R23 (single / multi) PCMark 10 Complete Surface Laptop 5 (Core i7-1250U) 1209 / 6391 139 1130 / 7170 4198 Dell XPS 13 9315 (Core i5-1230U) 1393 / 4,459 333 1379 / 3457 4,023 Apple MacBook Air M2 (Apple M2) 1,925 / 7973 151 1,600 / 7,938 N/A Asus ZenBook S 13 UM4302 (Ryzen 7 6800U) 1417 / 6854 112 1402 / 8682 5647 Dell XPS 13 Plus (Core i7-1280P) 1316 / 8207 170 1311 / 6308 4,309 HP Envy x360 13.5 (Core i7-1255U) 1,566 / 7,314 169 1,623 / 5,823 5,203 The Surface Laptop 5 13.5 sits toward the bottom of the pack in terms of performance, right around the Dell XPS 13 9315, which remains one of the weakest Intel 12th-gen laptops I’ve tested. I’m guessing the Core i5 version of the Surface Laptop 5 13.5 would line up pretty closely with the XPS 13 in terms of performance.
Here’s the sad part. The Ryzen Edition Surface Laptop 4 actually beats the Core i7 Surface Laptop 5 in Geekbench multi-core performance. The newer model wins in terms of single-core performance, but it means that in some real-world tests that the Surface Laptop 5 is no faster than the Surface Laptop 4.
 Video encoding in Handbrake is an example where the two laptops are right in line with each other in terms of performance. Newer Ryzen 6000-powered devices, like the Asus Zenbook S 13 , perform this same test almost 20% faster.
That’s not the end of the world, and it doesn’t mean the Surface Laptop 5 is a poor performer necessarily. The Surface Laptop has never been known for performance, but the Surface Laptop 4 went a long way toward changing that perception. The Surface Laptop 5 reverts that trend, though.
Battery life was another area where the Surface Laptop 4 was enhanced by the use of AMD chips. The Surface Laptop 5 fares well enough, lasting around 10 and a half hours in light web browsing. That’s still a few hours behind the Surface Laptop 4,though, and in an era when the Apple Silicon MacBooks have this big of a lead in terms of battery life, I wish Microsoft had kept an AMD version around.
Just not enough Image used with permission by copyright holder The Surface Laptop 5 is a disappointment. It’s a design I like, and many of the essential elements are solid. The keyboard is great, the port selection has what you need, and the 3:2 display is pleasant to work on.
But as a laptop released in 2022 at this price, it’s falling behind. The M1 MacBook Air often sells for hundreds of dollars cheaper, despite being a faster and longer-lasting laptop. Then there are laptops like the Dell XPS 13 or HP Envy x360 13, both of which are cheaper and offer more affordable configuration options. I like the 3:2 touchscreen that the Surface Laptop 5 includes all the way down the stack, but Microsoft’s overpriced storage and memory make it hard to recommend anything beyond the base configuration.
Keeping an AMD model in the lineup may have made the Surface Laptop 5 a bit more competitive. But even still, there are a number of reasons the Surface Laptop 5 feels like it’s a few years old — because in many ways, it is.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today The best budget laptops for 2023 10 best laptops of 2023: tested and reviewed This sleeper Asus laptop is faster and cheaper than Microsoft’s Surface Laptop Go 3 The best October Prime Day laptop deals you can shop today Laptop Reviews Laptops Microsoft Microsoft Events Product Reviews Computing While there's no shortage of laptop deals in the market right now, students and professionals who want touchscreen functionality should check out the available Surface Laptop and Surface Pro deals. Microsoft's lineup of mobile devices has steadily increased in popularity because of their versatility and performance, so there's always high demand for discounts. If you want to take advantage of any of the offers that we've gathered here, you should do so quickly as the bargains may end sooner than you expect.
Microsoft Surface Go 3 -- $500, was $550 Functioning as a 2-in-1 laptop that can switch between tablet mode and laptop mode, the Microsoft Surface Go 3 won't have trouble dealing with basic tasks as it's equipped with the Intel Pentium Gold 6500Y processor and 8GB of RAM. The 10.5-inch touchscreen with 1920 x 1080 resolution is bright and colorful, and its 128GB SSD is more than enough for your documents. The Microsoft Surface Go 3 ships with Windows 11 Home in Mode, so you can start using it as soon as you unbox it. The device also promises up to 11 hours of battery life before requiring a recharge.
Computing The Surface Laptop Go 3 is Microsoft's new affordable Surface laptop, with upgraded hardware and long battery life making it a compelling option for budget laptop buyers in 2023. But for anyone considering an upgrade to a Surface device at around that $800 price, the Surface Pro 7+ still presents an attractive purchase, and it can flip into a tablet when you need it.
That brings to mind the age-old question, of whether newer is automatically better. In this case, it might not be. Let's take a look at the Surface Laptop Go 3 versus Surface Pro 7+, to find out.
Computing Announced during the Microsoft September event, the Surface Laptop Studio 2 joins a growing family of Surface devices. Equipped with all the same flexibility we'd expect from the best 2-in-1 laptops, the Studio 2 may look very similar to the previous version, but it's a lot more different than it seems at a glance.
How does the new version compare to Microsoft's original Laptop Studio? Below, we'll take you on a deep dive into these two devices and help you make your pick if you're trying to choose between them. Make sure to read our Surface Laptop Studio 2 review, as well.
Pricing and availability Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
