Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Products USB-A vs. USB-C: What’s the difference? By Tyler Lacoma Close Ports and cables are more confusing than they should be. With all the different USB standards, plug types, and speeds, it’s easy to get overwhelmed by the number of options. USB-A and USB-C are the two most common forms of USB, and knowing the differences between the two is essential for understanding what all your devices and peripherals can do.
What is USB-A? What is USB-C, and how does it differ? So, USB-C is a better connection? Where does USB 3.2 fit into this? See more Best USB-C cables How to install a USB outlet What is USB-A? USB Type-A connections refer to the physical design of the USB port. Every USB connection makes up a port in the host device, a connecting cable, and a receptor device. USB-A is a traditional USB host port design and one of the easiest to recognize on devices.
It’s a horizontal port with the bottom portion dedicated to pin connectors. This arrangement creates the infamous, one-sided USB connection that only works with the cable perfectly inserted — no matter how many times you have to try.
The best USB-C monitors for 2023 Thunderbolt 4: everything you need to know GPT-4 vs. GPT-3.5: how much difference is there? Interestingly, there is no USB-B host port. The USB-B connector is the receptor port on the USB device you are connecting to the host computer. Type B connections also are easy to recognize because of their square shape with rounded corners on one side, almost like the shape of a tiny house. USB type B is mainly for external peripherals, with a USB-A connection on one end and a USB-B connection. There are USB-B to USB-B cables, but they’re rarely used.
Note that there are also subsets of this design, like USB Mini-A and USB Micro-A, with different port designs, but these aren’t as important for our current discussion.
What is USB-C, and how does it differ? USB-C is a newer port type officially announced in 2014, although it took several years for the ports to reach widespread consumer devices, as we see today. Designed to solve many of the old USB-A port problems, USB-C was an entirely new type of USB port. Critical features of USB-C include: A slimmer design that fits into a port no matter which direction it’s flipped, designed to replace A, B, mini, and micro USB connections all at once.
A 100-watt, 20-volt connection is far more powerful than the older port and can handily power even larger devices.
Potential for a much higher data transfer rate than USB-A.
Support for power delivery to charge up devices on either end (with the right cables) and charge larger devices.
Support for video delivery at much higher quality, including transmitting 4K video to a screen.
Support for alternate modes that allow for lots of different adapters for specific connections like HDMI or VG — or older types of USB connections.
Potential compatibility with Thunderbolt 3 connections means a USB-C port can double as a Thunderbolt 3 port with extra hardware.
So, USB-C is a better connection? With the right data standard (see below), the USB-C connection is much faster and more versatile than USB-A. In time, you can expect USB-C connections to replace all older USB-A connections and other ports. This switchover will, however, probably take years.
For now, USB-A shows up alongside the USB type C connector in many computers, primarily to deal with compatibility issues. People may still have an older device, including smartphones, beloved controllers, receivers, TVs, keyboards, and many peripherals that require a USB-A/B connection.
Most people don’t want to buy an adapter to make USB-C backward-compatible with all their stuff. As the use of these older devices fades, USB-C will become the go-to port that everyone knows to look for — and we already see this happening in some sectors.
Where does USB 3.2 fit into this? USB 3.0 to 3.2 refers to a specific USB protocol for data when it comes to USB connections: Instead of describing the physical port, this refers to the data formats the port can handle. A notable change came with USB 3.0, which required a modification of the USB-A and USB-B designs to gain more capabilities and a faster data transfer speed. USB-A cables that support USB 3.0 and above come with a blue pin protector instead of the standard gray one.
USB 3.2 is divided into two different types. The fully updated version called USB 3.2 Gen 2×2, which is named after both the second generation and how it uses two 10Gbps lanes to reach a total of 20Gbps. The second type is an older USB 3.1 10Gbps standard that, with its latest updates, can also be referred to as USB 3.2 Gen 2.
And just to throw one more wrench into the mix, USB type A and USB-C ports can support various standards, anywhere from USB 2.0 to USB 3.2. There are no universal names for these protocols to make matters more complex, so not everyone uses the same name. For example, USB 3.1 Gen 1 is also called USB 3.0. Fortunately, USB 3.2 is backward-compatible with all other USB connections, although USB-C ports may require an adapter. You also must make sure that your USB cables and devices support 3.1 data capabilities when possible.
If you’re feeling confused, we understand. Luckily, there are only a few simplified, crucial points that you would do best to remember: USB-A and USB-C can both have a degree of data standards, up to USB 3.2, which outlines their overall data capabilities.
USB 3.2 is backward-compatible with other standards, making it an excellent standard for users, although it may call for you to use extra adapters.
A USB-C connection is the only one that can support the full potential of USB 3.2 Ensure that all of your external cables, cords, and devices are compatible with the USB data standard. It’s just simple matching: if you get a port with USB 3.2, your cable and connected device must also support 3.2.
Be prepared: All this is going to be changed when USB4 arrives , with a brand-new name, the latest speeds (up to an amazing 40Gbps), and an attempt to make all these confusing standard names much simpler. USB4 will also be backwards compatible with some older USB ports, so when you see it you may be able to start using it right away.
Editors' Recommendations Surface Laptop Go 3 vs. Surface Pro 7+: is it an upgrade? What is Thunderbolt 5? USB-C charging laptops: Here’s what you need to know Razer quadruples the Blade 14’s USB speed with a simple software update This gadget could turn your M1 Mac into a productivity beast Computing If you’ve been happily using iCloud or Google Drive for cloud storage, you probably haven’t been too concerned about exactly what type of cloud data management you’re using. But when you start to consider more specific cloud applications to solve problems for organizations or find the best ways to secure data, the type of cloud quickly becomes very important.
The two common options to consider are public or private clouds. The difference isn’t very complicated, but how those clouds can be used may grow rather complex. Let’s take a closer look so you know what to expect.
What is a public cloud? A public cloud is an outward-facing cloud platform that’s managed by a data company but primarily intended for public use by customers. It tends to be free or low-cost to use and is designed to hold and transfer a variety of data files. This type of cloud is focused on the data typically used and shared by most consumers, like photos or documents. It can generally be accessed at any time and in any place. If you have a favorite cloud app on your phone to store your files so you can access them from different devices, then it’s probably a public cloud.
Computing The Universal Serial Bus, or USB connector has been a mainstay of a wide range of devices for years, though the actual port used and cable required could vary dramatically. USB4 is changing that by adopting many of the best features of Intel's Thunderbolt 3 standard. USB4 is faster, better equipped, and perhaps even more standardized across the industry than every type of USB that came before it.
Availability USB4 was announced in March 2019, with a rough outline of its features and capabilities, and since then we've gotten a few USB4-powered devices like docking stations and high data transfer cables. Although we're sure there will be a large and vibrant USB4 ecosystem in the future, at the moment there are not a ton of products you can buy that use the new technology.
Of course, to take advantage of USB4 devices, you'll need a computer that has USB4, and at the moment the only computers that support USB4 are modern Apple desktops and laptops, as well as some Intel-based laptops and desktop motherboards. Some devices won't mention support for USB4 but will mention Thunderbolt 4. If a port supports Thunderbolt 4, that means it's USB4, but not all USB4 ports are Thunderbolt 4 ports.
Computing The first USB Type-C cables capable of providing huge amounts of power are here: Small retailer Club 3D launched three new cables that can each deliver up to 240 watts of power.
Such a power draw means that you should be able to charge most laptops with the new 240W USB-C cable, marking a huge change from the current maximum capabilities of this technology.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
