Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides What is a CPU? Here’s everything you need to know By Jon Martindale Close If you’re just learning about the world of computers and electronics, the terminology used to refer to different parts can be confusing. One component term you may have encountered is “CPU,” which stands for “ central processing unit.
” What makes a CPU a CPU? What does a CPU actually do? Cores, clocks, and costs How important is the CPU? CPUs reside in almost all devices you own, whether it’s a smartwatch, a computer, or a thermostat. They are responsible for processing and executing instructions and act as the brains of your devices. Here, we explain how CPUs interact with other parts of your devices and what makes them so integral to the computing process.
What makes a CPU a CPU? Jacob Roach / DigitalTrends The CPU is the core component that defines a computing device, and while it is of critical importance, the CPU can only function alongside other hardware. The silicon chip sits in a special socket located on the main circuit board (motherboard or mainboard) inside the device. It is separate from the memory, which is where information is temporarily stored. It is also separate from the graphics card or graphics chip, which renders the video and 3D graphics that are displayed on your screen.
Is there a Surfshark free trial? What you need to know These are the best ultrawide monitors you buy in 2023 The best processors in 2023: AMD and Intel CPUs duke it out CPUs are made by arranging billions of microscopic transistors onto a single computer chip. These transistors enable the CPU to perform the computations necessary for executing programs stored in your system’s memory. Functioning as tiny switches, they alternate between on and off states, conveying the binary ones and zeros that underlie all your actions on the device, whether it’s watching videos or composing an email.
One of the most common advancements in CPU technology is in making those transistors smaller and smaller. That has resulted in the improvement in CPU speeds over the decades, often referred to as Moore’s Law.
In the context of modern devices, a desktop or laptop has a dedicated CPU that performs many processing functions for the system. Mobile devices and some tablets instead utilize a system on a chip (SoC) which is a chip that packages the CPU alongside other components. Intel and AMD both offer CPUs with graphics chips and memory stored on them, too, meaning they can do more than just standard CPU functions.
What does a CPU actually do? Narumon Bowonkitwanchai/Getty Images / Getty At its core, a CPU takes instructions from a program or application and performs a calculation. This process breaks down into three key stages: fetch, decode and execute. A CPU fetches the instruction from RAM, decodes what the instruction actually is, and then executes the instruction using relevant parts of the CPU.
The executed instruction, or calculation, can involve basic arithmetic, comparing numbers, performing a function, or moving numbers around in memory. Since everything in a computing device is represented by numbers, you can think of the CPU as a calculator that runs incredibly fast. The resulting workload might start up Windows, display a YouTube video, or calculate compound interest in a spreadsheet.
In modern systems, the CPU acts like the ringmaster at the circus by feeding data to specialized hardware as it is required. For example, the CPU needs to tell the graphics card to show an explosion because you shot a fuel drum in a game or tell the solid-state drive to transfer an Office document to the system’s RAM for quicker access.
Cores, clocks, and costs Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Originally, CPUs had a single processing core. Today’s modern CPU consists of multiple cores that allow it to perform multiple instructions at once, effectively cramming several CPUs on a single chip. Entry-level processors today have between two and four cores, while six to eight cores is more mainstream in gaming devices and PCs. High-end models can have anywhere up to 32 cores, and professional hardware can go beyond that.
Many processors also employ a technology called simultaneous multithreading. Imagine a single physical CPU core that can perform two lines of execution (threads) at once, thereby appearing as two “logical” cores on the operating system end. These virtual cores aren’t as powerful as physical cores because they share the same resources, but overall, they can help improve the CPU’s multitasking performance when running compatible software.
Clock speed is prominently advertised when you are looking at CPUs. This is the “gigahertz” (GHz) figure that effectively denotes how many instructions a CPU can handle per second, but that’s not the whole picture regarding performance. Clock speed mostly comes into play when comparing CPUs from the same product family or generation. When all else is the same, a faster clock speed means a faster processor. However, a 3GHz processor from 2010 will deliver less work than a 2GHz processor from 2020, due to the newer model’s more advanced underlying silicon.
How much should you pay for a CPU? We have several guides to give you some suggestions for the best CPUs you can buy. For a general outline, however, unless you’re a hardcore gamer or someone looking to edit videos, you don’t need to spend more than $200 to $300. You can help keep the cost down by avoiding the latest hardware and instead sticking to a recent generation of CPU.
For Intel CPUs, that means 12th, or 13th-generation chips. You can determine their generation by the product name. For instance, the Core i7-10700K is an older 10th-generation chip, while the Core i5-13600K is a newer 13th-generation chip.
AMD does something similar with its Ryzen CPUs: The Ryzen 9 3950X is a 3rd-generation chip, while the Ryzen 7 5700X is the fourth-generation CPU based on the company’s Zen 3 architecture. Ryzen 4000 was released as a laptop chip line and in APU form with very limited availability on desktops through system builders. With that in mind, it’s arguable whether the Ryzen 7000 is (technically) the fifth generation of AMD Ryzen CPU, but it’s the latest, and most recently, AMD has unified its laptop, APU, and desktop platforms under the Ryzen 7000 banner.
How important is the CPU? These days, your CPU isn’t as important for overall system performance as it once was, but it still plays a major role in the response and speed of your computing device, and without one, it wouldn’t work at all. Gamers will generally find a benefit from higher clock speeds, while more serious work such as CAD and video editing will see an improvement from a higher CPU core count.
You should bear in mind that your CPU is part of a system, so you want to be sure you have enough RAM and have fast storage that can feed data to your CPU. Perhaps the largest question mark will hang over your graphics card as you generally require some balance within your PC, both in terms of performance and cost.
Now that you understand the role of a CPU, you are in a better position to make an educated choice about your computing hardware. Use this guide to learn more about the best chips from AMD and Intel.
Editors' Recommendations CPU owners are suing Intel. Here’s the surprising reason why The best tablets in 2023: top 11 tablets you can buy now What is NVMe? Everything you need to know about high-speed storage The best Intel processors for 2023 AMD FSR 3: everything you need to know about Fluid Motion Frames Intel Computing Display Stream Compression (DSC) is a compression algorithm that lets monitors and TVs display resolutions and refresh rates that they wouldn't be otherwise capable of handling. It improves the capabilities of HDMI and DisplayPort cables, letting them too, serve displays that are higher resolution and refresh rate than they are natively capable of doing. DSC does all this without almost anyone knowing. You've probably had it enabled without realizing it.
That's because DSC is a visually lossless compression format. While not mathematically lossless, you'd be very hard-pressed to see any kind of difference with DSC enabled. That's a good thing because it means that your 4K 240Hz monitor can handle all that data it needs without compromising on quality.
Computing Google is changing up Chromebooks in a big way. The new Chromebook Plus level of devices promises double of everything -- twice the performance, twice the storage, and twice the memory, all backed up by Google AI.
If you follow Chromebooks, this is the mysterious Chromebook X we learned about earlier this year. It's a set of specifications to take Chromebooks into the next generation, and they're based around bringing some of the weaker Chromebook closer to the level of the best laptops.
Computing ChatGPT has continued to dazzle the internet with AI-generated content, morphing from a novel chatbot into a piece of technology that is driving the next era of innovation. No tech product in recent memory has sparked as much interest, controversy, fear, and excitement.
If you're just now catching on, it'd be fair to wonder what the fuss is all about. You can try it out for yourself for free (or use the official free iOS app), but here's the detailed guide you've been looking for -- whether you're worried about an AI apocalypse or are just looking for an intro guide to the app.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
