Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides What is RAM? Here’s everything you need to know By Jon Martindale Close Random-access memory, or RAM, is an essential component in everything from desktop computers to smartphones. RAM is a high-speed, short-term storage solution that gives applications, games, and the operating system itself, quick access to important information. That saves it the time of retrieving the data from much slower storage, like hard drives and SSDs.
What is RAM, and what does it do? What are the different types of RAM? How much RAM do you need? Do you need fast RAM? What are RAM channels? Can you get more RAM without upgrading? How to install RAM? Like other components in your devices, though, there are many different types of RAM. RAM speed can be affected by its type, the model, or its generation, and its price can vary wildly depending on the capacity you’re buying, and what device it’s going into.
If this is all semantics and you need to know how to install some RAM or want to find out how much RAM you need , we have guides for that, too.
Bill Roberson/Digital Trends What is RAM, and what does it do? RAM is essentially a device’s short-term memory. It reads information that an application or operating system might need in the near future and stores it temporarily for quick access by the CPU, graphics card, or any other component that might need it. That information stays in the RAM, readily accessible, until you shut down the program or restart your device. Then the RAM is cleared and ready to receive new, relevant data.
What is NVMe? Everything you need to know about high-speed storage What is Display Stream Compression? Everything you need to know about DSC What is a CPU? Here’s everything you need to know Like the cache on a CPU, RAM makes it so that other components don’t have to fetch data from the device’s slower storage — like a hard drive or even a solid-state drive (SSD) — every time you request a new browser tab or load a new enemy to shoot. As fast as modern storage is compared to drives of years gone by, they’re still far slower than RAM. However, those storage components are necessary because they provide the longer-term storage of that data when the RAM is no longer powered.
What are the different types of RAM? “RAM” or “memory” typically refers to dynamic random access memory (DRAM), or more accurately for modern systems, synchronous dynamic random access memory ( SDRAM ). The terminology doesn’t matter beyond technicalities, but it’s useful to know that the terms are relatively interchangeable colloquially.
The most common type of desktop RAM sold today is DDR4, though older systems may use DDR3 or even DDR2, and the latest systems use DDR5.
 The numbers denote the RAM’s generation, with each successive generation offering faster speeds through greater bandwidth — a higher megatransfers per second rating. Each generation also has physical changes and often uses less power due to improved efficiency, so they are not interchangeable.
Mobile platforms, like laptops, tablets, and smartphones, use Low-Power Double Data Rate (LPDDR) memory and are also available in various generations, including LPDDR4, and the most recent, LPDDR5X. They offer roughly comparable performance to desktop-grade DDR memory, though not quite as fast as the best DDR5 RAM.
 They do, however, require less power to operate, helping to save on battery life. They also come in different shapes and sizes, such as being soldered directly onto the motherboard, or SODIMM (Small Outline Dual In-line Memory Module) which is still a replaceable stick, but is more compact than the DIMM-style memory sticks used on desktop PCs.
Another common term, especially in the video game space, is VRAM (video RAM). Although once a stand-alone piece of technology, VRAM is currently used to denote dedicated memory on the graphics card. For game consoles, it can also reference system memory, but in either case, it has to do with memory reserved exclusively for the GPU.
Most modern graphics cards, like AMD’s new RX 7000-series , use GDDR6, but Nvidia has exclusive use of GDDR6X RAM, which can be found in its RTX 3000 and RTX 40-series graphics cards.
The next generation of video memory will be GDDR7 , but that is still in the development phase.
How much RAM do you need? Image used with permission by copyright holder Operating systems, games, and applications, all need a set amount of RAM to run, and even more to run well, so it’s important to make sure you have enough RAM.
 This is typically between four gigabytes (GB) and 16GB, though any modern PC running Windows shouldn’t really have any less than 8GB. Modern gaming PCs mostly use 16GB, though some modern AAA games can benefit from 32GB. Anyone looking to do a lot of video editing, or heavy multi-tasking might want 32GB or even more.
Having more than the minimum amount of RAM is essential. A PC runs not only the current application but also other services and tasks in the background. However, having massive amounts of system memory doesn’t necessarily make a PC run faster, and once you have enough, it’s better to have faster memory, than simply more of it.
Do you need fast RAM? Like a CPU, RAM has its clock speed, which effectively controls how much data it can handle per second when combined with a few other factors. The memory’s total speed is referred to as bandwidth and measured in megatransfers per second, but traditionally, you’ll see memory marketed with speeds in megahertz (MHz).
Typical DDR4 memory runs between 2,133MHz and 3,000MHz, but some can run upwards of 4,866MHz for the fastest kits available , and DDR5 memory can go anywhere up to 8,000MHz in some kits. You’ll see these marketed as DDR4-2133 or similar, sometimes with the confusing “PC” label. The number following “PC” is simply the MHz speed multiplied by eight and then rounded. For example, you might see it listed as DDR4-2133 PC4-17000.
Timings are another aspect of memory that can impact RAM performance, although they are no longer as important. Typically, timings are listed as several numbers separated by dashes, such as 15-15-15-35 or similar. Each number effectively represents the time between clock cycles, and as memory speed increases, timings increase as well, which increases latency. While that would make performance worse, there is a tipping point where the greater bandwidth of faster memory covers the rise in latency.
When buying memory, timings are only crucial when considering high-performance memory for benchmarking or top-tier gaming. Timings aren’t of real concern to the average consumer.
What are RAM channels? Most memory sticks sold today support dual-channel at the very least, which means there are two lanes (buses) between one memory slot and the CPU’s memory controller on the motherboard. To make sure you’re taking advantage of dual-channel memory, be sure to install the sticks in the correct colored slots on the motherboard. Check the manual if you need help picking the right slot for your motherboard.
High-end RAM kits with three or four modules supporting triple- or quad-channel memory designs on motherboards are available as well, although they are typically reserved for workstations and server systems.
Can you get more RAM without upgrading? Unfortunately, no. While there are plenty of jokes sites that will say you can “download” more RAM, there’s no way to get more memory without installing more of it. That said, if you find yourself frequently running out of memory, you can close down running applications , especially browser tabs, to help free up some memory.
If your PC never feels like it has enough memory, you could also change the startup programs so that fewer apps start up with Windows.
How to install RAM? Now that you know all about RAM, do you feel ready to install some yourself? If not, or you just want some extra help, check out our guides on how to install RAM , and how to build a computer.
Editors' Recommendations Is there a Surfshark free trial? What you need to know AMD FSR 3: everything you need to know about Fluid Motion Frames AMD FSR (FidelityFX Super Resolution): everything you need to know Thunderbolt 4: everything you need to know DDR5 vs. DDR4 RAM: Is DDR5 worth it? Gaming Mobile Computing The mini-ITX platform is more popular today than ever. Its compact sizing with high-performance potential makes it great for gamers, content creators, and enthusiasts who seek a small yet capable system. In this guide, we will shed some light and explain everything that you need to know about mini-ITX and how you might want to go about building or buying one in the future.
What is mini-ITX? Mini-ITX is a small form factor (SFF) standard for motherboards and computer cases that was developed by VIA Technologies in 2001. Its main purpose was to allow for compact and space-efficient computer systems while retaining the basic functionality of a standard desktop computer.
The mini-ITX platform is smaller than the more common ATX and micro-ATX standards. Most commonly used mini-ITX motherboards measure 170mm x 170mm (6.7 inches x 6.7 inches) and typically feature a single PCIe expansion slot, two RAM slots, and a variety of I/O ports for USB, SATA, audio, and networking. Despite their small size, mini-ITX motherboards are capable of supporting full-sized CPUs, memory, and storage devices, thus making them suitable for a wide range of computing tasks.
Computing OpenAI's GPT-4 language model is considered by most to be the most advanced language model used to power modern artificial intelligences (AI). It's used in the ChatGPT chatbot to great effect, and other AIs in similar ways. But that's not the end of its development. As with GPT-3.5, a GPT-4.5 language model may well launch before we see a true next-generation GPT-5.
Here's everything we know about GPT-4.5 so far.
Computing Twitter is now called X, and it's causing some commotion. Since launching 17 years ago (nearly to the date at the time of writing), Twitter has been adorned with a blue bird. Now, it's a rather cryptic X brought on by the new owner of the social media platform, Elon Musk. Even though elements of the old Twitter remain, the iOS and Android apps have switched over to the new name, including the transition from "tweets" to "posts." How did we get here? We've rounded up the order of events that took place leading to Twitter's massive rebrand to X, as well as how that relates to Elon Musk's entrepreneurial history and the legal troubles that could stem from the new name.
Why is Twitter called X now? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
