Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Why 2021 was a turning point for the quality of laptop displays By Mark Coppock Close Laptops with bright, colorful, and accurate screens are no longer a luxury.
OLED is everywhere It’s not just OLED Even IPS has taken a step forward There’s still work to be done While laptop displays have been improving for several years now, with new technologies like OLED panels becoming increasingly popular, 2021 saw a ramp-up in quality like none in recent memory.
It’s not just about fancy new panel technology, either. Even common IPS displays are improving, something I’ve noticed on recent laptops that I’ve reviewed and that makes lower-quality displays stand out even more.
HP’s new Envy x360 14 looks like a killer value for what you get Why Windows on ARM still couldn’t catch up this year Why gaming laptops need better displays — not more performance OLED is everywhere Image used with permission by copyright holder The Asus ZenBook 13 OLED brought OLED technology to an extremely well-made and fast laptop for under $1,000, albeit in just a 16:9 Full HD (1,920 x 1,080) resolution. No longer was OLED only for premium laptops, and both productivity and creative workers had a laptop they could use to get their work done without breaking the bank.
Since then, Asus has introduced the first Windows tablet with an OLED display, the VivoBook 13 Slate , and a slew of other OLED-enabled laptops, including the ZenBook 14X OLED.
 Not to be outdone, Lenovo released the $500 IdeaPad Duet 5 Chromebook that brought OLED to an affordable Chrome OS tablet. And Dell introduced new OLED versions of the XPS 13 and XPS 15, both of which utilize 16:10 displays in a 3.5K (3,456 x 2,160) resolution. OLED displays (outside of the ZenBook 13) had previously been 4K only.
In every case, OLED displays provide extremely wide colors, 95% of AdobeRGB or higher, and 100% of sRGB, with astronomical contrast ratios that produce inky blacks. They’re the best displays you can buy for creative work, and they take media consumption to an entirely different level thanks to laptops with Dolby Vision high dynamic range (HDR) support. OLED changed the game in laptop displays, and in 2021, they became more available and more affordable than ever before.
It’s not just OLED Image used with permission by copyright holder Samsung’s QLED technology made its way to laptops in 2020, so that’s not a 2021 innovation. But there are now more QLED laptops available than ever, and it’s another option for creative types thanks to wide and accurate colors and deep contrast. We’re not sure how QLED will compete with OLED in upcoming laptops, but we don’t expect it to disappear.
Apple wasn’t going to be left out, either. It brought its Liquid Retina XDR mini-LED displays to the new MacBook Pro 14 and MacBook Pro 16 , offering extreme brightness, colors that rival OLED and QLED, and the same level of deep contrast. MacBooks always had great displays for creative professionals, but the new display technology just made them better.
Another innovation that made substantial headway in 2021 was higher refresh rates on non-gaming laptops. Sure, you’ve been able to buy gaming machines with higher than the old-school 60Hz for years (although even gaming laptops have higher refresh rates than ever). But now, you can select from a growing number of laptops that have 90Hz or 120Hz refresh rates, and thus enjoy smoother animations and less motion blur when moving windows and other on-screen objects around.
Microsoft’s Surface Pro 8 and Surface Laptop Studio run at 120Hz, as do the new MacBooks, while the Lenovo IdeaPad Slim 7i Pro offers a 90Hz refresh rate — and that’s just a small sample of machines.
I’d be remiss if I were to leave out the move toward taller displays, which hit its stride in 2021. Today, it seems odd to review a laptop with a 16:9 display rather than 16:10 or 3:2. And it’s not just odd; it’s downright disappointing. Taller displays are so much more comfortable to use for everything but consuming media, which works just fine with some letterboxing at the top and bottom. I’ll be happy when I never review another 16:9 laptop, and I think that day’s arriving sooner rather than later.
Even IPS has taken a step forward Mark Coppock/Digital Trends A more subtle change that I’ve noticed in several recent reviews is that even IPS displays have moved forward in quality. There was a time when there were three levels of IPS display quality. Low-end displays offered narrower colors at around 50% of AdobeRGB and 65% of sRGB, with color accuracy at a DeltaE of 2.0 or more. Contrast ratios came in at well under the 1,000:1 that we consider good enough for blacks to be true black and not gray. Average premium displays were at around 72% of AdobeRGB and 95% of sRGB, with accuracy between 1.0 and 2.0 and contrast closer to 1,000:1. And then high-quality displays aimed at creative professionals came in at 90% of AdobeRGB or more and 100% of sRGB, with color accuracy of less than 1.0 (where it’s considered excellent) and contrast of 1,250:1 or better. For the most part, display quality tracked with laptop price.
Now, I’m seeing more displays with between 80% and 90% of AdobeRGB and 100% sRGB, with less than 1.0 color accuracy (or very close to it) and contrast at greater than 1,000:1. Again, it’s a subtle shift, but those displays are good enough for creative work, and they tend to be offered on less expensive laptops. You no longer must shell out the cash for a 4K display on a Dell XPS 15 , for example, as you can get this kind of performance from a lower-priced IPS panel. You can spend hundreds less and get a high-res 2.8K (2,880 x 1,800), 16:10 IPS display with good enough colors and contrast for creative tasks, and an even better experience for productivity workflows.
I also see the “premium” tier of laptop display showing up on more midrange machines. There’s the Asus ZenBook 13 OLED, of course, that has the best display at under $1,000.
HP’s Pavilion Aero 13 is another midrange laptop with a premium-level display. Perhaps most importantly, it’s rare that a midrange or higher laptop has an inferior display, with Samsung’s Galaxy Book being one example.
There’s still work to be done I suspect, and hope, that we’ll continue to see more midrange and even budget laptops with higher-quality displays. Premium laptop displays will continue to get better, with wider and more accurate colors and higher contrast that push them into creator territory. And the best technologies like OLED, QLED, and mini-LED will find their way into more laptops and more affordable options. But no matter how it turns out, 2021 was a year when the laptop display got better, and it was a refreshing sight.
Editors' Recommendations This is the only laptop to send your kid to college with CES 2023 is a turning point for the dilemma between TVs and gaming monitors Laptop displays got way better this year, and I can prove it Why DisplayPort 2.1 could become a big deal for PC gaming in 2023 This portable touchscreen perches on your laptop’s display Features Laptops Computing At the Lenovo Tech World '22 event held October 18, Lenovo teased a new ThinkPad laptop concept with a vertically expanding screen, an idea that could literally change the way we see and use our laptops in the future.
Expanding on its ThinkPad X1 Fold range of folding PCs, Lenovo shared a ThinkPad concept that rolls its screen from 12 inches to 16 inches vertically. The objective and technology behind it is very similar to foldable smartphones that are all the rage these days, allowing the user to change the form factor of the display based on their needs, while the content on the display dynamically adjusts along with it.
Computing The Video Electronics Standards Association (VESA) today announced the release of DisplayPort 2.1. It brings a few improvements over DisplayPort 2.0, such as tighter compliance with USB Type-C and USB4 PHY specifications, improved connectivity through DisplayPort tunneling over USB4, and longer cable lengths while maintaining high throughput.
Hot off the heels of DisplayPlay 2.0 released earlier this year, DisplayPort 2.1 facilitates greater PHY toward USB Type-C and USB4 PHY specifications. The new version has also added a DisplayPort bandwidth management feature that allows DisplayPort tunneling to work together with other I/O traffic over USB4 with great efficiency.
Computing The new Dragonfly Folio G3 is HP's third attempt at this unique 2-in-1 design, which uses a "leatherlike" folio case (as HP puts it) to transform it into different modes.
The Dragonfly Folio G3 can sit upright like your everyday normal laptop, but when you need to be more immersed in your screen, you can pull it forward. It will cover up the keyboard and leave you with only the screen and the trackpad. Or you can pull the screen all the way forward and turn the entire machine into a tablet, albeit a rather thick one.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
