Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Mobile Reviews Magic Keyboard for iPad Pro Review: The best tablet becomes a laptop — almost By Andy Boxall Close $299.00 Tactile, precise typing experience Responsive trackpad Perfectly weighted for desk or lap use Genuinely increases productivity on iPad Pro An expensive accessory Screen angle adjustment is limited These words are being written to you on a Magic Keyboard attached to an iPad Pro. It’s the third full product review I’ve written using Apple’s new keyboard accessory for the iPad Pro (2020) , totaling at least 7,000 words, since it arrived about a week ago. I’m also, at this moment, typing with the iPad Pro and Magic Keyboard on my lap, rather than at my desk.
Design Keyboard Trackpad Connectivity Price and availability Our take Is there a better alternative? How long will it last? Should you buy one? Does all this mean that the iPad Pro has found the accessory that really can turn it into a laptop alternative? While that may still be a stretch, it has certainly never been closer. I’ve lived with the iPad Pro with and without the Magic Keyboard for several weeks now, and can confidently say this keyboard rises above any prior competitor.
Best tablet deals: Save on iPad, Galaxy Tab, Fire tablet, and more Best iPad deals: Save on 10.2-inch iPad, iPad Pro, and more The best iPhone 15 Pro cases in 2023: our 14 favorites Here’s what it’s like, and if you haven’t decided on whether to buy a new iPad Pro yet, take a look at our review of the iPad Pro (2020).
Design The weight of the Magic Keyboard for the iPad Pro strikes you the second it arrives. Even in the box, it’s a heavy thing, and once unpacked is actually heavier than the iPad Pro itself. I’ve been using the 11-inch version with the 11-inch iPad Pro, and together they weigh 2.34 pounds, which is only a hair lighter than the 2020 13-inch MacBook Air. Don’t buy this combination if you’re wanting to save weight in your bag, because it won’t really do that.
Andy Boxall / Digital Trends This heft gives you reassurance. It doesn’t feel flimsy in any way, which makes it well-suited for the lap. There’s no annoying flex to slow down your typing, and the heavily dampened hinge keeps the tablet securely in the position you choose. With weight comes the air of quality, and while that wouldn’t be welcome in the iPad Pro itself, it is in the keyboard. Closed, the package is about 19mm thick, while the 2020 MacBook Air comes in at 21mm thick.
Because of current restrictions, I’ve not had the chance to carry the iPad Pro and Magic Keyboard around in my bag much, so I can’t comment on its suitability as a commuting tool, but I have no reason to doubt it will be a convenient companion. What I do know is the material the keyboard case is made out of — a pleasingly tactile, soft-touch plastic — will pick up all the lint, dust, and crumbs at the bottom of your bag. It already picks up enough muck and fingerprints just by sitting at home, and will inevitably get more grubby when it is lugged around.
Andy Boxall/DigitalTrends.com The Magic Keyboard is covered in magnets. A set on the upper half holds the iPad Pro in place, and despite not covering the entire back of the tablet, it does so with limpet-like gusto. There is absolutely no danger of it slipping or falling off, even with excessive shaking. Opening the case is easy, and the upper panel quickly locks itself into place. You then set the viewing angle up to 130 degrees.
Again, once set, it’s not going anywhere, but I did find I wanted it to go just a little further back for a more dramatic viewing angle than it could accommodate. There’s also no way to use the iPad Pro “on its own” with the Magic Keyboard case attached. It doesn’t fold around on itself to become a 2-in-1 style device. If you want to do tablet-y things, you have to remove it from the case first. The Magic Keyboard is designed to turn the iPad Pro into something as close to a laptop as possible, and it doesn’t deviate from that at all.
Andy Boxall/DigitalTrends.com The Magic Keyboard’s floating design looks cool, it all holds together like it’s one cohesive product rather than a hybrid of two. The solid body is also perfectly weighted and balanced for use in all seated situations. It’s an excellent product, and to consider it a lowly accessory is a disservice to the work that has gone into getting all this exactly right.
Keyboard Whether on your lap or on your desk, the Magic Keyboard is a delight to type on. The keys have 1mm of travel, and if that doesn’t mean much to you, I’ll say that all you need to know is they feel great. I managed to miss Apple’s keyboard wilderness years , and the Magic Keyboard types like an evolution of the keyboard on my beloved 2014 11-inch MacBook Air. There was no period of adjustment needed, I just sat down and typed at my full speed immediately.
Andy Boxall/DigitalTrends.com This is an essential part of the Magic Keyboard-equipped iPad Pro fitting into your work life. I’m a “heavy typer,” and did find the keyboard was quite loud, but no more so than my MacBook Air. My wrists rest on the edge of the case, which is shaped to not dig in or cause fatigue. The overall size is well-judged, the keys are solid and responsive, and everything falls neatly to your fingers.
My entire Galaxy S20 review was written on the iPad Pro with the Magic Keyboard. I had a deadline to meet, so completing it on a new device was a risk. I met the deadline, and I don’t think I would have worked any faster on my MacBook Air or desktop machine. Only once did I want to switch, and that was to edit and upload photos, just because I was forced to learn a new workflow on the iPad Pro. I didn’t cave though, and the iPad Pro worked brilliantly.
Only a few small irritations showed up when typing for work on the Magic Keyboard. The first is the placement of the alternate language button, which is in the bottom left corner. I lost count of the times I switched to a Japanese keyboard configuration instead of hitting the shift key with my little finger. The little finger on my right hand also caused me some problems. Sometimes it extends out when I type, and at times I would accidentally tap the third-suggested word in Pages on the screen, especially when it was set at its most extreme angle.
Andy Boxall/DigitalTrends.com Finally, the arrow keys are quite small and awkward to press quickly, and there is no function key row either. The way we type is often very individual, so the irritations I had may not affect anyone else, and are relatively minor. I wasn’t bothered by the lack of function keys for volume or brightness, as both are accessible through iPadOS or on the tablet body itself, but traditionalists may find this annoying. Finally, I did encounter some problems with the keyboard not working after switching apps, forcing me to close the app to get it working again. It didn’t happen all the time, and will likely be fixed in a future software update.
Andy Boxall/DigitalTrends.com The Magic Keyboard’s keys are backlit, and an ambient light sensor detects when they should be on or off. It’s quite sensitive. On a gloomy day, it lit them up in my living room when I don’t think they were needed. On brighter days, it did disable the backlight to avoid extra strain on the battery. The last keyboard I used with an iPad was the Apple keyboard case for the first-generation iPad Pro, and the Magic Keyboard is miles ahead in feel, usability, precision, comfort, and technology. Most importantly, I haven’t missed typing on my MacBook Air at all, and have not felt the need to return to it.
Trackpad The Magic Keyboard’s trackpad is a headline-grabber, but has it transformed the way you interact with the iPad Pro? No, and that’s really by design. Apple said it wanted the trackpad to augment the iPad Pro’s touch-first operation, and it does exactly that. The 100mm x 50mm pad may not sound very big, but it’s well-positioned and has the right level of sensitivity for fast use. I have not found myself using it that often, but when I do, it speeds up my workflow a lot.
Andy Boxall/DigitalTrends.com Example? I struggle with positioning the cursor and selecting text quickly and correctly on iOS, and that issue is repeated on iPadOS. When writing and editing long pieces of text, this can slow me down a lot. The trackpad removes all need to touch the screen, and selecting, copying, pasting, and deleting text in Pages takes no longer than it does on my laptop. The keyboard shortcuts are all in place too, so my usual laptop workflow is repeated on the Magic Keyboard.
It requires a click to position the cursor rather than a tap, and the action is consistent across the surface of the pad. The on-screen cursor is an easy-to-spot blob, and anything that can be interacted with is clearly highlighted. I mostly use Pages, and the trackpad integrates very well, but in other apps like Google Docs, some features are missing. You can’t quickly click, select, and highlight text, for example, but only activate the usual iPadOS copy/paste menu. Oddly, you can do this in the Twitter app, though. The Magic Keyboard is still new, so additional functionality may arrive in third-party apps over time.
Andy Boxall/DigitalTrends.com I never relied on just the trackpad, and switched between using it and the touchscreen to navigate and perform certain functions, just like with a touchscreen laptop. However, because the screen is so close to your hands and the keyboard footprint relatively small, the reach is often minimal, and therefore feels faster than working on a large laptop. Although the trackpad captured the most interest on the Magic Keyboard at first, it’s just one small, albeit integral, part of what makes the product so good overall.
Connectivity The Magic Keyboard is powered by the iPad Pro and doesn’t require charging separately. It has a single USB Type-C connector hidden in the end of the main hinge, which works as a power pass-through for charging. This leaves the iPad Pro’s USB Type-C free so you can attach a USB hub or external drive, but you can’t do the same on the Magic Keyboard’s connector. Shame.
Andy Boxall/DigitalTrends.com I used a USB hub to extract all the photos from an SD memory card for my Samsung Galaxy S20 review, transferring them to the iPad Pro for editing and upload. I used various apps during the process, and it was seamless and fast. I encountered no problems with the USB Type-C hub at this time, but because of the short cable and the fact it had to be connected to the tablet, it didn’t lay flat on the table. I’d also be concerned about it getting knocked due to the way it sticks out, something that I wouldn’t worry about it if was able to be connected to the USB socket on the keyboard.
Andy Boxall/DigitalTrends.com It would have also been nice if Apple had included an extra-long USB charging cable with the Magic Keyboard. Instead, it decided not to include a cable at all. The one included with the tablet itself is short and unsuited to situations where a plug may not be near where you’re working. Yes, the battery life is long, but it’s not infinite. Considering the cost of the keyboard, this is pretty tight, even by Apple’s standards.
Price and availability The Magic Keyboard costs $300 for the 11-inch model and $350 for the 12.9-inch version. You can buy it through Apple’s own store and various retailers too. It’s compatible with both the current 2020 iPad Pro tablet and the 2018 iPad Pro.
 If you own a 2018 iPad Pro, there is little reason to upgrade your tablet yet, so this is great news for those who only recently purchased the previous model.
Andy Boxall/DigitalTrends.com You need an iPad Pro to go along with your Magic Keyboard, so as a package, you’ll pay at least $1,100 for the 11-inch iPad Pro and Magic Keyboard, and at least $1,350 for the 12.9-inch model. For comparison, a new 2020 MacBook Air starts at $1,000.
Our take The hardware combination of the iPad Pro with the Magic Keyboard makes it an effective laptop alternative, but the software will still be a barrier to those with more complex work needs. It does come closer than ever before to being the real, complete deal. If your work needs are relatively basic like mine, you won’t feel the need to grab your laptop often, if at all.
However, the slight lack of versatility with the keyboard case fitted and the initial high price may mean a laptop works out to be the more preferable device for you personally. Think hard about how you’ll use the iPad Pro every day, because at this price, a laptop may suit your needs better for less.
Is there a better alternative? The most logical alternative is a new $1,000 MacBook Air.
 A laptop does everything the iPad Pro/Magic Keyboard can do, plus plenty more. It also avoids some of the versatility problems by often having more ports, a longer charging cable included, and compatibility with almost all file types. Even the price isn’t that much different, and if you’re only in the position to buy one out of the two, the MacBook Air may be the better long-term purchase depending on your work plans.
Another alternative would be to find a 2018 iPad Pro and buy one of those to go with the Magic Keyboard. It’ll save you a little money and operate in exactly the same way. Outsider alternatives that may fit better with your needs include the $400-plus Microsoft Surface Go , or the $750-plus Surface Pro 7 , or even Chromebooks like the $1,000 Samsung Galaxy Chromebook , with its 2-in-1 design, and the $650 Google Pixelbook Go.
The laptop is the only alternative to tick all the boxes though, and the other alternatives often have the same or greater compromises to overcome than the iPad Pro and the Magic Keyboard combination.
How long will it last? The iPad Pro will last you three to five years easily, or even longer depending on what you use it for, and adding the Magic Keyboard only increases its longevity. However, the keyboard doesn’t have any water-resistance rating or special level of durability, so you’ll want to be careful not to spill anything on it or drop it. A large bill may await if you’re careless.
Should you buy one? Yes. With the Magic Keyboard, the iPad Pro comes closer than ever before to fulfilling its promise as a laptop alternative.
Editors' Recommendations The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 The best iPhone 15 Pro Max cases in 2023: the 20 best ones Apple may launch new iPads soon, and you should be excited The best iPads in 2023: the 5 best ones you should buy Best refurbished iPad deals: Get an iPad with warranty for $116 Apple Computing Apple Apple iPad iPhone and iPad Reviews Product Reviews Tablet Reviews Mobile The Apple iPhone 15 Pro Max has become the star of Apple's new iPhone lineup. While the basic iPhone range is the one getting the major upgrades this year, there's a lot to set the Pro Max aside from the rest. It's the largest and most powerful iPhone you can buy, and it's also the only iPhone equipped with Apple's new periscope zoom lens, and is capable of a 5x optical zoom. If you're looking for the biggest, most powerful, most capable iPhone money can buy, it's the iPhone 15 Pro Max.
But though it's powerful, it's doesn't have durability to match. Apple's Ceramic Shield is strong, yes, but it won't help your precious phone if it drops onto concrete, or an unforgiving hardwood floor. A cracked or broken display is the sort of damage that sends shivers down a phone owner's spine, and if that describes you, you'll want to take whatever steps you can to keep your phone safe. A good, solid screen protector can help to save your new phone from scraches, dirt, even cracks and breakages. Here are the best Apple iPhone 15 Pro Max screen protectors you can buy, with options for all needs and budgets.
Mobile You, like many others, just ordered the new iPhone 15 Pro and you’re eagerly awaiting its arrival. Congrats! There’s a lot to love about the iPhone 15 Pro, from the sleek and lightweight titanium material to the Action button, as well as USB-C charging so you can finally ditch that Lightning cable. And it’s all powered with the blazingly fast A17 Pro chip and 8GB RAM.
Though the titanium material means it’s lighter and more durable, the front is still made of glass, though Apple has its Ceramic Shield coating. But sometimes that isn’t enough, and you want to go the extra mile and protect the screen even further.
Mobile At the Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC 2023), Apple unveiled the latest version of iPadOS — iPadOS 17, equipped with new features and improvements. The update brings new ways of customizing the lock screen, interacting with widgets, and working on PDFs in the Notes app. Additionally, the Health app is now available on iPads for the first time.
The iPadOS 17 update, while perhaps featuring fewer new or updated features than previous versions, still brings several noteworthy changes and improvements. For instance, the Messages app has received some updates, as has FaceTime. Additionally, Safari and Password have seen some tweaks and improvements. In addition to these changes, the update includes new sticker packs, which can add fun and creativity to your conversations. While it may not be the most extensive update, iPadOS 17 still brings valuable and enjoyable improvements.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
