Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Products AMD vs. Intel: which wins in 2023? By Jon Martindale , Jacob Roach and Matthew Connatser Close Picking between AMD and Intel is one of the main considerations whenever you build a new PC. Like macOS versus Windows , the AMD versus Intel rivalry is one of the greatest debates for PC enthusiasts, and right now, we are in the middle of a neck-and-neck race that’s bound to get even more heated.
AMD vs. Intel: a brief history Desktop processors: a price comparison Which company makes the fastest processors? High-end desktop processors Laptop processors Should you buy AMD or Intel? Now that AMD has launched its Ryzen 7000 CPUs and Intel its 13th-generation Raptor Lake processors , it’s time to revisit the dynamic between AMD and Intel in 2023. Forget the head-to-heads of yesteryear. This is the AMD versus Intel battle as it exists today.
AMD vs. Intel: a brief history Jacob Roach / Digital Trends AMD and Intel are two of the most iconic names in PC building and for good reason. For decades, they’ve been duking it out to offer the fastest, most capable, and most feature-rich processors for gamers, casual web browsers, and professionals alike. They’ve gone back and forth a few times over the years, with AMD launching groundbreaking designs and Intel responding with revolutionary chips of its own, but where Intel maintained a strong grasp on flagship performance between 2005 and 2015, AMD really turned things around with the launch of its Ryzen processors.
Don’t waste your money. These are the best GPUs to buy on a budget AMD’s FSR 3 will finally get a chance to shine in Starfield Intel still thinks ARM is an insignificant threat Debuting in 2017, these chips brought the fight to Intel in a more dramatic fashion than AMD had managed in over a decade, and ever since then, the competition has only increased. Today, Intel and AMD are neck and neck with their latest designs, offering the greatest CPU performance we’ve ever seen in mainstream components. With more cores, higher clocks, and new features, the best processors from Intel and AMD are something to get very excited about.
Desktop processors: a price comparison Jacob Roach / Digital Trends AMD and Intel both have wide ranges of processors that are all well worth considering when it comes to your next upgrade. The latest models are AMD’s Ryzen 7000 and Intel’s 13th-generation Raptor Lake.
 These processors offer up to 24 cores, clock speeds that are approaching 6GHz, and more cache than even some of the fastest CPUs of previous generations could dream of.
Here are all the latest mainstream CPUs from AMD and Intel: AMD Ryzen 9 7950X Ryzen 9 7900X Ryzen 7 7700X Ryzen 5 7600X Cores/threads 16/32 12/24 8/16 6/12 Cache (L2+L3) 80MB 76MB 40MB 38MB Base clock 4.5GHz 4.7GHz 4.5GHz 4.7GHz Boost clock 5.7GHz 5.6GHz 5.4GHz 5.3GHz TDP 170W 170W 105W 105W Price $699 $549 $399 $299 Intel Core i9-13900K Core i7-13700K Core i5-13600K Cores/threads 24 (8+16)/32 16(8+8)/24 14(6+8)/20 Cache (L2+L3) 68MB 54MB 44MB Base clock 3GHz (P-core), 2.2GHz (E-core) 3.4GHz (P-core), 2.5GHz (E-core) 3.5GHz (P-core), 2.6GHZ (E-core) Boost clock Up to 5.8GHz Up to 5.4GHz Up to 5.1GHz TDP 125W/253W 125W/253W 125W/181W Price $590 $410 $320 AMD and Intel also offer credible options with their last-generation Ryzen 5000 and 12th-gen Alder Lake , although those aren’t as fast and don’t support all of the latest features. Both also have very cheap, budget options that can cost as little as $50, but they’re only recommendable for those building the most lightweight of PCs.
Which company makes the fastest processors? Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Intel and AMD have excellent processors for gaming and productivity tasks like video editing and transcoding. While you will find the best bang for your buck around the midrange of both camps (Intel’s Core i5-13600K and AMD’s Ryzen 7700X are particular standouts), the flagship CPUs from both AMD and Intel offer the best performance in gaming and more demanding multithreaded workloads.
The Intel Core i9-13900K has 24 cores (8 + 16) and supports up to 32 threads, while the best AMD CPU uses a more traditional 16-core and 32-thread layout. Both chips are neck and neck in demanding games and trade blows in workplace applications. Where more full cores can be leveraged, the 13900K steals the top spot, while applications that rely on more powerful individual cores lean toward AMD.
Previous Next 1 7 Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder Image used with permission by copyright holder You don’t need to buy the best to get a great CPU for gaming or work, though. At around the $300 mark, Intel’s Core i5-13600K is arguably the best bang-for-the-buck CPU of its generation, offering amazing gaming and productivity performance for a much lower price. AMD can compete on performance, but its 7600X falls behind, and the 7700X is more expensive, so Intel steals the value in the midrange for now.
If you’re focused mainly on gaming, AMD’s new 3D V-Cache processors are worth a look. You can see how they perform in our Ryzen 7 7800X3D review and Ryzen 9 7950X3D review.
There are also last-generation CPUs worth considering, too. AMD’s Ryzen 5000 series are still very capable processors, with its 5800X3D being amazingly competitive with even the latest and greatest in games. It is a dead end for upgrades, though, as the Ryzen 7000 needs a whole new motherboard and memory configuration. The Intel 12th-generation CPUs are great picks, too, with the 12600K being another great standout in the midrange and a clear upgrade path to the 13th generation when you want it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Both companies also offer extensive ranges of budget CPUs, though you’ll be stuck with the previous generation for now. On Intel’s side, there’s the excellent quad-core Core i3-12100F for around $100, while AMD’s six-core Ryzen 5 5500 is about $120 and offers comparable performance in games.
If you’re planning on building a cheap system with no discrete graphics, Intel is probably your best option. Although AMD’s new Ryzen 7000 CPUs do have onboard graphics and AMD’s previous-generation APUs are relatively capable, they aren’t as affordable. You’d spend $150 on a Ryzen 5 5600G or about $120 on an Intel Core i3-12100.
High-end desktop processors Image used with permission by copyright holder If you want to use your PC for heavy video editing at high resolutions or perform intensive video transcoding or CAD work, then you need heaps of processing power across plenty of cores. The best mainstream CPUs are great options for that, but if you need even more than the 24 cores of the 13900K, then you might want to consider a high-end desktop (HEDT) CPU.
Although Intel does have HEDT CPUs, like the 18-core Core i9-10980XE, they’re all severely outdated and easily beaten by the latest high-end mainstream CPUs. Instead, if you need extra cores and CPU power, AMD’s Threadripper Pro range of Ryzen 5000 CPUs is your best bet.
AMD’s Threadripper CPUs offer 24, 32, and even 64 cores with support for double that number of simultaneous threads, all while maintaining clock speeds around the 4.5GHz mark. If your software can make use of all those extra cores, AMD’s Threadripper CPUs offer unparalleled performance outside of obscenely expensive server CPUs, easily outstripping the Intel competition. They also support a greater number of PCI-Express lanes — 128 versus just 44 on the Intel alternatives — making them more suited to larger storage arrays.
You’ll pay thousands for the 64-core 5995WX, but if you can accelerate your work and therefore earn more money by using one of these CPUs, it could be well worth it. However, if you can wait until later in 2023, AMD is set to launch its Ryzen 7000 Threadripper CPUs, which should be vastly more capable. If they’re anything like the Zen4 Epyc server CPUs from AMD, we might see our first 96-core Threadripper CPU.
Laptop processors Digital Trends The laptop market is a different story. Most notebooks you’ll find are based on an Intel processor of various generations and integrated graphics, but AMD CPUs are growing more common, and the latest Ryzen 6000 and upcoming Ryzen 7000 mobile CPUs offer impressive performance and efficiency.
Intel’s latest laptop CPUs are based on its Raptor Lake generation, and you should be able to find laptops equipped with 13th-generation CPUs in pretty much every segment. Alder Lake comes in four flavors: the low-power U models, the middle-power P models, and the high-power H and HX models. Generally speaking, the more power, the faster the CPU, but there are some H and HX CPUs with fewer cores than P CPUs, so performance will depend on the tasks you are throwing their way, as much as the CPUs themselves.
Ryzen mobile CPUs come in different flavors, just like Intel’s: C — low power U — efficient performance HS — efficient high performance H/HX — highest performance Typically, you’ll find U- and P-type CPUs in lighter, thinner laptops with a focus on good battery life, decent integrated graphics, and overall satisfactory performance. H and HX CPUs are primarily for gaming and workstation laptops (read our MSI GT77 Titan review for an example), and they’ll usually be paired with a powerful AMD or Nvidia GPU.
AMD is rolling out its Ryzen 7000 generation for laptops now, which are currently dominating in high-end performance as you can read in our Asus ROG Strix Scar 17 review.
 We’re still waiting on mainstream chips to see how they stack up, though.
Both AMD and Intel offer credible performance for work and play, and there are many more considerations to make when buying a laptop than the CPU, so looking at individual model reviews is a must.
Should you buy AMD or Intel? For everyday web browsing, watching Netflix, and answering emails, Intel and AMD CPUs will give you excellent performance right out of the box. There are certain tasks, though, where one company’s options perform better than the others.
If you’re looking to work with your processor performing intensive multithreaded tasks like video editing or transcoding, or heavy multitasking activities with tens of browser tabs open, Intel’s laptop CPUs are the fastest, but AMD’s are close behind and often offer better battery life. On desktop, it’s a toss-up, with both AMD and Intel delivering incredible multithreaded performance. You’ll get more bang for your buck with Intel’s midrange options, but at the top end, either camp is great.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends If you’re looking to game on your desktop, both AMD and Intel will serve you well. At the high end, the Core i9-13900K is the best CPU overall, but the 7700X and 7900X are more affordable AMD alternatives. Likewise, the Intel Core i5-13600K is almost as good as all three and much cheaper, but don’t discount the last-generation AMD Ryzen 7 5800X3D, as it’s competitive with all of them — even if it doesn’t give you a good upgrade path with its last-generation design.
If you’re still unsure which chip is best for you, check out our guide on buying a CPU for more help.
Editors' Recommendations AMD is valiantly keeping its word to gamers Gigabyte may have just leaked AMD next big release AMD is slowing down at the worst possible time How Nvidia and AMD could make Windows laptops feel like MacBooks GPU prices and availability (Q4 2023): How much are GPUs today? Gaming Intel PC Computing AMD is putting its foot down. In what Donny Woligroski, senior processor technical marketing manager at AMD, called the "worst-kept secret" in the world of desktop processors, Team Red announced it's bringing its wildly popular Threadripper chips back to high-end desktops. They're destined to be some of the best processors money can buy, and Intel currently has no way to compete.
If you're not up to speed, AMD quietly and unceremoniously ended its Threadripper series for desktops a little over a year ago. When the company announced its previous generation of Threadripper CPUs, it revealed it would stick with the Enterprise-grade Pro series chips going forward. A little over 12 months after that announcement, AMD is reversing course.
Computing AMD hasn't done much with its laptop GPUs this generation, but that's changing. The company revealed the new Radeon RX 7900M, which is a mobile GPU that's squarely targeting the performance of Nvidia's RTX 4080.
Although AMD announced laptop GPUs at the beginning of the year, we haven't seen them in very many laptops. It appears that's changing. The RX 7900M is arriving first in the Alienware m18 laptop alongside AMD's Ryzen 9 7945HX processor. AMD hasn't said if we'll see more laptops with the GPU yet, but it looks like we should only expect it high-end, desktop replacement-class machines.
Computing There's a major change happening with Intel's processors. The latest 14th-gen chips, previously known as the Raptor Lake Refresh, are available for sale, and you can read our Intel Core i9-14900K and Core i5-14600K reviews to see how they perform. They mark the last time Intel will use its Core i-series branding, as well.
Intel has gone through branding adjustments over its decades of business, but it established the Core i3, Core i5, and Core i7 brands in 2008 with the release of the Nehalem architecture. That's the branding the company has stuck with for 15 years, updating the range with a Core i9 badge to note the most powerful chips in 2018.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
