Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Big Sur finally makes iPad apps useful on the Mac By Alex Blake Close Apple’s M1 Macs are finally here, and that means the dream of using iPad apps on a Mac is finally a reality.
Mac Catalyst , Apple’s system that allows developers to port their iPad apps to the Mac, makes it all possible. But are these apps ready for prime time? In previous years, Catalyst has been beset with problems , mostly centered around poor design decisions on Apple’s part. So, with MacOS Big Sur out in the wild, we took a second look to see whether it’s a new feature you’ll love, or still a half-baked compromise.
Making sweet Music A double-edged sword Should you use Apple’s Mac Catalyst apps? Looking back, it seems obvious Apple was in a rush with Mac Catalyst. Though we did not know it at the time, Apple’s plan to ditch Intel processors was well underway when Mac Catalyst launched in 2018, and that necessitated a tool that could help developers get their apps ready for the brave new world. Yet the idea of how an iPad app should work on a Mac was nowhere near settled, and even Apple apparently did not have the answer. It was very out of character for a company that prefers to wait until a technology is perfect rather than rushing to market with something that is not ready.
Two and a half years later, Apple seems to finally have a grip on its Mac Catalyst apps. Through many successive iterations, it has ironed out the creases that marred its early attempts. That means we can finally recommend Apple’s own take on Mac Catalyst apps, albeit not wholeheartedly. Today, we examine the reasons why.
Making sweet Music The Radio section in Music is vastly improved over the Big Sur beta.
Image used with permission by copyright holder When I looked at the range of Mac Catalyst apps in the Big Sur beta , Music was by far the worst of the bunch. It was a strange situation to find the app in, as it had been completely useable in MacOS Catalina, yet fell off a cliff in the beta of the next version of the Mac operating system.
Perhaps someone at Apple was listening to my ranting and raving in that article, because Music has been greatly improved in the full release of Big Sur. The biggest improvements come to the Radio tab, which was a real mess during the beta. Previously, this tab was dominated by two large buttons that were unintuitive. Beats 1, Apple’s headline radio station, got one, while the other was allocated to a featured show. Yet a host of useful features were utterly absent, including a schedule showing the shows’ start and end times, as well as genre tags and categories. Inconsistent information also often totally omitted the name of the show altogether.
In the Big Sur full release , this sorry situation has been vastly improved. Now, the monolithically large buttons have been shrunken down, with two blocks being replaced by a more compact set of three. That means more choice and more information without any scrolling, which is a welcome change.
But it is not just about quantity — quality gets a boost, too. Each of these blocks (one each for Apple Music 1, Apple Music Hits, and Apple Music Country) prominently feature the show’s name, a short description, and its on-air time. You are now no longer left wondering what on earth you are about to listen to and when it will end. Clarity rules.
There is another welcome change just underneath these buttons — a link that takes you through to the show’s schedule. Sure, the information could be laid out a bit more clearly, perhaps like a day view in a calendar, but at least this info is available now. Previously, it was nowhere to be seen, leaving you wholly in the dark.
Finally, the smallest yet most inexplicable issue in the beta has been fixed: The Play button at the top of the app actually resembles a Play button once again, instead of looking like its top and bottom edges had been lopped off with an ax. Common sense reigns once again.
A double-edged sword You can now filter publications’ articles by subtopics.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Most of Apple’s other Mac Catalyst apps are almost completely unchanged from the Big Sur beta.
 The same pleasing full-height sidebars, the same dull and hard-to-distinguish sidebar buttons. Most changes are minor, like the inclusion of a Guides button in Maps search results, which is welcome. The overall outlook is not impeccable, as there are clearly improvements to be made, but it is also not a disaster. Most of Apple’s Mac Catalyst apps are perfectly functional, if not flawless.
News, though, has had a few changes — some you will like, some you may not. The most positive is the introduction of categories on the pages of individual publications (and the News Editors’ Picks page). These take the form of a drop-down menu in the top-right corner of the app. Click it and you can view all the categories the publication has divided its stories into; select one and you will only see stories that match that category. It is a little hidden away, but in terms of improving functionality, it is a welcome change, and a sign that Apple is paying more attention to the small details of its Mac Catalyst apps. For users, that is encouraging.
Less positive is a change to topics. Previously a topic would have a large, featured story taking up a sizeable area of the screen, with smaller stories along its side and underneath. Now, though, every story is the same size, running in two columns down the page. It is bad for readability, as there is nothing to break up the wall of text and images you are now confronted with.
Should you use Apple’s Mac Catalyst apps? Maps now lets you find guides right from your search results.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Apple’s Mac Catalyst apps still have some way to go, but most of the complaints are now relatively minor. Sidebar icons are still too similar to each other, making it hard to distinguish them at a glance, while the TV app still lacks a sidebar that appears in every tab, meaning you still have an unreasonable amount of scrolling to do. But for the first time since Mac Catalyst was announced with MacOS Mojave in June 2018, there are no truly calamitous apps.
I feel confident enough to say you should not make a point of avoiding them. Each app has managed to purge the most egregious drawbacks from previous versions. Many, like Maps and Messages, are excellent apps that we enjoy using (see my exploration of Mac Catalyst apps in the Big Sur beta). Even TV, the weakest of the lot, is fine in everyday use.
It seems that after two years and multiple tweaks and revisions, Apple is finally starting to figure out a way forward for Mac Catalyst, with many of its own apps really finding their footing on the Mac. I only wish it hadn’t taken so long to get to this point.
Editors' Recommendations All the best macOS Sonoma tips and tricks you need to know This genius app turns your iPad into a Mac drawing tablet This dangerous new Mac malware steals your credit card info How macOS Sonoma could fix widgets — or make them even worse Apple just gave Mac gamers a big reason to be excited Apple Apple Mac Software Mobile If you own an Apple product — be in the iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch, or a Mac — you should update it immediately. Why? Apple has begun rolling out updates to all of its devices with fixes for a serious security vulnerability.
The security vulnerability is known as CVE-2023-32434, and it has to do with the kernel privileges of Apple devices. Per Apple's website, the vulnerability allows third-party apps to "execute arbitrary code." In other words, if a bad actor knows how to exploit this vulnerability, they could potentially gain access to your Apple device and wreck havoc.
Computing Microsoft has discovered a critical exploit in macOS that could grant hackers easy access to your Mac’s most important data. Dubbed ‘Migraine,’ it shows why it’s vital to update your Mac as soon as possible.
Migraine is so damaging because it can bypass Apple’s System Integrity Protection, or SIP for short. SIP is enabled by default on modern Macs and works by sandboxing sensitive parts of the computer from outside meddling. Only processes that are signed by Apple (or those with special privileges, like Apple installers) are allowed to alter something guarded by SIP.
Computing What if your macOS dock behaved more fluidly, dynamically morphing to show background processes such as download progress, media controls, text messages, and so on? The following concepts demonstrate "what if" macOS and iOS Live Activities got together and had a child, and they have certainly got my imagination going.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
