Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Apple MacBook Pro 16-inch review: The best Mac in years By Luke Larsen Close $2,399.00 The best keyboard on a Mac Excellent performance for content creation The 16-inch screen is gorgeous Incredible speakers Touch Bar is still not useful Size can be unwieldy The Intel MacBook Pro has been replaced by the M1 Pro and M1 Max models, available in 14-inch and 16-inch sizes. Read our full MacBook Pro review.
The Mac apology tour When every millimeter counts A video editor’s best friend Who is this for again? Our take Lawsuits.
Emergency repair programs.
 A never-ending barrage of online criticism. That’s the past three years of the MacBook Pro, in a nutshell.
The PR nightmare had just begun when I requested a Mac as my work laptop. The MacBook Pro was my default choice at home, handling music production and gaming in spite of its slim size and great battery life. My 2015 MacBook Pro had never let me down.
Yet my experience with the 2016 MacBook Pro was very different. Placed on my desk next to the mounting stacks of excellent Windows laptops, I found its keyboard frustrating. Its design looked dated. Even its performance felt limited.
Mac fans, myself include, want Apple to return the MacBook Pro to its former glory. The MacBook Pro 16 provides the first glimpse of hope in years. Is this the laptop I’ve been waiting for? The Mac apology tour The new 16-inch MacBook Pro isn’t revolutionary. It wasn’t launched at a glitzy press event. It’s not a leap forward in design, and it certainly isn’t innovative. It’s a patch.
At its core, the MacBook Pro’s design remains intact. The unibody aluminum chassis is still a strength, and Apple hasn’t dared to touch that this time around. The same goes for the Thunderbolt 3 port selection and the massive Force Touch trackpad.
Image used with permission by copyright holder However, once you get past the Space Grey of it all, small changes reveal a desire to please fans.
Even the thin bezels around the new 16-inch screen show Apple is listening to criticism. The chunky borders on other MacBooks have looked dated for years now. However, shrinking the bezels would have meant a smaller overall footprint, a smaller touchpad, and less room in the chassis for components.
Instead, Apple added an extra 0.6-inch of display, making for 3,072 x 1,920 resolution. The massive screen offers a fuller view of your work, perfect for multitasking or working in a complex application like Adobe Premiere. It’s not quite the 17-inch laptops of yore, but it’s close.
This is the best Mac keyboard ever released.
While the new display looks great, the keyboard is the most drastic change. Apple painted itself into a corner with its attempt to modernize the keyboard. The company calls the new set of inputs a “Magic Keyboard,” to match the still-popular iMac accessory. Its full millimeter of travel feels like an ocean compared to the prior design. The physical Escape key and the inverted “T” arrow keys make a return.
This is the best Mac keyboard ever released. It’s a step up over the 2015 model, with its larger keycaps and snappier mechanism, and it’s heads-and-tails over the butterfly-switch keyboard in the MacBook Pro 15.
The Touch Bar remains, and still feels useless. I find myself accidentally muting my music and wondering why it isn’t more useful. On the other hand, it usually stayed out of my way. I’ll put up with the Touch Bar so long as the keyboard is up to snuff.
When every millimeter counts There’s more to the new MacBook Pro than a fixed keyboard. In fact, an extra .03 inches of thickness in the chassis has allowed Apple to add meaningful quality of change improvements, such as larger battery cells and a redesigned thermal system.
The larger battery is an important upgrade. Larger laptops with high-resolution screens often struggle with battery life, as did the 15-inch MacBook Pro.
 The MacBook Pro 16’s larger battery cells raise the total watt-hours of juice from 83.6 to 100, the largest battery you can cram in an FAA-approved laptop.
Image used with permission by copyright holder However, larger batteries don’t always mean more time away from a wall socket. In the case of the 16-inch MacBook Pro, powering the extra pixels appears to steal the extra juice the MacBook Pro 16 includes. The new model couldn’t power me through a full day of work.
Under my standard workload, which involves dozens of tabs, streaming music in Spotify, and Slack, the 16-inch MacBook Pro lasted around five and a half hours. In other words, that 16% larger battery isn’t producing 16% more battery life.
If you sit under bright office lights all day, beware. I consistently held the screen brightness above 75%, which explains why all the power went. It’s not as long as I’d like, but it’s in line with Windows options like the Dell XPS 15 with 4K display.
A video editor’s best friend Inflating the chassis doesn’t mean better battery life, but it does help performance. The ultra-thin design of the 15-inch MacBook Pro provided adequate performance in 2016, but the first Core i9 processors were announced earlier in 2018, and suddenly presented new capabilities for laptops. Content creation.
Video editing.
 Creative work. It was always possible, but it’s now far easier.
Apple tossed them into the 15-inch MacBook Pro. The result was severe throttling. It was so bad that the Core i7 often kept up with the Core i9 in a MacBook Pro 15, unless you ran the Core i9 in a freezer.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The refreshed 2019 MacBook Pro 15, with a newer Core i9 that added two more cores to the mix, improved the situation. However, laptops like the Dell XPS 15 still handled the chip better.
With the 16-inch MacBook Pro, Apple went back to the drawing board to redesign the thermals for this new class of high-end processors. Thinner fan blades, larger heatsinks, extra vents. It’s a complete re-work.
The difference is astounding. Despite using the same processor with the same 32GB of RAM, the 16-inch MacBook Pro leaves its predecessor in the dust in every benchmark and real-life test I threw at it.
I rendered a 4K two-minute clip in Premiere Pro, in ProRes 422, in just 4 minutes and 41 seconds. That same clip on the 15-inch MacBook Pro? It took twice as long. The MacBook pro 16 is now just as fast as the Dell XPS 15, which it always should’ve been. I shudder to think how fast it could have rendered that clip in Mac-optimized software like Final Cut Pro.
There’s more to its fantastic performance than increased airflow.
There’s more to these fantastic results than increased airflow. Adobe’s recent software optimizations play a big part of the equation, as do the new onboard graphics.
As with all recent MacBook Pros, the 16-inch model uses a custom card from AMD. But the Radeon Pro 5300M and 5500M aren’t your average update over last year’s graphics. These are based on AMD’s next generation of Zen 2 7nm graphics architecture, and assist in turning the MacBook Pro 16 into a serious powerhouse video editing machine.
Who is this for again? The sparkle of a new MacBook Pro might tempt you in a few different ways, even if it’s not meant for you. I f your day-to-day doesn’t involve running intensive applications, you won’t have much use for an eight-core (or even six-core) laptop.
For example, the new graphics hint at better game performance. The MacBook Pro 16 doesn’t live up to that expectation.
The MacBook Pro 16 is fast, but it’s not a gaming laptop.
Games like Fortnite and Rocket League are smoother than before, consistently running at framerates around 60 FPS at medium settings. You’ll always need to pay attention to the graphics settings, especially because of the off-kilter resolutions the 16-inch Pro can display natively.
Civilization VI had this problem, refusing to run in fullscreen and only hitting 53 FPS at Medium settings. The Dell XPS 15, with its Nvidia GTX 1650 , will always be a better choice for gaming, offering a more conventional resolution and enough power for cranking up the settings a bit more. It can hit 50 FPS at Epic settings in Fortnite and 82 FPS in Civilization VI at Medium.
You also might consider it for simple everyday tasks, but again, it’s more power than you need.
Unlike Dell or Microsoft, Apple doesn’t offer a larger MacBook Pro without a six-core or eight-core processor, discrete graphics, and 16GB of RAM.
The sheer size of the 16-inch MacBook Pro is a concern, as well. With a footprint of 14.09 x 9.68 inches, it’s not a laptop you’ll want to bring on an airplane, and it’ll need most of the table at your local coffee shop.
Image used with permission by copyright holder There is, however, a case to be made for someone who wants a high-end media experience out of their laptop. Apple has tuned the speakers well, and it claims an extra half-octave of bass. These are by far the best speakers you can find on a laptop, and you can feel it in the rumble of an explosion in The Mandalorian, or the kick drum in a song.
This display is gorgeous, too, though that’s to expected. It’s bright, the colors are accurate, and the contrast is high. The best displays from Dell and HP can compete with the MacBook Pro 16, but this huge screen makes for an immersive movie-watching experience. The 16:10 aspect ratio means you’ll always see letter-boxing, however.
Our take For the first time in years, I can breath a sigh of relief and recommend a MacBook Pro. It does what Apple needed it to do, solving each of the complaints I’d held against the MacBook Pro. That elevates it back into the upper tier of premium laptops.
Are there any alternatives? If you’re not using your laptop for content creation or other stringent tasks, you probably don’t need a laptop this large or this powerful. Opting for a 13-inch laptop like the Dell XPS 13, HP Spectre x360, or Surface Laptop 3 will save you hundreds of dollars. If you must go with a Mac, the 13-inch MacBook Pro is rumored to get an update in the first half of 2020.
The best true alternative to the 16-inch MacBook Pro, though, is the Dell XPS 15.
 When configured with similar specs, the XPS 15 is over a thousand dollars cheaper than the MacBook Pro 16-inch. That’s a lot of savings, all while providing similar performance, an OLED 4K screen, and better port selection.
Another option for content creators is the Asus ZenBook Duo Pro.
 On top of the unique second screen of this laptop, the Duo Pro has an OLED 4K screen and fantastic Core i9 performance. It’s still one of the most powerful implementation of that chip for video editors and content creators.
How long will it last? Reliability has become a concern for Apple. The new keyboard is unlikely to have many of the same problems as before, and the laptop is no longer part of the emergency repair program. Considering how well-built and fully-loaded these laptops are, it should last at least five years.
The MacBook Pro comes with 90 days of technical support and a standard one-year limited warranty. You can, of course, extend coverage to up to three years using AppleCare+ and in-store repair.
Should you buy it? Yes. If you’ve been waiting for a powerful MacBook you can rely on, this is it.
Editors' Recommendations Here’s more proof that Apple is wrong about MacBook memory MacBook Pro M3: Should you choose the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max? Apple’s M3 Max appears to keep up with Intel’s top desktop CPU How to watch Apple’s ‘Scary Fast’ Mac launch event if you missed it Why the MacBook Air is still stuck on the M2 Apple Laptop Reviews Laptops Mac Mac Reviews Product Reviews Computing It's not often that MacBook Pros get new color options. But with this most recent update to M3 chips, the MacBook Pro will add Space Black, a color that first appeared on the iPhone, to the mix. I was shown an early preview of the new color ahead of the "Scary Fast" launch event, and I have to say: I'm smitten.
This new Space Black is not true black, of course. In truth, it's a slightly darker gray than Space Gray, which it replaces. And it's a good thing this isn't true black. Because remember, this is aluminum, and Apple isn't just slapping a coating or layer of paint on here like so many laptop manufacturers do when making true black aluminum laptops. These laptops, such as most gaming laptops or even something like the Surface Laptop, tend to scratch easily and fade over time.
Computing Apple announced an update to its MacBook Pros at today's Scary Fast event that brings the M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max under the hood. That might sound like a ho-hum generational chip refresh, especially coming just 10 months after the M2 Pro/Max models came out. But trust me -- these new MacBook Pros have become an unstoppable force, especially the new full-tilt model with the M3 Max.
The 14-inch MacBook Pro (which replaces the 13-inch MacBook Pro) will now have the option for the M3, M3 Pro, or M3 Max, while the 16-inch model gets the M3 Pro and an even more powerful M3 Max configuration. Across the board, these new M3 chips are built on the new 3nm technology, the same that's used in the new iPhone 15 models, only scaled up for the Mac. It's all about efficiency, with Apple claiming that the M3 chips provides the same performance at 30% less power.
Computing Apple's unexpected "Scary Fast" event has wrapped, and the 30-minute presentation was packed full of announcements. Headlining the showcase was Apple's new M3 chip, which is showing up in a variety of devices in just a week from now.
We have the lowdown on everything Apple announced at its unprecedented fall event, which kicks off the third generation of Apple's silicon with two major product updates.
M3 family of chips Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
