Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing News Apple’s Mac Catalyst apps are more important than ever, and they still need work By Alex Blake Close The Apple Silicon transition is incoming, and with it, a wealth of mobile apps that should automatically run on new Macs. That doesn’t mean these apps will offer great experiences on day one, though.
Time for some good news Mapping out more positive change Undoing Apple’s good work Not music to our ears One step forward, one step back One of the solutions is a project called Mac Catalyst, which is Apple’s way of helping developers port iPad apps over to the Mac. But even Apple’s own Mac Catalyst apps have had a rocky start since the first ones launched in 2018 with MacOS Mojave.
 They improved in MacOS Catalina, but still left me unconvinced about the future of the platform.
With the official launch of Big Sur on the horizon, Apple has taken its third stab at making these first-party apps feel a bit more at home on the Mac. They’re still far from perfect, but a few of the apps show signs of progress for Catalyst.
Time for some good news The News app has seen some welcome changes in MacOS Big Sur Image used with permission by copyright holder I’ll start with the good news — literally — as Apple’s News app has definitely improved over its predecessor in MacOS Catalina.
As with many apps in the Big Sur redesign , News now has a full-height sidebar on the left-hand side. In Catalina, the sidebar is cut off by a gray title bar that runs along the top of the app, which feels like wasted space. The redesign now means that the search bar has been relocated from the far right-hand corner to the top of the sidebar, making it much simpler to find.
The removal of the gray bar makes it easier to know what section of the app you are in. Previously, section titles (such as “News Editor’s Picks”) were squeezed between the gray bar and the lead story photo. Now, they have much more space, allowing for larger titles that more clearly demarcate each section. When you read a story, the section title remains at the top, giving you a clear indication of where each story is located. That makes finding your way around the app more straightforward, improving the user experience.
So far, so good.
Mapping out more positive change Maps is one of the better Mac Catalyst apps this year Image used with permission by copyright holder There are improvements elsewhere, too. Messages finally gains most of the same features as its iOS cousin , and it is so much better for it. Many of the improvements come in group messages. You can tag people directly and send inline replies; the latter blurs the background when you view a reply, which is a really nice touch. Neither feature is particularly ground-breaking in 2020, but nonetheless each one vastly improves the experience on the Mac.
Messages is also one of the few Mac Catalyst apps in Big Sur where the layout choices really work. Its full-height sidebar and minimalist buttons put the focus firmly on your conversation threads where it should be, without distracting your attention. The app feels more spacious, with each element getting more room to breathe.
I was also impressed with the changes coming to Apple Maps.
 One of the most notable additions is the Guides feature, which groups together interesting destinations in themed packages (such as outdoor activities in your area). These are a little tricky to find — they only seem to appear on a city’s pop-up information window, and a tab or button allowing you to browse popular guides would be helpful – but they are a great way to acquaint yourself with a new town.
As with Messages, the layout changes in Maps make sense and work well. Toolbar buttons have been made more subtle, getting out of your way and letting you concentrate on your locations. The full-height sidebar means less wasted space, too, and makes it far more straightforward to find your recent places and Siri suggestions. Overall, Big Sur is good news for Maps.
Undoing Apple’s good work The TV app was a mess on Catalina, but is a little better in Big Sur Image used with permission by copyright holder Unfortunately, not all of Apple’s Mac Catalyst apps are quite so impressive. Some are roughly as good as their Catalina equivalents, while others have stumbled backward.
When the new round of Mac Catalyst apps launched with MacOS Catalina, TV was by far the worst example.
 It was a total mess, with nonsensical design decisions, confusing layouts, and even sections that seemed completely unfinished.
In some ways, TV has improved. The gray title bar along the top of the app is a little larger, making the navigation buttons a little less squashed, and it is less distracting thanks to its lighter hue. But problems remain: There is still no general sidebar, meaning browsing for categories or favorites is a tiresome exercise in unnecessary scrolling.
The sidebar only appears when you are in the Library tab, but even here it disappoints. Unlike the other Mac Catalyst apps, it is not full-height, while section icons in the sidebar have become duller and harder to tell apart thanks to their uniform colors and thinner font weights.
This penchant for dull icons continues in the Podcasts app. Whereas in Catalina the sidebar icons in this app were differentiated by color as well as design, in Big Sur every sidebar icon is the same shade. As well as that, they have been made smaller and thinner, and the text next to them has shrunk too. Combined with a sidebar background that is darker than that in Catalina, the result is it is now harder to navigate the Podcasts app in a glance.
Not music to our ears Music has taken some serious backward steps in MacOS Big Sur Image used with permission by copyright holder All of those setbacks pale in comparison to the worst of the bunch: Music. As far as Mac Catalyst apps go, this was actually fairly serviceable in Catalina. Clearly Apple thought otherwise, though, as it has somehow contrived to make Music far more unpleasant to use than it was previously.
The app is now less informative, and even more unlikable than before. For example, the Radio tab previously featured a prominent link to listen to Apple’s Beats 1 station. Above a large thumbnail was the name of the current show playing on the station, along with the times it was broadcasting. The thumbnail itself was overlaid with a short description of the currently playing show.
Now, all that is gone, replaced simply by the name of the station and the word “Exclusive.” The show description has been removed from the thumbnail, replaced by a large “Play Now” button that actually obscures the text on the thumbnail. There is no information on what show is currently playing, nor when it will finish. The changes manage to make the app worse, not better.
There are other problems. The same dull icons and thin text that afflict other Mac Catalyst apps are present in Music. Only the iTunes Store icon comes in a different color — purple as opposed to red — but it is still harder to read than it was in Catalina.
Finally, for some reason, the large Play button in the top-left has had its top and bottom corners trimmed off, making it less recognizable as a Play button and smaller than the buttons either side of it. Why Apple chose to do this is anyone’s guess.
One step forward, one step back The Podcasts app isn’t terrible but still leaves a lot to be desired Image used with permission by copyright holder As far as Mac Catalyst apps go, MacOS Big Sur seems to present some light at the end of the tunnel. For the first time since the inception of the Mac Catalyst project, Apple is giving Mac fans some genuinely excellent cross-platform apps. It suggests the company is starting to get a grip on what exactly it wants from these apps and where it sees Mac Catalyst heading in the future.
Yet for all the good work, there are still apps that feel utterly lost on the Mac, out of place, and full of baffling design decisions. While the MacOS Big Sur redesign looks magnificent (here’s how you can download it ), the Mac Catalyst apps are its obvious weak spot.
I would really expect a company of Apple’s size to have fixed its own Mac apps by now, especially with the transition Apple Silicon lingering over the end of 2020. The positive signs emanating from News, Maps, and Messages show there is hope for the future, but there is still work to do. Who knows? Maybe Apple will add some refinements before Big Sur is ready for prime time later this fall.
Editors' Recommendations All the best macOS Sonoma tips and tricks you need to know How macOS Sonoma could fix widgets — or make them even worse Have an iPhone, iPad, or Apple Watch? You need to update it right now Is macOS more secure than Windows? This malware report has the answer The one thing the next version of macOS needs to address Apple Apple Apple WWDC Mac Software Computing Apple is planning a packed line-up for its Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) on June 5, which could become “one of the most critical events in the company’s history.” Aside from the company’s upcoming Reality Pro headset, there will be major updates to Apple’s software systems, including the biggest watchOS revamp since the Apple Watch launched in 2015.
That’s according to a new report from Bloomberg journalist Mark Gurman, who has a history of accurate predictions and leaks surrounding Apple products. It suggests that WWDC will be a chance for Apple to set out its future ambitions for a “post-iPhone era.” Computing Apple saw a big drop in Mac shipments in the first quarter of 2023 compared to the same quarter a year earlier, according to data from research firm IDC.
The Cupertino, California-based tech giant shipped 4.1 million laptops and desktops during the last quarter, compared to 6.9 million in the same period 12 months ago, marking a sizable 40.5% decline.
Computing Pirated software can cause all kinds of headaches, but Mac users might have thought themselves largely immune thanks to Apple’s reputation for solid security. Yet, that complacency could prove quite problematic, as a new strain of nearly undetectable malware has shown.
According to research from security firm Jamf Threat Labs, pirated versions of Apple’s Final Cut Pro moviemaking app have been modified to contain cryptojacking payloads. When installed, the app starts using your Mac to mine the Monero cryptocurrency behind your back, potentially slowing down your machine as system resources are illegitimately gobbled up.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
