Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Asus’ ROG Azoth is somehow better than my custom gaming keyboard By Jacob Roach Close $250.00 Multipurpose OLED display Sublime typing experience Gasket mount design Switch stabilizers Switch lubing station included North-facing PCB can present keycap issues Stock NX switches aren't the best I never thought I would prefer an off-the-shelf gaming keyboard over the custom mechanical keyboard I built last year. But here we are.
Enthusiast design, mainstream features Dream-like typing Make it your own A functional OLED display The gaming keyboard to beat When Asus announced its ROG Azoth, I knew immediately it was one of my most anticipated products of the year.
 Based on the spec sheet, it’s a piece of kit that sits among the best gaming keyboards you can buy. I didn’t expect it to be better than a custom, enthusiast-grade mechanical keyboard, though, and it is. Still, there are a couple of minors areas I’d like to see Asus improve with a version two.
A typo is ruining this $700 Asus motherboard — but there’s a fix AMD’s new anti-lag tech could land you with a ban in games This Noctua-themed gaming PC is a bespoke beauty — and you can buy it Enthusiast design, mainstream features Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The look of the ROG Azoth is immediately recognizable to anyone in the world of enthusiast mechanical keyboards. It’s a 75% design, following in the footsteps of the Glorious GMMK Pro and Drop Sense75.
 There are some critical changes, though.
The top is an aluminum frame, but there isn’t aluminum all around the body like the GMMK Pro or Sense75. The Azoth is a hefty keyboard, but it’s not nearly as heavy as these other enthusiast models due to its plastic bottom.
There’s a good reason for plastic here. The defining feature of the Azoth is that it supports 2.4GHz low-latency wireless and Bluetooth in addition to a wired connection. There isn’t another keyboard of the caliber of the Azoth that supports wireless, and that’s mainly because it’s hard to transmit a wireless signal through aluminum. Asus compromised, and I’m glad it did.
Battery life is exceptional too, even with the feature-rich OLED screen on the board. I started using the Azoth out of the box without charging (it arrived at about half battery). After a week of daily use, I only needed to charge it once, and I still have half the battery left as I’m typing this review.
Dream-like typing Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The 75% form factor doesn’t automatically make the Azoth an enthusiast keyboard, and Asus has a lot of justifying to do for the $250 list price. I’m not comparing the Azoth to keyboards like the Razer Huntman V2 — which is similarly as expensive — because it comes with the features and typing experience worthy of an enthusiast badge.
It uses a gasket mount, which was previously reserved for obscenely expensive keyboards like the Angry Miao Cyberboard R2.
 The plate is offset on silicon gaskets, which provide a soft cushion for your keystrokes and the satisfying thunk of a high-end mechanical keyboard.
Asus combines the gasket mount with stabilizers that make large keys like the space bar feel smooth no matter where you strike them, as well as plate foam to cut down on the metallic ping that’s undesirable for mechanical keyboards. The result? A sublime typing experience that even high-end enthusiast keyboards can’t rival.
The only exception are the switches. Asus includes its own NX switches, either in a red (linear), blue (clicky), or brown (tactile) variety. I used the brown switches, and they’re better than the garden variety Cherry switches you find in keyboards like the Corsair K70 RGB Pro.
 The switches come pre-lubed, and they feel worthy of the price tag. But this a keyboard that demands upgrades, and those upgrades are where it shines.
Make it your own Jacob Roach / Digital Trends The Azoth is fully customizable, and its real value lies in picking up some other switches and keycaps and making the keyboard your own. You can change out the switches with an included tool, similar to last year’s Asus ROG Strix Flare II Animate.
I reached for some Akko Wine Red switches and a cheap set of keycaps I found on Amazon — overall, around a $50 upgrade — and it completely changed the typing experience. I still preferred my custom GMMK Pro with the stock configuration, but with a couple minor upgrades? It’s hard ditching the Azoth.
I have a couple of minor issues here, though. For starters, the included keycaps aren’t great. They’re double-shot PBT and plenty durable, but Asus includes some weird additions. For example, you normally find a raised edge on the F and J keys to signal where your home row is, but Asus moves this to the W key instead. I understand that this is a gaming keyboard, but while playing games, the raised edge becomes an annoyance more than a helpful guide.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Another problem is that the Azoth uses a north-facing PCB. The RGB LEDs are at the top of the switch housing instead of the bottom. This is to allow the light to shine through translucent legends on the keycaps, but north-facing PCBs can interfere with certain keycaps and lead to a less-desirable sound and typing feel.
Even with those issues, there’s no denying that Asus is pushing mainstream mechanical keyboards to a place they’ve never gone before, and I’m on board.
A functional OLED display Jacob Roach / Digital Trends I’m not much for gimmicks on keyboards, but the OLED display on the ROG Azoth isn’t a gimmick. It’s a highly functional multipurpose hub that makes it a breeze to cycle through settings, change your brightness, and add a bit of flair to your desk.
On the side, there’s a switch that you can toggle up and down to change volume, adjust brightness, etc. You can also press down on it for another function and use a button on the side for yet another. Combined, you can cycle through media controls, brightness settings, and lighting effects with a few clicks.
You can customize these functions in Asus’ Armoury Crate, too. The OLED display goes much further and can display custom animations, text, and even some limited system information like your CPU and temperature. All these settings are stored in a profile, and you can store up to six profiles on board, too.
This is the kind of mainstream functionality you just don’t find on an enthusiast keyboard. Asus is bringing the best of both worlds together here.
The gaming keyboard to beat Even with everything I covered in this review, the Azoth brings even more features, including MacOS support and a lubing station for your key switches. Asus is beating enthusiast keyboards on the feature front and mainstream keyboards on the quality front.
Jacob Roach / Digital Trends What’s shocking is that Asus isn’t charging much of a premium.$250 isn’t cheap for a gaming keyboard, but that’s the same price as the Corsair K100 and $50 more than the SteelSeries Apex Pro.
 You’re getting a far higher-quality keyboard with the Asus ROG Azoth for that price.
Editors' Recommendations I fell in love with this adorable mini gaming PC Best gaming PC deals: Powerful gaming rigs from just $750 The best gaming PCs for 2023: Dell, Origin, Lenovo, and more Lenovo’s Legion Glasses promise big-screen gaming wherever you are These are the only gaming laptops you should consider if you want to play Starfield PC Gaming Computing Nvidia ACE, the tool that's meant to transform games with generative AI, is evolving, and Nvidia has just revealed an interesting update to it. It turns out that developers won't just be able to utilize ACE to create fully-interactive characters, complete with dialogue and facial expressions, but they'll also be able to use Nvidia's new NeMo SteerLM technology to adapt these characters' personalities.
Nvidia initially announced its ACE tool earlier this year, keeping the details pretty scarce. ACE is something like ChatGPT for games, meant to make it easier for game developers to create characters with fully-developed backstories, adding more depth to the way they interact with players.
Computing You're searching for the best gaming laptops, and you're hit with a big dose of reality: Gaming laptops are really expensive. Even midrange laptops can cost upwards of $2,000, and if you want a flagship laptop, you can spend as much as $5,000. Who's supposed to buy these things anyway? Fret not, as we've rounded up the best budget gaming laptops so you can play your games for cheap. For this guide, we're focusing on laptops you can by for at or below $1,000, with a particular focus on gaming notebooks that provide the best bang for your buck.
Computing Handheld fever is ramping up. Lenovo is working on a handheld competitor to the Asus ROG Ally and Steam Deck, according to a report from Windows Central, which is called the Legion Go.
The report says that the device will launch with an AMD Phoenix processor along with an 8-inch display. It's not clear if it will use the AMD Ryzen Z1 Extreme as the ROG Ally does, but the report suggests it will launch with one of AMD's Zen 4 mobile processors.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
