Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides How to download MacOS Big Sur By Tyler Lacoma Close Apple’s latest MacOS update, called Big Sur , finally moves away from version 10 after nearly 20 years. MacOS 11 is one of the biggest updates yet, boasting a visual overhaul, new notifications, a faster Safari experience, and an upgraded Messages app. It also begins Apple’s transition away from Intel CPUs.
Step 1: Check your Mac’s compatibility Step 2: Back up your Mac Step 3: Download MacOS Big Sur Step 4: Make Sure Big Sur Works Now, Big Sur is officially out of beta and was publicly released on November 12, 2020. Read on to find out how to download MacOS Big Sur right now.
Big Sur has been out for nearly a year now, and now the latest MacOS Monterey is out in public beta. If you want to test drive the latest OS, you can learn how to download it here.
 Just understand that there will probably be some bugs and compatibility issues since it is still in beta.
Step 1: Check your Mac’s compatibility Image used with permission by copyright holder This should be your first priority. As with all MacOS updates, some Macs can’t support the new software due to outdated hardware. If you are running a Mac that isn’t compatible with Big Sur, you will have to stick with Catalina.
Here is Apple’s official list of compatible devices: MacBook — 2015 and later MacBook Air — 2013 and later MacBook Pro — Late 2013 and later Mac Mini — 2014 and later iMac — 2014 and later iMac Pro — 2017 and later (all models) Mac Pro — 2013 and later If you’re good to go, then move on to the next step. If not, it’s time to buy a new Mac. We recommend getting one of the M1 MacBooks because of Apple’s powerful processor and impressive battery life.
Step 2: Back up your Mac Image used with permission by copyright holder Before you update to Big Sur, it is always good to backup your current Mac version. There’s always a chance of serious bugs corrupting your data, and you need to be prepared in case that happens. Unfortunately, you can’t merely roll back to a stable version without a complete factory reset. Instead, you should have a Time Machine backup locked and loaded before installing any beta.
When updating your MacOS install, creating a backup should be your next priority.
When you connect an external drive, MacOS may ask to use it for Time Machine backups. Select Encrypt Backups on the prompt, click the Use Disk button, and you’re good to go. If not, you can manually enable an external disk to use Time Machine by using the following steps.
Step 1: Select Time Machine in System Preferences.
Step 2: Click the Select Backup Disk , Select Disk , or Add or Remove Backup Disk button.
Step 3: Select the external drive in the following window.
Step 4: Click the box next to Encrypt Backups.
Step 5: Click the Use Disk button.
There is another option if you don’t have an external drive and still want to update. You can partition your Mac’s drive and silo off a space to experiment with Big Sur. This is a little more complicated, and you need enough local storage to manage two operating systems. If you are interested, we have a guide where you can learn more.
Step 3: Download MacOS Big Sur Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 1: Select System Preferences from the Apple drop-down menu, then click Software Update.
 You can also download MacOS Big Sur on the App Store. Once the update appears and you confirm it’s Big Sur, just click the Update button.
Step 2: Once the update has been downloaded, it is time to install. When the installer pops up, click Continue and follow all the directions.
This update could take some time, but be sure to check on it regularly to see if Apple needs you to make any decisions. When it’s finished, your Mac should boot into the Big Sur.
Note that if your Mac has a small drive, like on a MacBook Air, the installer may refuse to upgrade MacOS on that drive, even though MacOS says there’s enough space. This is likely due to Time Machine, which stores local snapshots that the user can’t see — the installer counts against the total storage space.
Step 1: Open Time Machine in System Preferences.
Step 2: Deselect Back Up Automatically (or click the On/Off switch).
Wait a few minutes, and then turn Time Machine back on — this should delete the local snapshots. If not, you’ll need to manually delete these hidden files. Here’s how: Step 1: Open Terminal.
Step 2: Type: tmutil listlocalsnapshots / You should see a list of local backups reading something like “com.apple.TimeMachine.2020-08-19-103644.” The MacBook Air we have on hand lists seven of these files, each with a different number after the August 19 date.
Step 3: Type the following, and replace the date and number with whatever you see on your Mac: sudo tmutil deletelocalsnapshots 2020-08-19-103644 Another way to bypass storage issues is to move the Install MacOS Big Sur app to an external drive. The update downloads to the external drive as well — just select the target drive during the initial installation process.
Finally, click Install to finish and wait for your Mac to reboot or manually click the Restart button.
Step 4: Make Sure Big Sur Works Before you delete your backup and move on with your life, make sure everything is up to snuff in the operating system. It’s best to hold onto your backup to make sure no major bugs manifest.
Remember that certain features of Big Sur are only available on newer Macs, even if you’re Mac supports the OS in general. You can check Apple’s website to see which features are available for different models.
Editors' Recommendations 7 trackpad gestures for Mac that everyone should know This dangerous new Mac malware steals your credit card info Apple just gave Mac gamers a big reason to be excited This critical exploit could let hackers bypass your Mac’s defenses This macOS concept fixes both the Touch Bar and Dynamic Island Apple Apple Mac Software Computing It’s a long-held belief that Macs are less at risk of malware and viruses than Windows PCs, but how true is that? Well, a new report has shed some light on the situation -- and the results might surprise you.
According to threat research firm Elastic Security Labs, roughly 39% of all malware infections happen on Windows PCs. In good news for Apple fans, only 6% of breaches occurred on macOS, making Mac systems far less vulnerable than their Windows counterparts.
Computing Despite their reputation for security, Macs can still get viruses, and that’s just been proven by a malicious new Mac malware that can steal your credit card info and send it back to the attacker, ready to be exploited. It’s a reminder to be careful when opening apps from unknown sources.
The malware, dubbed MacStealer, was discovered by Uptycs, a threat research firm. It hoovers up a wide array of your personal data, including the iCloud Keychain password database, credit card data, cryptocurrency wallet credentials, browser cookies, documents, and more. That means there’s a lot that could be at risk if it gains a foothold on your Mac.
Computing Apple might not officially be in the AI space, but a developer has created a legitimate way to bring ChatGPT to macOS and make the chatbot accessible from your menu bar.
The aptly named MacGPT is an application developed by Jordi Bruin that allows you to install ChatGPT as a remote browser on your Mac desktop. The application has been available since the 2022 holiday season and has garnered over 370 ratings, many of which are five stars. MacGPT is currently free, however, Bruin accepts donations. Once out of beta, he will make MacGPT available at the App Store, where it will sell for $5.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
