Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Recall an Email in Outlook Schedule an Email in Outlook Change Signature in Outlook Set an Out of Office in Outlook Share Outlook Calendar Home Computing Guides How to recall an email in Outlook By Jacob Roach and Anita George Close Recalling an email (or message, as the app calls them) in Outlook is easy. The desktop app includes a helpful option to recall and even replace a message you didn't want to send or want a second chance to reword. It's easy but not necessarily intuitive, so we're here to help guide you through how to recall an email in Outlook.
How to recall an email in Outlook What to do if you can't recall an email in Outlook FAQs about recalling Outlook messages Difficulty Duration What You Need Outlook desktop app Keep in mind that recalling a message doesn't work in the web-based version of Outlook — it's only available in the desktop client. Also, they only work if you and the recipient use a Microsoft Exchange or Microsoft 365 account within the same organization. Recalling messages in Outlook won’t work with recipient email addresses from outside of the sender’s organization.
How to recall an email in Outlook You'll need the desktop Outlook client to recall email messages, which isn't too bad considering it's one of the best email clients you can download.
With the latest version, open up the client and select Home to get started.
Step 1: Using the menu on the left side, select Sent items to see your sent emails.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: Find the Outlook message you want to recall and double-click it. This will open the email in a new window.
How to calibrate your monitor to make it better for free How to find your computer specs on Windows 11 How to block an email address in Gmail Step 3: Ensure you have the Message tab selected in the email window. Select the Three dots on the right side of the toolbar, hover over Actions, and then select Recall this message.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 4: If you don't see the three dots, instead select Move from the tool bar, then choose Actions and Recall this message.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 5: A pop-up window appears on your screen. Here, you have two options: Delete unread copies of this message or Delete unread copies and replace with a new message.
 You’ll also see an option to have Outlook notify you if the process succeeds or fails. Select your option(s) and click the OK button to continue. If you deleted the message, congratulations! If you want to replace it, continue on.
Step 6: If you choose to create a replacement, Outlook opens a second screen so you can revise the message. As you compose your new email, Outlook recalls your old message and displays a notification (if you selected that option). Just click the Send button when you’re done with the revised message.
Note: If you send a recall message, it doesn’t exactly make your old email disappear. In order to have the original message disappear, the recipient may need to open the recall message first. This is why you should type URGENT or something similar in the recall message’s title so that it’s opened before the first offensive email. Continue on for a lengthier explanation. Microsoft also states that, in some cases, the recipient may be notified when recalled messages are deleted from their inbox. So, bear in mind that even when recalling an email, the recipient may still know that a botched or offensive message had been sent to them even if they can’t view it.
What to do if you can't recall an email in Outlook If the recipient has already opened your message in Outlook, you can't recall it. However, you can setup Outlook to give you more time to reconsider a message before it sends.
Outlook allows you to delay your emails so they don’t send immediately. If you’re constantly replying to emails, sending private data back and forth, or are just prone to slip-ups, you might want to start delaying or even scheduling your emails in Outlook.
 You can easily set this up for all your Outlook emails by following these simple instructions: Step 1: Select File in the upper-left corner of Outlook.
Step 2: Scroll down a bit and click Manage rules & alerts.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 3: The Rules and alerts window will pop up on your screen. From here, select the New rule option.
Step 4: Another pop-up window will appear. Here, click Apply rule on messages I send.
 You’ll notice that this is listed underneath Start from a blank rule.
 Hit the Next button to continue.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 5: Don’t worry about anything else on the conditions list and click Next to continue. After this, a confirmation screen will appear. Select Yes to confirm.
Step 6: Select the Defer delivery by a number of minutes option. Choose the A number of link. You’ll see a pop-up screen appear and you'll be asked to choose your preferred duration. Input the number you want (120 minutes is as far as you can go) and then click the OK button. Once you’ve gone through all that, click Next.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 7: If you have any exceptions, select the exceptions options you want. Then, click the Next button to continue.
Step 8: Give your rule a name, and check the Turn on this rule checkbox if it’s available. Finally, hit the Finish button.
FAQs about recalling Outlook messages Why doesn't recalling email in Outlook always work? While it sounds pretty simple, recalling an email in Outlook won’t always work the way you think. With today’s internet speeds (unless you live in a dead zone), that mistaken email is probably already waiting in someone’s inbox, which creates several issues. A few different factors will mess with your attempts to recall a message.
Can you recall an email after an hour? You can always recall an email after one hour. Recalling an email in Outlook will work as long as the recipient didn't open the message just yet. However, it is best to act fast, as once the email is opened, the recall will do no good.
Does the recipient know if an email is recalled in Outlook? In some cases, yes, Outlook may notify a recipient that an email has been recalled from their inbox in Outlook.
Recalling opened messages in Outlook: If a recipient opens your original email, you can’t recall it. The recipient can still get and read the second recall message, but the original stays in their Outlook inbox. That’s one reason why you should act quickly.
Redirects to other folders: If your first message activated a filter and Outlook rerouted it to a specific folder, then your recall will fail. The recall option only affects emails that remain in the inbox. If the first message waits elsewhere, it won’t go away.
A message sent to a public folder If anyone reads your message lurking in a public folder, the recall fails.
Other email clients: The recall function works with messages in Outlook. If you send an email to someone who uses Gmail, for example, the recall won’t work.
Recalling Outlook messages isn't foolproof, and there are still ways the recipient can read your message. If you're quick, though, you can still recall an Outlook email before it does any harm.
Recalling emails in Outlook is the first step to being a power user with the client. If you want to go deeper, with have a roundup of seven features you probably didn't know about in Outlook.
 We also have three tips to keep your Outlook inbox tidy , including automatically sending your emails to specific folders.
Editors' Recommendations How to insert a checkbox in Word How to use a blue light filter on your PC or Mac How to get Photoshop for free Here’s how to quickly and easily convert a PDF to Excel How to set up multiple monitors for PC gaming Business How-To Guides Microsoft Computing Your password is your key to Windows 11, as it protects your files and your important information. There are some cases, however, where you might want to remove a login password in Windows.
One such case is when you’re sharing a PC with someone and don’t necessarily have anything that’s private on your system. Though we don’t recommend it, removing the password can also mean faster logins to your PC.
Computing Discord is a popular communication platform designed for creating communities and hosting real-time discussions. It was initially developed for gamers, but it has since evolved to serve a broader range of users and interests. Discord comes with features that allow users to engage in voice, video, and text communication with friends, communities, or teams and provides a space for people to connect, collaborate, and share their interests.
One of the best features of Discord is the ability to share your screen. Here are some quick steps that can help you share your screen using Discord.
Computing If you’re on a computer and you get a text on your phone, wouldn’t it be great if you could reply without picking it up? Yes, it would, and there are great apps and services that enable just that ability.
Whether you use Apple or Android, you can send and receive text messages on a Mac, Windows PC, or Chromebook. Keep reading to determine which option works best for you.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
