Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Apple iPad Pro 2020 six-month review: The tablet that replaced my laptop By Christian de Looper Close The iPad is going through a bit of a renaissance. When the 2018 iPad Pro was first unveiled, it showed what a modern, powerful iPad could look like by doing away with the aging classic iPad design in favor of a new, streamlined approach. Apple further refined the iPad Pro earlier this year, with a modest update that brought a better camera and a slew of new accessories, like the new Magic Keyboard.
Design and display Performance and battery life iPadOS 14 True productivity Should you buy the 2020 iPad Pro? Once Apple brought mouse support to the iPad, I was sold. In fact, I sold my laptop, and I’ve been using the iPad Pro — complete with a Magic Keyboard — as a laptop replacement for a while now. Of course, given the current state of the world, I’m not often straying from my Mac Mini to work away from home. But when I do, I’m running into fewer and fewer issues as iPadOS continues to get better , and I continue to learn how to use it.
Here are my thoughts on the 11-inch iPad Pro after six months of using it as a full laptop replacement.
How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes 4 AI features I want in my next iPhone 10 awesome things you can do with the iPhone 15 Pro Action button Design and display Months into using the iPad Pro , I’m still enamored by the design. It’s a beautiful product. With its edge-to-edge display, superthin build, and excellent details, the iPad Pro is the best-designed tablet on the market.
But it has a few quirks to its design, too. I’ll be the first to praise Face ID.
 It’s fast, secure, and pretty well-implemented on the iPad Pro. But I almost exclusively use my iPad Pro in horizontal orientation, and I almost always accidentally block the Face ID sensors when I pick it up. The result is that I can’t get into my iPad without typing in my PIN or trying Face ID again.
The new iPad Air gets around this issue — by regressing to Touch ID. In setting up Touch ID on the iPad Air, Apple will prompt you to provide two fingerprints. This makes it easy to get into your iPad with your left or right hand, in horizontal or vertical orientation. It would be nice if Apple included this, as well as Face ID, on the iPad Pro , so you’re never without a way to quickly and easily get into the device. Or, it could include Face ID sensors on both the top and the right sides. That’s hardly an elegant solution, though.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Of course, iPads are really just big displays — and this big display looks great.
 It has inky blacks despite the lack of OLED tech, and the 120Hz refresh rate makes animations and scrolling feel incredibly smooth. Playing games is an immersive experience, while movies look absolutely stunning. I really have zero complaints about the display. Eventually, it’s likely the iPad Pro will get an OLED panel, and that will be a nice upgrade when it happens. But in using the current-gen iPad Pro’s display, you’re not going to feel like you’re missing anything.
Performance and battery life The 2020 iPad Pro offers an A12Z Bionic chip, which is a heavy-lifting 8-core processor that can handle pretty much anything you’ll throw at it. That includes heavy multitasking. As mentioned, I use my iPad Pro as a replacement for my laptop, and that often involves having Microsoft Word open, with sometimes dozens of Safari tabs also open, and even Microsoft Teams and Slack open and accessible in Slideover. It all runs pretty smoothly, and while it sometimes takes a beat to load an app after it has been closed for a while, it hardly takes you out of the experience, and it’s usually only a second at most.
Mobile gaming is equally impressive. I admit, I’m not a huge gamer, but casual playing of Call of Duty: Mobile and Ark: Mobile offers a great experience. Graphics looked good, games were responsive, and so on. Add in the support for DualShock 4 and Xbox controllers, and you’ve got a solid on-the-go setup. Hopefully, the setup will get even more powerful with game-streaming services.
Of course, we’ll have to wait and see if performance truly holds up. Rumor has it that Apple is prepping iOS and iPadOS versions of its “Pro” apps, including the likes of Final Cut Pro, Logic Pro, and so on. If that turns out to be true — and that’s a big if — it will bring iPad performance demands to the next level. I’m someone that will make use of those apps, and if the iPad handles them well, it will seriously help cement the iPad as a viable laptop replacement for myself and many others.
The battery life on the iPad Pro is also solid. In productivity use, the iPad Pro lasted me through a full, 10-hour workday, with around 20% of the battery remaining at the end of the day. That’s far better than most laptops. In gaming, battery life won’t quite reach those heights, but it’s still good, and should last through most basic gaming sessions. If you’re particularly good at plugging things in when you’re not using them, as I am, you shouldn’t really run into many issues at all.
iPadOS 14 Apple’s iPadOS 14 is great — but if you end up using the iPad Pro as a replacement for a laptop, it takes some getting used to.
It’s the small things that matter here. Using Finder on the Mac and using the Files app on the iPad are pretty different experiences. They’re getting increasingly similar, but they’re not the same yet. That’s even more true if you use third-party cloud storage services, though Google Drive works pretty well on the Files app.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Likewise, multitasking on the iPad is a very different experience from the Mac. Both iPadOS and MacOS offer excellent multitasking features, and for a mobile device, the iPad’s current slate of multitasking tools is excellent. You can relatively easily set up a split-screen view with two apps, and if you’re open to new ways of multitasking, Slideover is perfect for things like quick notes, chats, and so on, making good use of a relatively small screen.
But it’s not the same as being able to place windows where you want them, have multiple desktops open, and so on. And to manage it all, you have to remember an incredible amount of very specific gestures and movements. Worse yet, the iPad still doesn’t offer full support for external monitors.
True productivity Just buying an iPad Pro, unfortunately, isn’t really enough to make it a productivity machine. After all, if you type as much as I do, using the iPad Pro’s software keyboard isn’t a viable option. That’s where accessories come in, and I’ve chosen Apple’s way-too-expensive first-party accessories for the task.
But I have to say, you get what you pay for.
The Magic Keyboard works great. The typing experience is high-end, and the trackpad, as on the MacBook lineup, beats most Windows laptop trackpads (and most third-party accessory trackpads) by a mile. I do miss function keys — on the Mac, they serve as quick and easy ways to control media, brightness, and so on, and without them you have to reach for your trackpad or your actual display, which is a little jarring when you’re in the zone. But it’s still manageable, and I would rather have keys this size and no function keys than smaller keys to fit an extra row. And popular keyboard shortcuts can fill in some gaps.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Apple Pencil works pretty great, too.
 Not everyone needs one, but with new features like Scribble, its appeal is wider than ever. Scribble essentially turns your iPad into a handwritten notes machine, converting your writing into digital text on the fly. It’s a great system.
It’s a bit of a shame that all that costs so much. For the iPad Pro, you’re starting at $800. Add in a $300 Magic Keyboard and a $130 second-gen Apple Pencil, and the cost is up to a hefty $1,230. That’s well above the price of an entry-level MacBook Air, and could easily get you a refurbished MacBook Pro 13.
But for me, it’s still worth it. In the era of COVID, even before getting rid of my laptop, it sat on the shelf for over a month at a time. I enjoy using the iPad Pro, so I’m more likely to use it away from my desk, outside, or on the couch. Add in all the benefits of having an iPad, like the ability to watch movies or play games in bed, read the news in the morning, and so on, and you’ve got a much more versatile device on (or in) your hands.
Should you buy the 2020 iPad Pro? I’ve spent 1,400 words lauding the iPad Pro. So you would assume I’d recommend buying one. Nah.
Pretty much everything that I’ve noted is great about the 2020 iPad Pro is equally as great about the 2020 iPad Air — and for $200 less. A modern design and beautiful display? Check. Top-end performance? Yep. iPadOS 14? You’re all set. It even supports the Magic Keyboard and Apple Pencil.
The iPad Pro is an incredible machine, but unless you really want 120Hz and a dual-sensor camera, it’s worth sticking with the iPad Air , or waiting until Apple truly differentiates the Pro line from the new Air. That could take a while, though.
If you do end up getting that 120Hz-equipped iPad Pro, you’ll still love it. Sure, your wallet will be a little lighter than if you had bought the iPad Air, but you’ll still have a capable, high-end machine that will last for years (and years) to come. One thing worth mentioning is how you can spare your wallet by waiting until the Black Friday iPad deals.
Editors' Recommendations The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 I love Apple, but it’s totally wrong about iMessage and RCS I figured out how to protect my iPhone without an ugly case Apple needs to fix the iPad I turned my iPhone into one of 2023’s coolest Android phones Apple Apple Apple iPad Mobile Every fall, there’s lots of pumpkin spice, spooks, and flagship phones from Google and Apple. This year, Google released the powerful Google Pixel 8 Pro, while Apple upped the ante with the iPhone 15 Pro.
While the Google Pixel 8 Pro is more comparable to the iPhone 15 Pro Max, we wanted to see how it would do against the smaller iPhone 15 Pro as well. After all, the regular iPhone 15 Pro is still considered a flagship, and both phones share the same $999 price tag.
Mobile iPhone 15 Pro Max Andy Boxall / Digital Trends How do you flex the camera chops of your flagship phone? Use it to shoot the entire launch event for flagship laptops. Or that’s apparently what Apple thinks. The company’s Scary Fast event last night was shot on an iPhone 15 Pro Max, and it’s quite a solid statement to rest the fate of a product reveal that brings in billions of dollars for Apple each quarter.
Mobile Apple iPhone 15 Pro Max (left) and Apple iPhone 15 Plus Andy Boxall / Digital Trends An iPhone 15 with a big screen is calling your name, and this year you really do have a choice of two. The iPhone 15 Pro Max has grabbed headlines with its titanium body and improved camera, but the iPhone 15 Plus has the same size screen and is $200 cheaper; plus, it’s a great phone overall.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
