Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides How to buy the iPad Pro (2021) By Tyler Lacoma Close Apple’s new iPad Pro (2021) is here for 2021, officially making the leap to Apple’s in-house M1 chip and sporting an upgraded Liquid Retina XDR screen with HDR support. It also has 5G compatibility, Thunderbolt and USB4 support, new camera features … everything you would want in a new iPad, basically. So it’s not surprising if you already want to buy one.
Availability date and pricing Buying from Apple Alternative option: Wait for the big retailers Looking for deals Here’s everything to know about availability and what to expect if you’re looking to purchase the iPad Pro in either the 11-inch or 12.9-inch size.
Availability date and pricing Image used with permission by copyright holder The new M1 iPad Pro started shipping in the final weeks of May and is now broadly available at a variety of sites, as well as Apple’s own site, which has the best customization and personalization options for ordering your iPad. But let’s take a look at pricing: This time around, there are two different versions of the iPad Pro with significantly different pricing between the models.
iPad Pro 11-inch (2021) pricing: $799 to $2,099 (financing starts at $66.58 per month).
iPad Pro 12.9-inch (2021) pricing: $1,099 to $2,399 (financing starts at $91.58 per month).
Buying from Apple Image used with permission by copyright holder Buying right from Apple is the most direct approach for pre-ordering and the best way to ensure you get all available customization options as well as avoid potential shipping delays. Here’s what to do.
It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade These 5 iPhone 15 problems are annoying. Here’s how to fix them Best iPad deals: Save on 10.2-inch iPad, iPad Pro, and more Step 1: Head to Apple’s iPad Pro webpage and choose your size. The first and most important choice for your pre-order is deciding what size iPad Pro you want. The 11-inch version comes with the more traditional Liquid Retina display, while the 12.9-inch version bumps up screen size and upgrades to the new Liquid Retina XDR display.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 2: Make other specification choices. Here’s what you can choose during customization: Finish: This time, the iPad Pro is limited to Space Gray and silver.
Storage: There are five storage options for the iPad Pro’s solid-state drive, ranging from 128GB to 2TB. This is another spec that has a large impact on price.
Connectivity: Either Wi-Fi only or add Cellular support if you have a compatible data plan.
Accessories: Take a look at our own recommendations and look at Apple’s accessory store for any other devices you may need, like a keypad or the Apple Pencil. Note that accessories are sized differently for the 11-inch versus the 12.9-inch versions of the iPad Pro, so buy accordingly.
Step 3: Add engraving and AppleCare+ if necessary. These are optional steps depending on how you feel about personalization and adding more warranty protection.
Step 4: Place your order. Select the Add to Bag button at the bottom to finalize your choices and then Review Bag to Check Out and make your payment. Note that Apple is good at storing your specification selections if you want to save this webpage for a later visit after making your choices.
Alternative option: Wait for the big retailers Best Buy If you don’t want to order from Apple, other major retailers are also allowing orders from their own sites. You may prefer this option if you have a gift card for a specific retailer or an account where you can earn customer rewards. You can check availability at any time by visiting their iPad results, linked below: Amazon iPads Best Buy iPads Adorama iPads Newegg iPads Looking for deals Image used with permission by copyright holder Finding a deal on an Apple device can be a challenge, but there are a few tactics you try if saving money is part of your plan.
Look for education deals: Apple is offering some excellent education discounts for the iPad Pro (2021), which you can find in the education pricing section.
 Current or newly accepted college students, their parents, faculty or staff for any school grade, and homeschool teachers all qualify for a $749 deal on the 11-inch iPad Pro and a $999 deal for the 12.9-inch model.
Trading in older Apple devices: One of the most direct ways to save is to trade in a current Apple device when you are upgrading to your new iPad Pro to immediately apply a rebate to the purchase. Apple allows you to do this when you pre-order, although you will have to have the device details handy.
Look for iPad deals from carriers: While iPad deals aren’t as common as smartphone deals among phone carriers, you can still find them. In this case, if you buy the cellular version of the 2021 iPad Pro and activate it with AT&T, T-Mobile, or Verizon, you can get up to $200 back. Check your own carrier for individual details when the time comes! Wait for store discounts: For a spring release, discounts aren’t likely to hit the new iPad right away. But if you are willing to bide your time, you can look for store discounts or included freebies as big shopping days approach (Memorial Day, for example). Note that this can always vary: Amazon, for example, had a $50 discount on the iPad Pro only a few days after it was made available, although deals like this tend to sell out immediately, so setting up alerts may be a good idea.
Editors' Recommendations The iPad is going to get an amazing new feature in 2024 Best tablet deals: Save on iPad, Galaxy Tab, Fire tablet, and more The best iPhone 15 Pro Max cases in 2023: the 20 best ones Apple did something surprising with the iPhone last night The best tablets in 2023: top 11 tablets you can buy now Apple Buying Guides How-To Apple Apple iPad Buying Guides Mobile Apple has been relatively silent since announcing the iPhone 15 series and new Apple Watches in September. However, there are rumors that new iPads could be announced soon. Although Apple didn't announce any new iPads on October 17 as originally suspected, it's evident that new iPads are likely coming at some point in the near future.
As the announcement will almost certainly be made through an online press release, not a full-blown press event, you might think these updates won't be significant. Still, this news could not have come at a better time for those planning to buy an iPad, as the holiday buying season is starting to ramp up.
Mobile Rumors have suggested Apple may announce new iPads soon. Before that might happen, the company has surprised us all and announced a new Apple Pencil. Its placement in the rest of the Apple Pencil lineup could cause confusion, however.
The Apple Pencil (USB-C) — that's the official name — is a stylus that works with any iPad with a USB-C port. This includes the iPad Pro 12.9-inch (3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th generation), iPad Pro 11-inch (1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th generation), iPad Air (4th and 5th generation), iPad mini (6th generation), and iPad (10th generation).
Mobile Let's face it, a charger is probably the most important accessory you'll ever buy for your iPhone. After all, most of us need to charge our iPhones at least once a day — sometimes even more — so it's important to have the right chargers around to get the job done.
Thankfully, the popularity of the iPhone means there's no shortage of options for both wired and wireless charging — and you have even more now that the iPhone 15 has finally made the switch to USB-C.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
