Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Google Pixel Black Friday deals: Pixel 8, Pixel Watch, Pixel Buds and more By Aaron Mamiit Close Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Google’s popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds — and they’re all available with eye-catching discounts in this year’s Black Friday deals.
 if you’ve had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we’ve rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals Google Pixel Buds Black Friday deals Google Pixel Phone Black Friday deals Google Pixel Tablet Black Friday deals Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It’s still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google’s Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Google Pixel Watch Active Band — Google Pixel Watch (Refurbished) — Google Pixel Watch — Google Pixel Buds Black Friday deals Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends The Google Pixel Buds line of wireless earphones and earbuds is is the perfect companion for Google’s mobile devices. The Google Pixel Buds Pro , in particular, are highlighted in our list of the best true wireless earbuds as the new standard for Android users because they’re comfortable to wear, offer excellent sound quality, and come with effective active noise cancellation. If they’re what you want, or you’re thinking about getting a cheaper variant, act fast before the discounts disappear. Consider some of the other options in Black Friday headphone deals.
Google Pixel Buds — Google Pixel Buds A-Series (Renewed) — Google Pixel Buds A-Series — Google Pixel Buds Pro — Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Google Pixel Phone Black Friday deals Andy Boxall / Digital Trends When you mention Google Pixel deals , the first thing most people will think about are the line’s Android-powered Pixel smartphones. Surprisingly, the Google Pixel 8 , which is among the latest versions of the device, is already on sale for Black Friday. There are other cheaper alternatives available though, including refurbished models that you can consider if you’re on a tight budget.
Google Pixel 6 (128GB, Renewed) — Google Pixel 6 (128GB) — Google Pixel 6 Pro (128GB) — Google Pixel 7a (128GB) — Google Pixel 7 Pro (128GB, Renewed) — Google Pixel 8 (128GB) — Google Pixel 8 *256GB) — Google Pixel 8 Pro — Google Pixel Fold (unlocked) — Google Pixel Tablet Black Friday deals Andy Boxall / Digital Trends There’s currently only one Google tablet on sale for Black Friday tablet deals.
 You get your choice between white or black on the Google Pixel Tablet with a charging dock. Also check out Nest Black Friday deals for more smart home setups, which you can control through a tablet.
Google Pixel Tablet — with charging speaker and dock (white) — Google Pixel Tablet — with charging speaker and dock (black) — Editors' Recommendations 75 best Amazon Black Friday deals on laptops, TVs, Apple, and more Best Black Friday smartwatch deals: Apple, Samsung, Garmin, and more Best iPad Black Friday deals: iPad Mini, iPad Air, iPad Pro, and more The best Samsung tablet Black Friday deals — from only $100 Best refurbished Apple Black Friday deals on AirPods, iPads, iPhones, and more Audio / Video Deals Amazon Headphones Wearables Mobile Black Friday deals mean plenty of chances to save big on new gadgets you might want such as a new Fitbit. Fitbits are one of the best ways to track all your steps, calories burned, and all kinds of other things so you can work towards becoming the best you that you can be. Throughout the year, there are plenty of Fitbit deals around but things get extra special during the holidays season. We've picked out some of the best Fitbit Black Friday deals around below, some that rival the best Black Friday Apple Watch deals and Garmin Watch Black Friday deals. Further down, we've also looked at what you need to know about them so you choose the right one for you this Black Friday.
Best Fitbit Black Friday deals Fitbit Ace 3 -- Mobile For active tech fans, a Garmin Watch is near essential. The best Garmin Watches are generally more robust than the average smartwatch and they're designed with an active lifestyle in mind. That means better navigation features, better tracking of whatever it is you're doing, and even training plans to help you perfect that marathon you're aiming towards. Some of the best smartwatches around for avid runners, swimmers, or hikers, it's great to see some awesome Black Friday deals pop up for those seeking Garmin watches. We've picked out the very best Black Friday smartwatch deals around and listed them below.
Best Garmin Watch Black Friday deal Garmin Forerunner 255 GPS Smartwatch -- $250, was $350 The Garmin Forerunner 255 GPS Smartwatch is primarily a running watch and perfect for helping you train for your next big race. Not only does it tell you how far and how hard to run but its training plans also encourage you to rest, planning out periods of time for recovery. An impressive 14 days of battery life in smartwatch mode or up to 30 hours in GPS mode mean no need to charge so often compared to regular smartwatches.
Mobile If you already own the new Apple iPhone 15 or any of its variants but you're still stuck with a basic case, it's highly recommended that you take advantage of this year's Black Friday deals to enjoy some savings on a much-needed upgrade. Not only should you be providing the necessary protection for your iPhone 15 to keep it unscathed, but it would be a huge bonus to place it in a case that looks stylish and matches your personality. However, there's a problem -- there are thousands of iPhone 15 case deals that are available for Black Friday, so it's going to be very hard to narrow down your choices. That won't stop us from trying though, so you should read on.
Best iPhone 15 case Black Friday deal For serious protection without making your iPhone 15 too heavy, you should go for the OtterBox Commuter Series, which is on sale in Amazon's early Black Friday deals for $35 instead of $40. The $5 discount may not look like much, but it's a welcome bonus for what we've tagged as the best rugged case in our roundup of the best iPhone 15 cases. It's capable of withstanding three times the military standards for drop protection with a hybrid dual-layer construction that combines recycled rubber with a rigid outer shell, but it stays slim and lightweight so your iPhone 15 won't feel like a brick in your hands. We're not sure if this lowered price will remain online through to the shopping holiday, so you should think about making the purchase right now.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
