Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides How to download Android 14 on your phone right now By Jesse Hollington Close Earlier this year, Google began offering developer previews of Android 14 for folks who wanted a very preliminary look at what the next major release of Android has to offer. While those initial developer previews weren't for the faint of heart, they were available for anyone to install — as long as you were willing to jump through a few hoops to risk running a very unstable release that could potentially brick your phone.
Confirm your phone is compatible with Android 14 Back up your phone Enroll in the Android beta program Install the Android 14 beta over the air How to prepare your phone to sideload Android 14 How to install Android 14 using the Android Flash Tool Thankfully, we're now past that early preview period.
The first official Android 14 beta arrived in April , beginning a cycle of public beta releases that should be much more accessible for anyone who wants to try out Android 14 in advance of the final release later this year.
Difficulty Duration What You Need A Google Pixel 4a 5G or newer A computer running Windows, macOS, or Linux with Google Chrome and 10GB of available storage (optional) A compatible USB cable (optional) While the Android 14 developer previews had to be installed over a wired connection from a PC, public Android 14 betas can be installed over-the-air (OTA), just like any other Android update. But don't be fooled by this easy installation process — Android 14 is still beta software, and we're still in the early stages. While it's unlikely to blow up your phone, you should still expect glitches, half-baked features, and other oddities at this point in the beta cycle.
Unless you enjoy living on the edge, we'd recommend steering clear of installing it on any phone you depend on — especially this early in the game. The recent betas may be more easily available, but they're still intended primarily to help developers get their apps ready.
 Most developers have secondary devices they can install betas on for testing purposes. Google makes it clear that these betas "may contain errors and defects that can affect the normal functioning of your device." We're only at the second Android 14 beta out of several more that are expected to arrive over the next few weeks, and you can jump in at any time. Google expects to reach "platform stability" by June, which is the stage where the betas should be more polished and stable as Android 14 moves closer to its final release.
Nevertheless, whether you want to forge ahead into the world of Android 14 betas today or further down the road, here's how to go about it.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Confirm your phone is compatible with Android 14 Sorry, Samsung and Motorola fans; whether it's developer previews or public betas, Google only makes prerelease Android versions directly available for its Pixel phones. In this case, that's the Pixel 4a 5G, Pixel 5, Pixel 5a, Pixel 6 , Pixel 6 Pro , Pixel 6a , Pixel 7 , and Pixel 7 Pro , and the just-released Pixel 7a.
With the release of the second public beta, several other Android device makers opened their own Android 14 beta programs — including OnePlus, Oppo, Nothing, RealMe, and Xiaomi, to name a few. However, Google will not be providing the Android 14 betas directly for these devices; enrollments and support are the responsibility of each device maker, and each has its own unique requirements and process for installing the Android 14 beta on its particular devices. In most cases, the steps are more complicated than Google's over-the-air updates for its Pixel phones. Supported devices from other partners may also be more limited; for instance, the Android 14 beta is available exclusively for this year's OnePlus 11.
To keep things simple, we're only covering the steps required to install the Android 14 betas on Google's Pixel phones. You can find instructions for how to install the Android 14 beta on other compatible phones on each manufacturer's website; links to these are available from Google's list of supported Android devices.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Back up your phone It's always a good idea to back up your phone before installing any major Android release, and that's doubly true when working with beta releases. Since we're talking mostly about Pixel phones here, your device is likely already backing itself up to the cloud automatically. You can confirm this in our guide on how to back up your Android smartphone.
This backup is particularly important when installing the Android 14 beta, as there's no easy way back to Android 13. If the beta isn't working out for you, the only way you'll be able to return to Android 13 is by wiping your phone entirely. Also, as Google makes abundantly clear , you won't be able to use a backup of the Android 14 beta once you go back to Android 13. In other words, if you go back to Android 13 and want to try the Android 14 beta again, you’ll need to start over from scratch.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Enroll in the Android beta program To begin receiving Android 14 betas over the air, you'll need to enroll your device in the Android beta program. Note that Google doesn't distinguish between Quarterly Platform Release (QPR) betas and major Android releases — it's the same beta program for both. If you're already enrolled for Android 13 QPR betas , the first Android 14 beta should already be waiting for you under software updates, so you can skip this section.
Step 1: Visit https://www.google.com/android/beta using a browser of your choice (preferably Chrome, but any modern browser should work).
Step 2: Select Sign In and sign in to the Google account used on your Pixel phone.
Step 3: Scroll down to the section for Your Eligible Devices.
Step 4: Select the blue Opt in button below the Pixel phone you would like to install the Android 14 beta onto.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Install the Android 14 beta over the air Once your device is enrolled, this and future Android 14 betas will appear through the same over-the-air software process as other Android updates.
Step 1: Open the Settings app on your Pixel phone.
Step 2: Scroll down and select System.
Step 3: Select System update.
 You should see a Beta version of Android 14 appear as an available update.
Step 4: Select the Download & Install button.
The Android 14 beta will be downloaded and installed like any other Android software update. You can continue using your phone while this happens in the background; once it's finished, your phone will reboot, and you'll be running Android 14.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends How to prepare your phone to sideload Android 14 While enrolling your Pixel for automatic OTA updates is by far the easiest method to install the Android 14 beta, it's not the only way to go. You can also opt for the old-fashioned way: using a computer and a USB cable. This could be handy if you're having problems with the OTA update or if you simply don't have a sufficient data connection to handle the 2GB download.
For security reasons, Pixel phones don't normally allow updates to be installed over the USB port, so if you choose to go this route, you'll need to prep your phone first.
Step 1: Open the Settings app on your Pixel.
Step 2: Scroll down and select About Phone.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 3: Scroll down to the Build number at the bottom and tap it seven times.
 After you've selected it a few times, you should see a message pop up indicating that You are now x steps away from being a developer.
 This will count down with each tap.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 4: Enter your PIN when prompted. You'll be returned to the About screen, where you should see a message that You are now a developer.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 5: Select the arrow in the top-left corner or swipe right to return to the previous settings menu.
Step 6: Select System.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 7: Select Developer options.
Step 8: Locate the OEM unlocking option and select the switch to toggle it on.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 9: When prompted, enter your PIN.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 10: From the pop-up dialogue that appears, select Enable to confirm.
Step 11: Locate the USB debugging option and select the switch to toggle it on.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 12: From the pop-up dialogue that appears, select OK to confirm.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends How to install Android 14 using the Android Flash Tool Once your Pixel's bootloader has been unlocked and it's ready to accept USB transfers, you can install the Android 14 beta. While there are a few ways to do this, the simplest is to use Google's Android Flash Tool, which can be run directly in your Chrome browser.
Step 1: Open the Android Flash Tool by visiting flash.android.com in Google Chrome.
Step 2: Select Get Started.
Step 3: If you're using Chrome on Windows, you may also be prompted to download and install an Android USB Driver. Select Download Android USB Driver and follow the instructions or choose Already installed if you're sure you've done this before.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 4: A pop-up window should appear next, asking you to grant access to ADB keys. Select Allow ADB access to continue.
If this pop-up doesn't appear, check your Chrome settings to ensure you're not blocking pop-ups for flash.android.com and select the Show Dialogue Again button.
Step 5: Once you arrive at the Installing build screen, plug your Pixel into your computer using a compatible USB-C cable and select Add new device.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 6: Choose your Pixel from the list of devices and select Connect.
Jesse Hollington / Digital Trends Step 7: On your Pixel, authorize the connection by checking the Always allow from this computer option and selecting Allow.
The Android Flash Tool on your computer should update to show your Pixel as connected.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 8: Select the first Beta 1 option under Android 14 Preview Releases.
Note the default options: Wipe, Lock, and Force Flash. You can modify these by clicking the pencil tool, which, in theory, should allow you to install the Android 14 Beta without wiping your device. We don't recommend counting on that, though.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Step 9: Select Install build to begin installing the Android 14 Beta.
The installation process will take some time to complete, so grab a coffee and give it a while. Once it's finished, your Pixel should automatically reboot and show the Android 14 welcome screen.
While early Android betas should be more stable than the extremely early developer previews, they're still not fully baked, so think twice before taking the plunge, especially during these first few weeks. You're almost certain to run into unexpected behavior and new features that aren't quite finished. You'll probably take a noticeable hit on battery life, too.
Fortunately, installing the Android 14 Beta isn't a one-way trip. If you decide that things aren't going as well as you hoped, you can return to the warmer and safer embrace of Android 13, but you'll need to wipe your device to do so.
If you enrolled your device to receive OTA betas, you can return to the Android Beta for Pixel page and unenroll your device by selecting Opt out — this will send you another OTA update for the last stable release of Android 13. However, installing that OTA update will wipe your device, forcing you to either start fresh or restore from the last backup made using Android 13.
Alternatively, you can use the steps for the Android Flash Tool described above and choose the Back to public option to factory reset your device to the latest public build.
And if you don't want to mess with the betas at all yet, you can also just wait to see when the final release of Android 14 is coming to your phone.
Editors' Recommendations Google is finally fixing an annoying issue with its Pixel phones When is my phone getting Android 14? Here’s everything we know Don’t update your Pixel phone — a new Android update might break it The best Android phones in 2023: the 16 best ones you can buy The best folding phones in 2023: the 6 best you can buy Android Google Google Pixel How-To Guides Mobile The foldable smartphone market is still very niche, but it has been gaining steam in recent years. OnePlus has just joined the fray with the new OnePlus Open, but it faces a lot of competition from Samsung, as well as from the new Google Pixel Fold.
For OnePlus and Google, this is their first foray into foldables, while Samsung has had five years of experience. So, how do the OnePlus Open and Google Pixel Fold fare against each other, as they are both newcomers to the foldable scene? Let’s find out.
OnePlus Open vs. Google Pixel Fold: specs Mobile Can the Google Pixel 8 Pro even Survive 7 YEARS?! - Durability Test! Another new smartphone means another new durability test from Zack Nelson of the popular YouTube channel JerryRigEverything.
Mobile After lots of anticipation, Android 14 has landed. For the past few months, we've experimented with Android 14 on a Google Pixel 7a. Surprisingly, the latest major iteration of Google’s mobile operating system is light on aesthetics and dramatic feature additions. Instead, it focuses more on refinements, especially for large-screen devices.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
