Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Products iPhone 15 vs. iPhone 14: Do you need to upgrade? By Prakhar Khanna Close Prakhar Khanna / Digital Trends Apple’s new iPhone 15 packs a slew of upgrades that make the base iPhone more compelling than ever. While the iPhone 14 was a minor iterative update over its predecessor, Apple has gone all-in on the regular model this year.
iPhone 15 vs. iPhone 14: specs iPhone 15 vs. iPhone 14: design and display iPhone 15 vs. iPhone 14: performance, battery life, and charging iPhone 15 vs. iPhone 14: cameras iPhone 15 vs. iPhone 14: software and updates iPhone 15 vs. iPhone 14: special features iPhone 15 vs. iPhone 14: price and availability iPhone 15 vs. iPhone 14: is it time for you to upgrade? Although you don’t get a ProMotion display, which is disappointingly still limited to the iPhone 15 Pro and Pro Max, there are plenty of upgrades to talk about. Here’s what you need to know if you are wondering about the differences between the iPhone 15 and the iPhone 14, and whether or not you should upgrade.
iPhone 15 vs. iPhone 14: specs iPhone 15 iPhone 14 Size 147.6 x 71.6 x 7.8mm (5.81 x 2.82 x 0.31 inches) 146.7 x 71.5 x 7.8mm (5.78 x 2.81 x 0.31 inches) Weight 171 grams (6.02 ounces) 172 grams (6.07 ounces) Screen size 6.1-inch Super Retina OLED 6.1-inch Super Retina OLED Screen resolution 2532 x 1170 pixels (460 pixels per inch) 2532 x 1170 pixels (460 pixels per inch) Operating system iOS 17 iOS 16 (upgradeable to iOS 17) Storage 128GB, 256GB, 512GB 128GB, 256GB, 512GB MicroSD card slot No No Tap-to-pay services Apple Pay Apple Pay Processor Apple A16 Bionic Apple A15 Bionic RAM 6GB 4GB Camera Dual-lens 48MP wide and 12MP ultrawide rear, 12MP TrueDepth front Dual-lens 12MP wide and 12MP ultrawide rear, 12MP TrueDepth front Video 4K at up to 60 frames per second, 1080p at 240 fps 4K at up to 60 fps, 1080p at 240 fps Bluetooth version Bluetooth 5.3 Bluetooth 5.3 Ports USB-C Lightning connector Fingerprint sensor No, Face ID instead No, Face ID instead Water resistance IP68 IP68 Battery Fast charging (20W charger sold separately) MagSafe wireless charging (15W) Qi wireless charging (7.5W) Fast charging (20W charger sold separately) MagSafe wireless charging (15W) Qi wireless charging (7.5W) App marketplace Apple App Store Apple App Store Network support All major carriers All major carriers Colors Pink, Yellow, Green, Blue, Black Midnight, Purple, Starlight, Blue, Red, Yellow Prices Starts at $699 Starts at $799 Best refurbished Apple Black Friday deals on AirPods, iPads, iPhones, and more How I use my Apple Watch and iPhone to manage my diabetes The iPhone is getting out of control iPhone 15 vs. iPhone 14: design and display 1.
iPhone 15 with Dynamic Island 2.
iPhone 14 with notch The iPhone 15 is a bit taller than the previous-gen iPhone (5.81 inches versus 5.78 inches). Both the devices feature an aluminum build with a glass back, but the new iPhone has an updated color-infused design.
It retains the IP68 dust and water protection , so you can submerge it to a maximum depth of 6 meters for up to 30 minutes.
The most prominent design change can be seen on the front with the introduction of the Dynamic Island on the iPhone 15.
 Instead of a notch, you now get a pill-shaped cutout on the top of the display that houses the sensors for Face ID. It not only looks better but brings in functionalities for a better user experience. The display lies under the protection of Apple’s Ceramic Shield, which is the same as in previous years.
Both smartphones feature a 6.1-inch OLED True Tone display with a 60Hz refresh rate. While that’s disappointing, the good news is that the iPhone 15 can go up to 2,000 nits peak brightness versus 1,200 nits on the iPhone 14. As a result, it should be easier to browse things on the new iPhone in bright sunlight.
Apple The iPhone 15 comes in five color options: pink, yellow, green, blue, and black. There is no Product Red this year. Similarly, the iPhone 14 was released in five color variants, but with different tones, and a yellow variant was released earlier this year.
Both devices feature the same iconic ring-silent switch since the new Action button is limited to the iPhone 15 Pro series. Plus, the iPhone 15 retains MagSafe, so all of your magnetic accessories from the iPhone 12, iPhone 13, and iPhone 14 will be compatible with the new phone.
The iPhone 15 packs an upgrade in both design and display with the Dynamic Island , increased brightness, and a different color-infused glass back. It may not be a revolutionary upgrade, but these are still very welcome changes.
iPhone 15 vs. iPhone 14: performance, battery life, and charging Apple The iPhone 15 doesn’t stop at the Dynamic Island and brighter display when it comes to borrowing things from last year’s Pro series of iPhones. It also gets the A16 Bionic chipset that offers a GPU that is 50% more powerful than before, which should translate to smoother graphics for streaming videos and playing games.
The new processor is also 20% more efficient, but it remains to be seen how it fares in real-world usage – especially because Apple mentions the same numbers for battery life on the iPhone 15 and iPhone 14.
Both iPhones come in three storage variants: 128GB, 256GB, and 512GB. The wireless connectivity options include Bluetooth 5.3, Wi-Fi 6, and 5G.
 One of the most-anticipated transitions for iPhones has finally happened on the iPhone 15 with the replacement of the Lightning port with USB-C.
 However, it doesn’t take advantage of the port in terms of speed. You are still limited to USB 2, unlike the iPhone 15 Pro series that supports USB 3.
iPhone 15 vs. iPhone 14: cameras Apple The regular iPhones have stuck to 12MP primary cameras for years, but that’s changing with the iPhone 15. The latest Apple product sports an upgraded 48MP camera sensor that is accompanied by the same 12MP ultrawide-angle lens as before. On the front lies the same 12MP TrueDepth camera, but it offers better HDR.
A new sensor on the back also means new software features. The iPhone 15 offers better 2x zoom and the next-generation Portrait mode, where you can adjust the focus for different subjects, depending on the depth. You also no longer need to switch to Portrait mode to capture portrait photos. The iPhone 15 captures depth information on every photo, so you can turn a regular photo into a portrait via the Photos app on your iPhone, iPad, or Mac. Plus, you get better HDR on the new iPhone.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends Video recording remains the same, with options to capture 4K videos at 24 frames per second (fps), 25 fps, 30 fps, or 60 fps and 1080p HD videos at 25 fps, 30 fps, or 60 fps. You still get all the other goodies like Cinematic mode, Action mode, HDR video recording with Dolby Vision, and Slo-mo video support for 1080p at 120 fps or 240 fps.
The camera upgrade on iPhone 15 is a major feature to consider if you are looking to upgrade.
We hope Apple has fixed its HDR processing with its new HDR 5 for photos (versus HDR 4 for photos on the iPhone 14), though we’ll need to get our hands on the iPhone 15 before we can confirm if that has (or hasn’t) happened.
iPhone 15 vs. iPhone 14: software and updates Apple The iPhone 14 came with iOS 16 out-of-the-box, but can be updated to iOS 17 , which is what you get with the iPhone 15.
In terms of upgrades, the iPhone 15 is likely to be supported for one more year than the previous-gen product. However, Apple tends to roll out software updates to its devices for around six years, so it shouldn’t be an issue.
iPhone 15 vs. iPhone 14: special features iPhone 14 Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Both the iPhone 15 and iPhone 14 feature Emergency SOS via Satellite for when you are stranded in an area with no network, Crash Detection, and Roadside Assistance via Satellite.
The iPhone 15 features an upgraded second-generation Ultra Wideband (UWB) chip, which will come in handy for more accurate iPhone positioning when trying to look for it via the Find My app. In the U.S., you still don’t get a SIM tray and are limited to using eSIMs.
iPhone 15 vs. iPhone 14: price and availability Apple Despite the upgrades, Apple didn’t raise the price with the iPhone 15 . It still starts at $799, with the 256GB and 512GB models costing $899 and $1,099, respectively. The new Apple iPhone will be up for preorders starting September 15 and will officially go on sale starting September 22.
The iPhone 14 is sticking around in Apple’s iPhone lineup, and it now has a discounted starting price of $699 for 128GB of storage. You can also pay $799 for 256GB of storage or $999 for 512GB.
iPhone 15 vs. iPhone 14: is it time for you to upgrade? Apple The iPhone 15 announcement at Apple’s September 2023 event was a pleasant surprise, seeing how the company added more features to the iPhone 15 than we had expected. The iPhone 15 was rumored to get the Dynamic Island, a faster processor than the iPhone 14 Pro, and USB-C with some sort of camera upgrades. However, things like the 48MP sensor, better portraits and HDR, and a brighter display caught us off guard — and mean the iPhone 15 is the biggest non-Pro iPhone upgrade in years.
So, what does that mean for you if you already have an iPhone 14? While you probably don’t have to upgrade, there’s a lot waiting for you if you do. The Dynamic Island adds a whole new element of interaction to the phone, the camera should be a noticeable improvement, the brighter display will likely come in handy, and it’s hard to complain about a faster and more efficient processor.
The iPhone 15 isn’t an essential upgrade for iPhone 14 owners, but if you have some cash to spare and like what you see, it’s one of the better year-over-year upgrades we’ve seen in a while.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade It’s finally happening — your iPhone is getting RCS in 2024 How to unblock a number on your iPhone iOS 17: How to move notifications to the top of your lock screen One of our favorite Android phones just got its own iMessage app Apple Apple Events and Announcements Apple iPhone Versus Mobile Every year, we get a new iPhone; that’s just the way it goes. And one of the biggest upgrades each year is with the camera system.
Though the spotlight is typically on the Pro models of the iPhone, Apple gave us a pretty significant upgrade this year with the standard iPhone 15. Of course, it’s not as feature-packed as the iPhone 15 Pro, but Apple brought the Dynamic Island and USB-C to the regular iPhone 15, and even bumped up the camera to a whopping 48MP.
Mobile The iPhone has so many clever and fun little features that it's easy to miss some of them. One of the most whimsical features to come along in recent years is the ability to lift the subject of a photo away from the background so you can use it elsewhere — whether that's sharing it in an email, pasting it into a photo editing app, or even turning it into an iMessage sticker in iOS 17.
What's especially fascinating about this is that it seems like such a simple thing to do — and Apple does make it really easy — but there's a ton of number crunching going on under the hood to make it happen. This means you'll need an iPhone with a reasonably modern processor, but the good news is that it doesn't have to be the latest and greatest iPhone 15 Pro. While the insanely powerful A17 Pro chip in Apple's flagship smartphone surely helps things along, this feature can be used on any iPhone with an A12 Bionic chip or later, which goes back to the 2018 iPhone XS and iPhone XR.
Mobile I’ve been using an iPhone ever since 2008, starting with the original and then every generation since. For several years, the iPhone was only capable of SMS texting, with MMS support arriving with iOS 3 in 2009.
But in 2011, Apple created something new: iMessage. It first arrived on iOS and then went to the Mac in 2012 to replace iChat. iMessage is basically an instant messaging service that is exclusive to all Apple products: iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch, and Mac. You can send text, images and video, documents, rich preview links, stickers, and more between one another. You can also see if a message is delivered, send read receipts (if you want), and everything is encrypted. With iOS 16, you can even edit and unsend messages within a certain time frame.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
