Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Share Wi-Fi Password on iPhone How to Restart iPhone Screen Record on iPhone Back Up an iPhone Clear Cache on iPhone Share Location on iPhone Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Apple iPhone SE (2022) review: small in size, big in value By Andy Boxall and Jason Schneider Close $429.00 Compact and light Very powerful Touch ID works really well Wireless charging IP67 water resistance Poor battery life 60Hz screen 64GB won't be enough The iPhone SE (2022) is the smallest and cheapest brand new iPhone you can buy. Despite its low price and cutely anachronistic size, the SE has the same processor inside as the much more expensive iPhone 13 and iPhone 13 Pro , making it a temptation for anyone wanting to save money but not compromise on performance.
iPhone SE (2022) design iPhone SE (2022) display iPhone SE (2022) performance and software iPhone SE (2022) battery and storage iPhone SE (2022) camera Using the iPhone SE (2022) in 2023 with iOS 16.2 iPhone SE (2022) price and availability Our take on the iPhone SE (2022) However, you will have to make some compromises if you choose the little iPhone, and we’ve found out if it’s all worth it.
The iPhone’s futuristic satellite tech isn’t coming to Android any time soon These 5 iPhone 15 problems are annoying. Here’s how to fix them Apple used this free iPhone app to shoot Monday’s Scary Fast event iPhone SE (2022) design Andy Boxall/Digital Trends If you’re someone who needs everyone around you to know that you have the latest and greatest phone, then the design of the iPhone SE (2022) is not going to do you any favors. Apple’s technique for budget phones is to take an old phone — in this case, the iPhone 8 — and fill it with updated internals. The glass back and rounded aluminum sides are there, there’s only a single-camera system on the back, and it has a Touch ID fingerprint sensor on the front. In short, the phone looks like an iPhone from many years ago.
It’s not the worst thing. The iPhone SE (2022) has a few advantages over more modern iPhone models, and the most obvious is the size. This is one of the smallest smartphones you can buy today, and as such, it can be used with one hand very easily. It slips into most pockets, and because it’s just 7.3mm thick and 144 grams, you barely notice it’s there. For portability and convenience, there’s no other phone like the iPhone SE available today. I love the curved chassis too; it’s just so comfortable to grip, unlike the iPhone 14’s square, flat chassis.
Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Many people lament Apple’s swap from Touch ID to Face ID technology, and using the iPhone SE (2022) reminds you why. The fingerprint sensor is very fast and reliable, even with damp or greasy fingers, and is usable in all lighting conditions. It’s really easy to locate without looking or even adjusting your grip on the phone. It’s excellent and remains a joy to use. However, its presence comes with a caveat — bezels. Great, big bezels.
The iPhone SE is just so comfortable to grip, unlike the iPhone 14.
It’s the aspect of the iPhone SE (2022) I’ve found hardest to overcome, as the unused space above and below the screen feels completely unnecessary in 2023. The screen’s small as it is, but the bezels make it feel constrictive when typing, and watching video is far from the immersive, enjoyable experience it is on a big-screen phone. You get used to it, but given there are dozens of alternative phones out there which don’t have huge bezels, there’s always the thought that you needn’t put up with it at all.
There are three colors to choose from — the bright Product Red color, Midnight, and Starlight, and its this warm silvery color you see on the phone in our review.
iPhone SE (2022) display Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The iPhone SE (2022) has a 4.7-inch Retina HD screen, with a 1334 x 750 resolution and Apple’s True Tone color technology. The small size and modest resolution give it a pixel density of 326ppi, which matches the pixel density of Apple’s next cheapest new iPhone, the iPhone 11.
 However, it is way down on any of the most recent models, which have a sharper 476ppi pixel density.
It’ll come as no surprise that the screen feels small if you’re used to almost any other modern smartphone, but the quality and excellent color accuracy of the iPhone SE (2022)’s screen ensure it never looks outright bad. It’s considerably better than screens you’ll find on many cheap Android phones. I was also surprised to find it was great for playing games, once you learned to ignore the screen’s size.
The 60Hz refresh rate is perhaps the most disappointing aspect. Many Android phones around the same price as the iPhone SE (2022) have a higher refresh rate, resulting in smoother scrolling and less eye fatigue. It makes a difference, and if you’ve been used to a higher refresh rate, going back to a lower one is jarring.
 However, if you’ve not had the pleasure of using a 90Hz or 120Hz screen, this won’t be a problem. Finally, the screen doesn’t get very bright and struggles outside in sunlight. It’s fine indoors, though.
iPhone SE (2022) performance and software Previous Next 1 4 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends / Digital Trends The iPhone SE (2022) is fast. It has Apple’s A15 Bionic chip with a six-core CPU and a four-core GPU inside, the same as the iPhone 14. It’s as snappy and responsive as you’d expect, and it makes iOS absolutely fly. You really won’t be left wanting more speed from the small iPhone SE, and it can cope with all the tasks its bigger, more expensive siblings can. If you’re wondering how the iPhone SE (2022)’s small screen is for playing games, I played Diablo Immortal extensively, and was impressed with its ability to cope with the game’s requirements.
The other benefit of the A15 chip is that this phone will last for years, a big selling point for a budget phone, and it goes hand-in-hand with the excellent software. The iPhone SE (2022) should receive major updates for the next four or five years, which means you’ll get most of the new features (but not things like the recent Always-on screen , or features that require new hardware to work), security updates, and design changes for longer than most people would even consider keeping a phone.
It’s as snappy and responsive as you’d expect, and it makes iOS absolutely fly.
Using iOS is a breeze. Set up is simple and quick (even if you’re coming from an existing iPhone), the icons are all uniform and logical, there are widgets to make the multiple home screens more useful, and you get great features like Apple Pay and iCloud.
 I find iOS reliable, notifications arrive as they should, and even the pre-installed apps are perfectly adequate for most people — such as the Weather app, Voice Recorder, and Apple’s Music and Podcasts apps. It’s less customizable than Android, though, should you like changing the entire look of the software on a regular basis.
The iPhone SE (2022) connects to 5G networks, although it doesn’t support mmWave signals. I’ve had no issues with connectivity (whether it’s Wi-Fi, 4G, or 5G), and call quality is excellent. The phone’s Bluetooth is strong and reliable, and it connects instantly to Apple headphones using a quick and simple system where the phone knows when a device is nearby. It makes living with the phone very convenient, as does the software and overall performance.
iPhone SE (2022) battery and storage Andy Boxall/Digital Trends There’s no way around one simple fact: The iPhone SE (2022)’s battery is just too small to keep up with the A15 Bionic chip. It’s by far the biggest consideration for potential buyers. If you need the phone to last an entire day with higher than average use (meaning apps, video, games, photos, and calls, mostly on 4G or 5G), then the iPhone SE (2022) isn’t going to keep up. Games can rob the battery of 20% in less than an hour, and even with moderate use on Wi-Fi, don’t expect any more than a day from the iPhone SE’s battery.
You don’t get a charger in the box, and the phone supports up to 20W wired charging. Apple says its own compatible chargers top the battery up to 50% in 30 minutes, but you’re going to need up to 75 minutes for a full charge. There is wireless charging using the Qi standard, but no MagSafe, and wireless charging runs more slowly than the wired charging.
The iPhone SE (2022)’s battery is just too small.
Storage space is also another major consideration. The cheapest iPhone SE (2022) comes with 64GB of internal storage space, and that’s very small by modern standards. iOS takes up at least 10GB on its own, and games like Diablo Immortal can do the same, so it’s easy to see how quickly 64G would disappear. It’s better to buy one with more storage space, or be prepared to pay for iCloud storage in the future and delete apps, photos, and other content regularly.
I’ve also noticed when the iPhone SE (2022) is close to its storage limit, the battery life suffers even more. There are really no downsides to opting for the 128GB or 256GB version, outside of the higher initial price.
iPhone SE (2022) camera Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The iPhone SE (2022) has a single 12-megapixel, f/1.8 wide-angle camera, complete with Apple’s Smart HDR 4 and Deep Fusion technology — plus optical image stabilization. You can record at 4K resolution at up to 60 frames per second, and there’s an option to extend the dynamic range at lower frame rates. There’s no night mode, though, and the portrait mode is restricted to adding a blurred background to photos of people. The selfie camera has 7MP and a portrait mode, plus 1080p video recording.
It’s a good example of what a basic smartphone camera should be, as it takes good photos in regular conditions and decent photos in low light. It doesn’t have special features like a wide-angle camera or an optical zoom, so there’s a limit to the creative fun you can have with it. However, we’ve put the camera up against similarly priced Android phones with multiple cameras, and the iPhone SE (2022) more than holds its own.
Previous Next 1 12 Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Smartphone camera technology and ability have moved on a lot since the single-camera setup found on the iPhone 8, and while the iPhone SE (2022) is suitable for sharing photos online and taking photos on days out and on vacation, it’s not designed to compete with the iPhone 14 Pro.
 Provided a versatile, feature-packed camera is not your number one requirement from a phone, it should be enough. Just don’t expect it to satisfy if your requirements change.
Using the iPhone SE (2022) in 2023 with iOS 16.2 iPhone 14 Plus (left) and iPhone SE (2022) (right) Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Returning to the iPhone SE (2022) for a week at the beginning of 2023 has been an interesting experience.
Updated to iOS 16.2 , I wanted to see if the software had affected the previously poor battery life in any way, and I’m pleased to say it has slightly improved over the last time I used the phone. It’s still not great, and I haven’t gotten it to last longer than a single day, but that’s an improvement on before when I struggled to get to that point even with basic use.
But to be clear, it’s still not a phone suitable for heavy use. For example, if you watch a 30-minute YouTube video at 1080p, the battery drops by about 8%. Stream music and use apps for an hour, and it drops by around 15%. The battery’s tiny capacity means it will never deliver days of use before needing a recharge, but refinements in the software seem to make the most out of its ability. It’s still not a phone for “power” users, though.
The iPhone SE (2022) handles iOS 16.2 without a problem, and it operates just how you expect an iPhone to be: smooth, fast, and reliable. The camera is good, and it performed very well in a test against the iPhone 14 Plus , where I preferred the tone of its photos. It did the same when tested against the Samsung Galaxy A53 with its multi-camera system too. Holding such a small phone is still a novelty, but when so much of modern online life is multimedia-based, the screen’s size is only becoming more of a hindrance. This means it’s not just the battery that stops the iPhone SE (2022) from being a modern, media-friendly phone.
The iPhone SE (2022) certainly has its place and undoubtedly appeals to some, but the short battery life and small screen size continue to be limiting factors for people who want to watch videos and play games on their phones. If Apple decides to continue the iPhone SE line in the future, which rumors call into question, these aspects need serious attention if the phone is to remain relevant.
iPhone SE (2022) price and availability The Apple iPhone SE (2022) is available now through Apple’s online and retail stores and most carriers. The 64GB version costs $429, the 128GB version is $479, and the top 256GB model is $579. There are no differences between them apart from the amount of internal storage space.
Our take on the iPhone SE (2022) For some, the iPhone SE (2022) is the ideal smartphone as it’s compact, powerful, and affordable. Those are some seriously desirable qualities. Plus, when you add in Apple’s excellent build quality, long-term software support, and what is still a sleek design, the little phone makes a great deal of sense.
It’s just not a phone for power users. The battery doesn’t have the stamina to match the processing power, and the camera (although acceptable) is basic. Furthermore, the small screen size and 60Hz refresh rate don’t make it a multimedia superstar either. If you’re not worried about these aspects and choose wisely with the storage capacity, the iPhone SE (2022) is good value — and ideal for those who long for a powerful phone that can be comfortably held and used with one hand.
Is there a better alternative? If you want a cheap iPhone, the iPhone 12 is still sold new by Apple for $599 and it gives you the big-screen experience with Face ID that’s missing from the iPhone SE (2022). The iPhone 13 Mini is also available for $599. If you are interested in an iPhone with a more capable camera and a larger screen, we recommend looking at the iPhone 14 , but it starts at $799.
Choose an Android phone, and the choice at less than $500 is larger. We recommend the Samsung Galaxy A53 5G , the Google Pixel 6a , or the Nothing Phone 1 (if you live in a region where it’s sold). Each gives you a larger screen, but the processor won’t be as fast as the iPhone SE’s. Despite having more cameras, the performance of these phones may not always be superior.
How long will it last? The iPhone SE (2022) is made of glass, so you may want to use a case to protect it against drop damage. The good news is it has an IP67 water resistance rating, so it should survive a dunk in water for a short time, and have no problem with rain or sweat.
Apple supports its phones with software updates for many years, and the processing power inside the iPhone SE (2022) means it’ll have no problems with apps or general performance for a significant length of time. It’s highly advisable to buy a model with as much storage as you can afford, though. Do this, and the iPhone SE (2022) will happily last for two or three years. Just remember the design looks dated now and will look even older by that time.
Should you buy it? Yes, but don’t expect it to meet all your needs if you’re a power user. The iPhone SE (2022) has the performance and lastability of more expensive iPhone models and is the smallest, most portable iPhone you can buy, but the screen is as small as the battery capacity.
Editors' Recommendations It looks like the iPhone 16 will get a big design upgrade iPhone update fixes troublesome bug that broke NFC features for some users The best iPhone 15 Pro Max cases in 2023: the 20 best ones Apple did something surprising with the iPhone last night The best health and fitness apps for iPhone in 2023: 18 best ones Apple Apple iPhone iPhone and iPad Reviews Phone Reviews Product Reviews Mobile Apple released the iPhone 15 last month, with the new device offering two screen sizes of 6.1 inches and 6.7 inches.
The arrival of the latest iteration of the tech giant's popular handset saw the company banish from its online store the iPhone 13 Mini, which, as its name suggests, offers a smaller 5.4-inch display.
Mobile Waiting on an iPhone upgrade? Now is the time to pounce, as the newest additions to Apple's legendary roster were confirmed at its September 2023 event. The belles of the ball this year have to be the upgraded iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus models, which have finally received the design update the iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max received last year. Now equipped with the Dynamic Island across the hole-punch selfie camera, the gulf between the iPhone and iPhone Pro has lessened again.
If you're eagerly awaiting your upgrade, or if this is your first iPhone, you'll be wanting to keep it safe. Smartphones tend to be with us throughout our day, and that means they can fall prey to any one of a number of hazards. Bumps, drops, even scratches from sharing your pocket with keys or coins; the list is near endless. The last thing you want is for your new phone to end up scratched, chipped, or even completely broken. Thankfully, a good protective case can stop that from happening. Here are some of the best Apple iPhone 15 cases you can buy right now.
Mobile When you have the best iPhone, you pretty much have infinite possibilities for keepingbusy and entertained, no matter where you are. Sure, the iPhone may not be marketed as a gaming phone specifically, but it's pretty powerful — especially with the A17 Pro in the latest iPhone 15 Pro. That new processor means the Apple mobile gaming experience is only getting better and better, with Apple's new chip being able to play console-level games like Assassin's Creed Mirage and the Resident Evil 4 remake.
While those games aren't available yet, there's no shortage of great games to play. But when the App Store has over a million apps, how are you supposed to find the best games to play? Don't worry -- we're here to help! Since there are a ton of games out there — and not every game is a winner — it's definitely hard to find games that are worth your time and energy. Whether you're looking for a simple match 3, an MMORPG, a dungeon crawler, or even something to just relax with, here are the best iPhone games you can play right now.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
