Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra review: the best, most complete Android phone yet By Andy Boxall Close $1,199.00 Incredibly powerful processor Versatile telephoto zoom camera S Pen adds value Water-resistant and durable Long software update commitment Many interesting features to explore Large, bright, detailed screen Wired charging is complicated, and only 45W Big and heavy Before reading this review, there are a few things I want to suggest. Don’t get caught up in the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra’s admittedly high price tag, but instead think about the value it represents. Don’t get overwhelmed by its astonishing ability or extensive feature list, but consider the things it can’t do. Don’t think of it as being “more of the same” either, as you’ll miss things that mean it’ll stay usable for longer.
About our Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra review Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: design Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: colors Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: camera Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: video recording Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: performance Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: screen and software Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: S Pen Stylus Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: battery and charging Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: price and availability Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: verdict I know that’s a lot of “don’ts,” but there’s a reason I’ve pointed them out. It’s because the Galaxy S23 Ultra can do pretty much everything you want today, next year, and almost certainly for a few years after that too. When you know this, it’s only the things it can’t do that will matter — and believe me, it’s a very short list indeed. Join us as we go into detail in our full Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra review.
When is my phone getting Android 14? Here’s everything we know Samsung just killed one of its most important Android phones The best Android tablets in 2023: the 10 best ones you can buy About our Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra review Our Galaxy S23 Ultra review is based on several weeks of regular use with the phone. We tested three different models throughout that time, First, one review model supplied by Samsung in the U.K. used by Andy Boxall , which was subsequently returned and replaced with a retail version purchased from Samsung’s online store. The other is being used in the U.S. by Joe Maring.
 All three are unlocked versions of the phone. We’re still using the S23 Ultra regularly, and we’ll continue to update our Galaxy S23 Ultra review as we do so, if any of our observations change.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: design Joe Maring/Digital Trends I came to the Galaxy S23 Ultra from the OnePlus 11 and spent the first few days adapting to the difference between the two. The OnePlus 11 is slim, light, and very “holdable,” and the S23 Ultra really isn’t any of those things. If you’re coming from a phone that isn’t nearly 9mm thick, 78mm wide, and 233 grams in weight, you’re really going to notice how much of a handful the S23 Ultra is.
It’s not unmanageable, but there is a period of adjustment involved unless you’re already using the Galaxy S22 Ultra or an iPhone 14 Pro Max , which are the closest analogs to the S23 Ultra’s size.
Previous Next 1 4 Joe Maring/Digital Trends Joe Maring/Digital Trends Joe Maring/Digital Trends Joe Maring/Digital Trends You will get used to the S23 Ultra’s size and weight, but if you’ve got small hands, the width and thickness make singlehanded use very difficult, which is far harder to overcome. It’s a consideration that’s mostly unnecessary on phones like the OnePlus 11, iPhone 14 Pro , or even the Galaxy S23 Plus.
 If this is going to be your first massive smartphone, before you buy it, go and hold one first and see if you think it’ll fit into your lifestyle. Some folks may never adjust to the S23 Ultra’s size, and for them, the much smaller and more pocketable Galaxy S23 will be a better fit.
Samsung hasn’t really changed the design of the Galaxy S23 Ultra over the S22 Ultra. It’s still that familiar all-business look, with curved sides to the chassis and the screen, tiny bezels, and five circular camera modules on the back. It’s not especially eye-catching, but this will be part of its appeal. There’s a maturity to the simple stylishness of the S23 Ultra, and the device itself is instantly recognizable too. It’s not going to be mistaken for an iPhone 14 Pro Max or a Google Pixel 7 Pro.
Andy Boxall/DigitalTrends The build quality is superb, it’s incredibly substantial, and it should be very durable too.
The S23 Ultra has an IP68 water-resistance rating , Gorilla Glass Victus 2, and Samsung’s latest Armor Aluminum chassis material. The weight means putting it in a case will protect it in the event of a fall onto something hard, but there’s a degree of reassurance that comes from Samsung’s commitment to durability that’s missing from many of its competitors.
This also applies to Samsung’s use of recycled materials, and its lengthy software update commitment, which, when combined with the durability and performance of the phone, adds up to it being a device you’ll be happy to keep for years. It used to be fine to keep a phone for two years if you were keen on mobile tech, but this is a three-or-more-year device.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: colors Andrew Martonik / Digital Trends There are eight different color options for the Galaxy S23 Ultra.
 The standard Phantom Black, Lavender, Cream, and Green models are widely available, but if you order directly from Samsung you can choose one of four exclusive colors. These are Lime, Graphite, Red, and Sky Blue. If you do opt for one of the Samsung-only colors, you may have to wait a little longer for delivery.
We started off using the green Galaxy S23 Ultra, and it’s certainly attractive. Green is an on-trend color for smartphones, with everything from the iPhone 13 Pro to the OnePlus 11 tackling the tricky shade. Samsung didn’t go for a bright or forest green, toning it down for a subtle look when it wasn’t in the right light. It stood out a little more when the light did hit it, but it’s hardly an attention grabber.
Previous Next 1 5 Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Step forward with Samsung’s exclusive colors. These really will grab attention, as they’re far brighter and more eye-catching. I chose the Sky Blue model, which took a week longer to ship than a standard colored model, and am very pleased with my choice.
I considered the red model but preferred the Sky Blue model’s chrome finish on the chassis to the red version’s black finish. The blue is still quite subtle, taking on a paler, almost silver color at certain angles. If you can handle the long wait, you won’t be disappointed with one of Samsung’s exclusive colors.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: camera Andy Boxall/DigitalTrends The headline feature is Samsung’s own ISOCELL HP2 200-megapixel camera. It’s joined by a far more conventional 12MP wide-angle camera with a 120-degree field of view, plus a pair of 10MP telephoto cameras for a 3x and 10x optical zoom. The camera is also equipped with optical image stabilization (OIS) and laser autofocus, plus a Super Resolution Zoom with recommended levels of 30x and 100x digital zoom.
It’s possible to shoot photos at the full 200MP resolution; just be aware that these take up at least 40MB of space on their own, compared to the more usual 4MB to 7MB 12MP shots the camera takes by default.
Here’s the most important thing you need to know about the Galaxy S23 Ultra’s camera: the reason to buy it is not the 200MP camera, but its incredible zoom capabilities. They are transformative and make the camera so much more versatile than what’s on any other phone available today. The quality of the 3x and 10x zoom is excellent, but now the 30x zoom is catching up. And although the 100x still isn’t great, it’s much better than ever before. The Galaxy S23 Ultra’s telephoto cameras take photos that are impossible to replicate on any other smartphone, at least with the same quality. You’ll have a lot of fun taking amazing zoom photos with the Galaxy S23 Ultra.
Previous Next 1 15 10x Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Portrait Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Portrait Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Portrait Andy Boxall/Digital Trends 10x Andy Boxall/Digital Trends 3x Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Night mode Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends 10x Andy Boxall/Digital Trends 10x Andy Boxall/Digital Trends 3x Andy Boxall/Digital Trends 3x Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The main camera takes brilliant photos, but you won’t really know it’s a 200MP camera. Shots have a vibrant, exciting tone, with strong colors and masses of detail. I like the overall atmosphere the camera creates, which straddles the line between realism and hyperrealism very effectively. Most of the time, the colors are amped up by just the right amount, but it can slip into oversaturation when faced with reds and blues in some situations.
It takes considerably brighter photos than the iPhone 14 Pro and exposes more detail in the shadows too, but this comes at the expense of a natural color palette. The camera also produces shots with a very different atmosphere. I’d call them more instantly shareable, but that won’t be deemed a good thing by everyone.
Comparing the Galaxy S23 Ultra camera to the Google Pixel 7 Pro , one of our favorite camera phones, was a real eye-opener; the Galaxy S23 Ultra has stolen the Google phone’s crown.
Previous Next 1 4 Galaxy S23 Ultra main camera Image used with permission by copyright holder iPhone 14 Pro main camera Andy Boxall/Digital Trends Galaxy S23 Ultra wide camera Andy Boxall/Digital Trends iPhone 14 Pro wide camera Andy Boxall/Digital Trends The Galaxy S23 Ultra can struggle in difficult lighting conditions, there’s a bug where it will sometimes fail to focus when using the 10x zoom, and the viewfinder doesn’t always accurately show what the photo will look like. This is a problem because they look much worse than the end result, which may stop you from taking a photo that would end up being fine. These are issues that may be resolved through a software update, as we are using the phone ahead of its final release.
Previous Next 1 6 Wide-angle Image used with permission by copyright holder Main Andy Boxall/Digital Trends 3x Andy Boxall/Digital Trends 10x Andy Boxall/Digital Trends 30x Andy Boxall/Digital Trends 100x Andy Boxall/Digital Trends You can also download Samsung’s Expert RAW app from the Galaxy App Store, which unlocks the camera’s potential to take professional-level images in RAW format that are ready to be edited in apps such as Adobe Lightroom. Lightroom is the default editor for the app , but it requires a subscription to use all of its features. Pay through the app, and Lightroom Premium costs $5 per month, and it comes with an extended two-month free trial.
I’ve barely scratched the surface of what the camera is capable of, but it has greatly impressed. It’s the versatility that makes it so desirable, and I feel confident I will be able to take any photo I want with it — and that’s something other phones can’t quite provide.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: video recording Andy Boxall/Digital Trends I continue to adore the Galaxy S23 Ultra’s camera for stills; it’s so incredibly versatile that I rarely feel it can’t capture the shot I want. But what about the video performance? The Galaxy S23 Ultra can record video at up to 8K resolution at 24 frames-per-second (fps), or at a more reasonable 4K at 60fps. It also has many special modes, including slow-motion, Hyperlapse, and Portrait video.
You’ll have to be mindful of storage space shooting at higher resolutions. A minute of 8K video takes up about 620MB, while 4K resolution fills almost the same amount of space at 550MB on average. If you do this regularly, and start shooting 200MP stills, too, then it’s easy to see how quickly 256GB of storage space would be filled. It’s worth considering the 512GB version or even more if you want to take a lot of video.
But what does the Galaxy S23 Ultra’s video actually look like? To find out, I took the phone with me on a short trip away and made a point to shoot as much video as possible, instead of mostly taking still photos as usual. You can read my complete article on what it’s like to use the S23 Ultra as a video camera , with several examples of performance — plus you can see one of the videos from it above. I really enjoyed using the S23 Ultra’s video mode, as it repeats all the still camera modes, giving you a lot of versatility. It can’t beat stills for me, personally, but there’s no question it’s just as powerful if you prefer it.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: performance Andy Boxall / Digital Trends Powerful isn’t a strong enough word to describe the incredible ability of the Galaxy S23 Ultra. We’d already been impressed by the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 in the Iqoo 11 and the OnePlus 11, but here — in its custom “ Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 For Galaxy ” guise — it’s an absolute monster. I’d love to say I have pushed the phone to its limits, but I don’t think I’ve come close. I play games, use apps, make calls, use Bluetooth and Samsung DeX, take 200-megapixel photos, and shoot some 8K video. Even with all of that, the S23 Ultra just shrugs it all off.
Playing Asphalt 9: Legends for 30 minutes doesn’t cause any noticeable temperature increase apart from a tiny bit around the top edge, but nothing that you’d call hot, or even that warm. Recording a 15-minute Hyperlapse video caused the phone to heat up more around the camera module –not so it was burning, but definitely hot to the touch. Apps start and refresh in seconds, and even Google Maps grabs a signal and loads the local area faster than other phones I’ve used. When you start noticing little things like that, it means the entire system is incredibly smooth and fast.
Powerful isn’t a strong enough word to describe the incredible ability of the Galaxy S23 Ultra.
My review model has 12GB of RAM and 256GB of internal storage space. There is an 8GB version available, but it’s probably worth getting the higher specification one if you’re planning to keep the phone for a while. Internal storage is also an important consideration. A single 200MP photo is at least 40MB, and a minute of 8K video is often close to 600MB. That’s before you’ve installed any games, and some of the top games today can take up to 10GB alone. Do think about the 512GB model if you intend to keep it for a while.
This time, Samsung hasn’t made an Exynos version of the Galaxy S23 Ultra for global markets. I’m extremely glad, as I can’t see any way the almost overwhelming ability of the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 For Galaxy could be beaten. Buy the Galaxy S23 Ultra, and be safe in the knowledge you’ll have to work pretty hard to reach its limits.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: screen and software Andy Boxall/DigitalTrends That’s 6.8 inches of Super Dynamic AMOLED screen you’re looking at on the front of the Galaxy S23 Ultra, and it’s even bigger than the massive iPhone 14 Pro Max and Pixel 7 Pro. It’s enormous , and has the brightness to go with its size. Peak brightness is 1,750 nits, and even walking around Manhattan on a (surprisingly) sunny February morning, Section Editor Joe Maring could still see the screen perfectly. I’ve had no problem seeing the screen, either. It’s easily comparable to the iPhone 14 Pro’s similarly bright display.
Watching Disney+ and Amazon Prime, the screen’s vibrant colors and deep blacks are immediately obvious, and the sheer size of the screen makes it more immersive than you’d expect from a mobile device. I love the wide viewing angle too, so even when the phone is flat on a desk, video still looks excellent and just like you’re watching it straight-on.
Andy Boxall/DigitalTrends Star Wars: The Clone Wars looks amazing, with tons of detail on show. The audio is great too, with centralized dialogue and expansive music, plus a pleasing amount of depth. When playing games, though, your palm does tend to cover the lower speaker unless you hold the phone “upside down” when the buttons get in the way and are less natural to press.
Android 13 with Samsung’s One UI 5.1 software is installed. While there are some very small changes over One UI 5.0, using it appears to be an identical experience to the software on the Galaxy Z Fold 4.
 It takes time to get the best from One UI as it’s quite feature-dense, and you really have to work to find many of the best or most helpful ones. For example, did you know you can change the lock screen clock, notification layout, and add filters to the wallpaper? To find these capabilities, you have to tap and hold the screen when the phone is locked, rather than it being an option when the phone is unlocked.
Andy Boxall/DigitalTrends None of the additional features are pushed at you, though, so it never feels overwhelming, and you don’t get the impression you’re underutilizing the device. As you explore and find new features, the good news is they mostly work very well and are rarely gimmicky.
Samsung’s DeX system is a good example, as the phone can be connected to a monitor or PC to provide a big-screen PC-like experience. I wouldn’t use it very often, but it’s very effective when it is called into action.
The Galaxy S23 Ultra’s software features work very well and are rarely gimmicky.
Samsung provides one of the longest commitments to software updates in the industry, with four years of major OS updates and five years of security updates too. It’s another crucial aspect of the device’s longevity, and a reason to buy and keep using your phone for years to come.
I always make a core set of adjustments in One UI when I set it up, and once they’re done, the software looks and works just as I like. I’d put it up against Android on the Pixel 7 in terms of speed, and although it’s not quite as simple to use as Google’s version, it’s more intuitive and fun than OxygenOS 13 on the OnePlus 11.
 It’s reliable, attractively designed, consistent in its look, and almost always logical to use.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: S Pen Stylus Andy Boxall / DigitalTrends The Galaxy Note series has been retired, and the top S Series phone has taken its place; hence you’ll find the S Pen stylus hidden in a slot on the bottom of the phone — another reason this is a big smartphone. It’s securely held in place, and the tiny internal battery powering the Bluetooth is charged while it’s docked, ensuring it’s always ready to go. the pen is thin and relatively short, but I find it comfortable to hold and scribble notes. I’m no artist, though, and the stubby length may not be comfortable enough to craft any masterpieces.
It’s as multifunctional as you could expect from a stylus, providing ways to clip images and text, translate text, take notes, sketch, and even make use of it as a remote shutter button for the phone’s camera. There’s no question it’s well-engineered and is more versatile than a passive stylus, but whether you use it regularly or not depends on your eagerness to take handwritten notes or sketch on your phone.
Previous Next 1 3 Andy Boxall / DigitalTrends Andy Boxall/DigitalTrends Andy Boxall/DigitalTrends I don’t find many opportunities to use the primary features very often, but I do like one feature a lot. When you remove the pen while the phone is locked, you can scribble endless notes on the black screen. Press the side button to erase a word, and tap Save to store the note in Samsung Notes. It’s incredibly responsive, very fast, and the palm rejection is spot-on. Jotting things down on your phone like this is seamless and really fast.
It’s not just lock-screen notes that are fast — it’s the whole thing. Use the instant translation feature by hovering the S Pen over the top of the text you want to translate, and in less than a few seconds, it appears in a pop-up box. If you use it on Twitter, it’s faster than the platform’s own translation system. The S Pen is not a reason to buy the Galaxy S23 Ultra on its own, but it is a great piece of added value. You may not use it all the time, but when you do, its speed and precision are outstanding.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: battery and charging Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The Galaxy S23 Ultra does not come with a charger in the box but does come with a USB Type-C-to-Type-C cable. The phone supports Samsung’s fastest 45-watt charging technology, which requires either a Samsung Super Fast Charging 2.0 charger or a compatible charger from another brand that supports both it and the USB Power Delivery PPS standard. It makes charging the Galaxy S23 Ultra at its fastest speeds a little confusing if you’re a newcomer, so you want to make sure you choose the right charger when going to buy one.
Obviously, Samsung wants you to buy its own charger, which costs around $30, but others are available if you search. I’ve used the Anker 313 GaN charger, which is compatible with both Power Delivery PPS and Super Fast Charging 2.0, and it charged the phone in 63 minutes. It’s not as fast as the OnePlus 11, but very few phones are, and an hour is acceptable for a battery of this capacity.
The Galaxy S23 Ultra’s battery is more than capable to keep you going.
I’d like it to be a little simpler to work out which chargers and cables will be compatible. If you charge it using a charger that’s not compatible with Samsung’s technology, it’s a lot slower. A regular charger takes around 100 minutes to fully charge the battery, and that’s not great. I do like the way it shows the estimated charge time on the lock screen, helping you plan ahead, and it also tells you what kind of charging system is being used. For example, it does state if Super Fast Charging 2.0 is active.
Joe Maring / Digital Trends Once it is fully charged, it’s capable of lasting for more than two days with moderate use, and a lot of its ability comes from the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2’s increased efficiency. Watching a 30-minute YouTube video drains the battery by just 2%. Roughly the same time using GPS drains a similar amount of energy too.
Even on more intensive days, the Galaxy S23 Ultra’s battery is more than capable to keep you going. On a day with over an hour of playing Marvel Snap and browsing Twitter, then watching YouTube videos for 45 minutes, plus regular use of Google Chrome, Reddit, Duolingo, and more, the S23 Ultra ended a nearly 16-hour day with 5 hours and 20 minutes of screen-on time and 24% battery still remaining.
Add in 15W wireless charging and reverse charging for accessories like the Galaxy Buds 2 Pro , and the Galaxy S23 Ultra is very nearly the complete package when it comes to charging and battery life.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: price and availability Andy Boxall / Digital Trends The cheapest Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra is $1,199, and it comes with 256GB of storage space. If you want 512GB of storage space, the phone will cost $1,379, while the most expensive 1TB model costs $1,699. It comes in Green, Cream, Lavender, or Phantom Black colors, but if you order from Samsung, there’s an additional choice of Red, Lime, Graphite, or Sky Blue colors.
In the U.K., the same colors are available, and the 256GB Galaxy S23 Ultra costs 1,249 British pounds. It’s 1,399 pounds for the 512GB version and 1,599 for the top 1TB model.
You can buy the Galaxy S23 Ultra directly from Samsung’s website, at retailers like Amazon and Best Buy, or from your favorite wireless carrier.
Joe Maring/Digital Trends This is an expensive smartphone, especially if you choose the 1TB model. The price puts it in competition with the Apple iPhone 14 Pro Max and Samsung’s own Galaxy Z Fold 4. If you simply can’t justify spending so much, take a look at the Galaxy S23 Plus, which has a large screen and the same processor, or the OnePlus 11. OnePlus’ latest phone has the same processor and battery capacity, plus the camera and screen are both excellent. It’s a very good value at $699. The $899 Google Pixel 7 Pro is another good choice if you want to spend less and prioritize camera performance over device performance and battery life. And if you’re OK sacrificing some screen size and battery, the regular Galaxy S23 is a phenomenal choice.
Before spending less, though, do consider the longevity of the device and how long you see yourself keeping it. The Galaxy S23 Ultra is so powerful and has such a versatile camera, mega battery life, impressive durability, and long-term software support that it will likely outlast many other devices, purely because of its outright ability. If you want to spend once and keep your new device for years and years, the Galaxy S23 Ultra may be the better bet over the long term.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: verdict Andy Boxall / Digital Trends What can’t the Galaxy S23 Ultra do? It’s not quite as fast to charge as the OnePlus 11, and it’s not going to fit comfortably in all hands or pockets — but that’s about it. There’s a real pleasure in using a phone that puts ability ahead of gimmicks and keeps a sensible, yet stylish and recognizable design over needlessly changing it up to try and attract buyers. The Galaxy S23 Ultra is Samsung at its most confident, and it’s the sensible, mature buying decision for anyone wanting the pinnacle of Android performance and ability. It’s a combination that makes it one of the best phones of the year.
What it’s not is daring, or especially forward-thinking. Head over to the Galaxy Z Fold 4 for that, as the Galaxy S23 Ultra gives you the best that’s available now , without compromise, and doesn’t try to push the envelope or be the next big thing. It’s the current big thing, and because it’s not advancing the fundamentals over what we’re used to seeing already, it’ll stay relevant and usable for more people over many years.
Only the iPhone 14 Pro or Pro Max come close to being this confidence-inspiring, as other top-tier Android phones are often thwarted by software woes, performance that’s good but never outstanding, and try-hard designs that can limit appeal. You’re going to pay a lot of money for the Galaxy S23 Ultra, but it’s worth every penny, and in three or even four years’ time, when it’s still a great phone, you’ll look back and see what good value it actually was.
Editors' Recommendations The best Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus cases: 21 you can’t ignore Samsung Galaxy S24: news, rumored price, release date, and more Samsung just did something strange to its newest Android phone The best Android phones in 2023: the 16 best ones you can buy Fixing your broken Samsung phone is about to get easier Phone Reviews Product Reviews Samsung Mobile Just months after releasing the Galaxy Z Fold 5 and Galaxy Z Flip 5, Samsung has introduced another new phone and two tablets. The latest additions to the FE family are the Samsung Galaxy S23 FE, Galaxy Tab S9 FE, and the Galaxy Tab S9 FE Plus.
The FE series is designed to offer an affordable entry point to the Samsung Galaxy universe while still providing many of the same features found in more expensive models. In announcing the new products, TM Roh, president and head of Mobile Experience Business at Samsung Electronics, said: “Our new FE devices are packed with crowd-pleasing premium capabilities that, on their own or as part of a connected ecosystem, let Galaxy users maximize their creativity and productivity.” Samsung Galaxy S23 FE Mobile Topping our list of the best folding phones, you can't go wrong with the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 if you want a super stylish yet practical phone that stands out from the crowd. However, it's an expensive phone so if you want to see how you can save on your purchase, keep reading. We've got everything you need to know about all the best Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 deals going on right now across the internet. Let's get straight to how you could save including discounts, trade-ins, and much more.
Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 deals at Samsung Samsung offers a free storage upgrade with select Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 5 devices so you get 512GB of storage instead of 256GB. It's also possible to get up to $1,000 trade-in credit depending on the phone you're trading in.
Mobile Upon launch, the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 soon found itself a firm favorite among the best folding phones thanks to being extremely well-built, offering great performance, and good cameras. However, just because it's a premium phone doesn't mean you should have to settle for paying premium prices. That's why we've picked out all the best Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 deals and listed them below. Available across many different retailers and in various forms like through trade-in deals or simply being cheaper than usual, there's something for everyone here.
Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 deals at Samsung Go directly to the source by buying the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 5 from Samsung, and you can get up to $600 instant trade-in credit. It depends on what phone you're trading in but it's useful if you prefer to go direct.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
