Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Guides Here’s every game you want to play in 4K and HDR on the PlayStation 4 Pro Get the full PS4 Pro experience. Here's every game you can play in 4K HDR By Gabe Gurwin Close Image used with permission by copyright holder The PlayStation 4 Pro, or PS4 Pro, is a high-powered version of Sony’s very popular PS4 platform, supports 4K and high-dynamic range (HDR) content, as well offering a number of technical improvements to PS4 games old and new. Though the console’s increased power can benefit any PS4 game, some games will be optimized to take full advantage of the Pro’s hardware. A couple of Xbox One consoles support this technology too, and we have a list of games for that as well.
Sony has referred to these games, particularly the ones that are already out, as “forward compatible.” New games with 4K and HDR features will sport a “PS4 Pro Enhanced” label, which lets buyers easily spot titles that make use of the extra power. If you need a primer to what all this fancy graphical nonsense means, we suggest checking out our complete guide to HDR.
The nature of these enhancements varies from game to game. For many of the games announced so far, the difference will come in the form of higher resolution — 2017’s Horizon: Zero Dawn, for example, touts 4K resolution.
Call of Duty: Black Ops III and Infinite Warfare received a similar boost, while other titles will come with the ability to customize these enhancements.
The best games on PlayStation Plus, Extra, and Premium PS Plus members can cloud stream PS5 games in 4K later this month Best PlayStation deals: PS5, controllers, headsets on sale Rise of the Tomb Raider, for instance, is capable of running in 4K, yet you can keep the resolution at 1080p and boost the framerate or add extra visual details to the game’s world. If you plan on buying a PlayStation VR headset , you’ll also see performance improvements through the PlayStation 4 Pro, and the resolution on shared images will increase. These images will not, however, be in 4K resolution.
If you’re thinking about upgrading to the PS4 Pro , you’ll want to make sure you have at least a couple of games that take advantage of the technology. That’s why we’ve compiled a list of every game that features, or will feature, some sort of dedicated PS4 Pro support. We’ve also listed the specific enhancements each game will receive when the information has been made available, and we’ll continue to update this list as more games are confirmed.
Game 4K? HDR? Extra Features Ace Combat 7: Skies Unknown No No Improved framerate Agents of Mayhem No Yes Better textures, better shadows, up to 60 frames per second Assassin’s Creed III Yes Yes Assassin’s Creed Odyssey Yes Yes Assassin’s Creed Origins Yes Yes Assassin’s Creed Rogue: Remastered Yes No Assassin’s Creed Syndicate Yes No Assassin’s Creed: The Ezio Collection Yes No Battlefield 1 No No Increased resolution, better shadow and terrain detail Battlezone (VR) No No PlayStation VR: Increased resolution, dynamic lighting, and reflections Bound Yes No PlayStation VR: Double the pixels and extra effects Bulletstorm: Full Clip Edition Yes No Burnout Paradise Remastered Yes No 60 frames per second Call of Duty: Black Ops III Yes No Call of Duty: Black Ops 4 Yes Yes Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare Yes No Call of Duty: Modern Warfare Remastered Yes No Call of Duty: WWII No No 1620p Crash Bandicoot N. Sane Trilogy No No 1440p Dark Souls Remastered No No 1880p Dark Souls 3 No No Increased framerate Days Gone Yes Yes Death Stranding Yes Yes Destiny 2 Yes No Detroit: Become Human Yes Yes Deus Ex: Mankind Divided Yes Yes Devil May Cry 5 Yes Yes Dirt 4 No No Better lighting and shadows, better anti-aliasing Dishonored 2 No No Higher 1440p resolution , but not 4K DriveClub VR (VR) No No The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim – Special Edition Yes No Temporal anti-aliasing on 1080p displays Elder Scrolls Online: Tamriel Unlimited Yes No Increased fidelity with 1080p displays F1 2017 Yes Yes Better image quality on 1080p displays Fallout 4 No No Native 1440p visuals, enhanced draw distance Far Cry 5 Yes Yes Far Cry New Dawn Yes Yes Farpoint (VR) No No PlayStation VR: Crisper visuals FIFA 18 Yes Yes FIFA 19 Yes Yes Final Fantasy XV Yes Yes High framerate option for 1080p displays Firewatch No No UI renders at 4K, better detail distance and shadows on 1080p displays For Honor Yes No Get Even Yes No God of War Yes Yes Dynamic 4K resolution , increased clarity on 1080p displays, high-framerate option Gran Turismo Sport Yes Yes Hellblade: Senua’s Sacrifice No No 60 frames per second, increased resolution options Helldivers Yes No Hitman No Yes 1440p, UI renders at native 4K, better textures, lighting, anti-aliasing, and higher overall resolution.
Horizon: Zero Dawn Yes Yes Better image quality on 1080p displays.
Infamous: Second Son Yes Yes Smoother visuals on 1080p displays.
Infamous: First Light Yes Yes Smoother visuals on 1080p displays.
Injustice 2 No No 1440p, better texture quality Just Cause 4 No No Higher resolution.
Killing Floor 2 Yes No Increased textures, dynamic shadows are crisper, higher framerate on 1080p displays.
Kingdom Hearts III No No Higher resolution Knack 2 No No Options for either 1800p visuals or higher framerate L.A. Noire Yes No Lawbreakers No No 1440p, smoother framerate Life is Strange: Before the Storm Yes No Lumines Remastered Yes No Mantis Burn Racing Yes No Crisper resolution for 1080p displays Madden NFL 18 Yes Yes Will run at higher framerate (60+ fps) in 1080p Mafia III No No 1440p, improved framerate Mark of the Ninja: Remastered Yes No Mass Effect: Andromeda Yes Yes Metro Exodus No Yes Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor Yes No MLB The Show 18 Yes Yes Multiple performance modes, including “faster” and “balanced.” MLB The Show 19 Yes yes Monster Hunter World Yes Yes Options to improve visual effects or framerate Mortal Kombat 11 No Yes 1440p NBA 2K18 Yes Yes Neon Chrome Yes No Ni No Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom Yes Yes 60 frames per second Nioh Yes No Anti-aliasing enhancement and framerate boost options on 1080p displays Onrush Yes Yes Choice of resolution or framerate boost Paragon No No 1080p, 60 frames per second PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds No Yes PlayStation VR Worlds (VR) No No Prey No No Better visual quality, less texture pop-in Project Cars 2 No No Dynamic resolution, smoother framerate Pyre Yes No 60 frames per second Ratchet & Clank No Yes Higher resolution on 4K displays. More antialiasing. Crisper image on 1080p displays.
Red Dead Redemption 2 Yes Yes Red Faction: Guerilla Re-Mars-tered No No Higher resolution Resident Evil 2 No Yes Higher resolution Resident Evil 7: Biohazard Yes Yes Rez Infinite Yes No Higher resolution when using PlayStation VR Ride 2 Yes No RIGS Mechanized Combat League (VR) No No Rise of the Tomb Raider Yes No Increased detail in 1080p, “High frame rate” mode in 1080p.
Robinson: The Journey (VR) No No Higher resolution, longer view distances, improved textures, and lighting Rocket League Yes No Runs at 60 frames per second in 4K, “in all arenas.” Shadow of the Colossus Yes Yes Higher-framerate option Shadow of the Tomb Raider No Yes 1872p Smite Yes No Sniper Elite 4 No No Faster loading times, better lighting, better framerate Spider-Man Yes Yes Star Wars: Battlefront II No No 60 frames per second Tekken 7 No No Better textures, smoother framerate Tennis World Tour Yes Yes Native 4K resolution Tetris Effect Yes Yes The Crew 2 No No Higher resolution The Evil Within 2 No No Unlocked framerate, 1260p resolution The Last Guardian Yes Yes The Last of Us: Left Behind Yes Yes More detailed terrain, buildings, and foliage, higher quality shadows, 1800p 60 frames per second option The Last of Us: Remastered Yes Yes More detailed terrain, buildings, and foliage, higher quality shadows, 1800p 60 frames per second option The Legend of Heroes: Trails of Cold Steel II: Kai Yes No 60 frames per second The Playroom VR (VR) No No Increased resolution The Surge Yes Yes Option for 60 frames per second mode The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt Yes Yes Better texture filter and ambient occlusion The Witness Yes Yes Increased anti-aliasing quality Thumper Yes No Better anti-aliasing Titanfall 2 No No Increased resolution, better shadows Tom Clancy’s Ghost Recon Wildlands No No Appears to be 1440p Tom Clancy’s The Division 2 No Yes Uncharted 4: A Thief’s End Yes Yes More detailed terrain, buildings, and foliage, 1080p multiplayer resolution, crisper graphics on 1080p displays.
Uncharted: The Lost Legacy Yes Yes 60 frames per second Until Dawn: Rush of Blood (VR) No No Viking Squad Yes No Watch Dogs 2 No No 1080p , not 4K Wheels of Aurelia Yes No Wolfenstein II: The New Colossus No No 1440p World of Tanks Yes Yes Smoother framerates WWE 2K18 No No 60 frames per second Not specified XCOM 2 Steep Hustle Kings Super Stardust Ultra Knack Editors' Recommendations You only have one week left to share PlayStation clips and screenshots to X This new retro console will let you play Nintendo 64 games in 4K PlayStation boss Jim Ryan is stepping down, with successor yet to be named Best video game deals: PlayStation 5, Xbox S and X, Nintendo Switch Best PlayStation Plus Deals: Save on Essential, Plus and Premium Sony Sony PlayStation Gaming Sony confirmed that 12-month subscriptions for PlayStation Plus Essential, Extra, and Premium will all see price increases alongside the reveal of September's new Essential games on the PlayStation Blog.
Starting on September 6, 12 months of PS Plus Essential goes up in price from $60 to $80, PS Plus Extra's yearly price increases from $100 to $135, and an annual subscription to PS Plus Premium will rise from $120 to $160.
Sony says it needs to increase the price of all three versions of PlayStation Plus "to continue bringing high-quality games and value-added benefits to your PlayStation Plus subscription service" and that buying a 12-month subscription is still cheaper than subscribing to any of the shorter-term plans over the same period of time. The price hikes comes just a couple of months after Microsoft raised the price of Xbox Game Pass.
When it comes to the games PS Plus Essential subscribers can expect this month, first up is Saints Row, a 2022 reboot of an open-world crime franchise that garnered mixed reviews upon its release. Next is Generation Zero, an open-world sci-fi shooter where players fight evil machines. Finally, those who have not already purchased a version of the MMO Black Desert on PS4 can redeem Black Desert - Traveler Edition, which comes with some additional items; if you have bought a version of Black Desert, you can just redeem the Traveler Item Pack.
Gaming Sony has unveiled the price for its upcoming cloud gaming handheld, as well as an official name for the device: PlayStation Portal. However, one significant caveat to its functionality might sour people's interest in the handheld: It only supports PS4 and PS5 native games that the owner purchased.
PlayStation VR2 games can't be streamed to PlayStation Portal, which does make sense. More bafflingly, though, is the fact that the PlayStation Blog post states that "games that are streamed through PlayStation Plus Premium’s cloud streaming are not supported." That means you shouldn't pick up PlayStation Portal expecting to stream some PS3 and PS4 games available through PlayStation Plus Premium to the device. That's certainly an odd omission when it's currently PlayStation's most notable cloud gaming effort.
Although Microsoft is more closely associated with cloud gaming, Sony beat it to releasing a dedicated cloud gaming device. PlayStation Portal was first teased as Project Q during May's PlayStation showcase, but now, a PlayStation Blog post more clearly explains what we can actually expect from the handheld. Most importantly, we learned that PlayStation Portal will cost $200, which puts it underneath the cost of a Nintendo Switch, Xbox Series S, and other cloud gaming devices like the Logitech G Cloud Handheld.
As for what you're getting for that price tag, it's essentially a decent screen attached to two halves of a DualSense controller. The controllers on each side share all the functionality of the DualSense, including things like haptic feedback and adaptive triggers. In-between is an 8-inch LCD screen that streams games over Wi-Fi at up to a 1080p resolution and 60 frames per second. All in all, that's fairly solid for a cloud gaming handheld that is this cheap.
Sony confirmed that the PlayStation Portal will have a 3.5mm audio jack, but also used the same blog post to unveil two new wireless audio options. There's the Pulse Elite wireless headset that features a retractable boom mic and a charging hanger and Pulse Explore wireless earbuds that offer similar audio quality in earbud form.
None of these products are available for preorder or have a specific release date just yet, but they are all expected to launch before the end of the year.
Gaming It's at around this point in a console's life cycle that companies like to release a new, slim model to reinvigorate sales, cut costs, and experiment with a new design. Sony has been trimming down its home consoles since the PS2, with each home console getting a slimmer, sometimes cheaper replacement a few years after launch. We're closing in on the PlayStation 5's third birthday and rumors abound about both a PS5 Pro and a PS5 Slim model, and yet Sony's remained tight-lipped about any iterations on the base unit. Still, some of these rumors and potential leaks may hold some weight and are fun to follow regardless to see how accurate they end up being.
Will there be a PS5 Slim? Here's what we know Before getting into the rumors and leaks, know that until Sony itself confirms the existence of a PS5 Slim, everything that follows is speculative and should be taken as such.
The first rumors of a new PS5 model centered around a diskless version that could be paired with a detachable disk drive you could buy separately in another step away from physical media. This was speculated to be coming out sometime in fall 2023, but has been rolled into the idea of the PS5 Slim. This potentially imminent release date also lines up with statements Microsoft made about a new PS5 Slim releasing this year for $400 during the Federal Trace Commission (FTC) hearing.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
