Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming News Animal Crossing: New Horizons review: The vacation we need By Lisa Marie Segarra Close $59.99 Visually captivating Lots of customization Tons of gameplay Great social features Real-time clock gives a reason to come back Gameplay can get repetitive Lack of challenge won't appeal to all Animal Crossing: New Horizons might be the perfect game for this moment in history.
Not the same ole’ Animal Crossing An island to call my own Next-generation graphics Taking it easy. Too easy? Our take The slightly campy, always cute life simulator is back with its first game in nearly eight years, and while it sticks to what’s likable about the series, it also has the kind of upgrades that Tom Nook would charge a hefty sum of Bells for.
Animal Crossing is the next Nintendo franchise to get the Lego treatment Animal Crossing: New Horizons bug guide for November 2022 Animal Crossing Halloween event: costumes, items, dates, more Not everyone sees the appeal of a game that includes paying off a mortgage and running errands. At times, Animal Crossing: New Horizons stretches the definition of what a game even is.
 Still, it’s managed to capture the hearts of millions, as massive fan hype ever since Nintendo announced the release in 2019.
 Fans have also snatched up a model of the New Horizons- themed Switch , causing it to sell out worldwide.
This is the island getaway we all need right now.
Not the same ole’ Animal Crossing Animal Crossing: New Horizons is distinctly part of the franchise, but it doesn’t repeat the formula of past games. It’s part Animal Crossing, part Cities: Skylines, and part The Sims. For the first time, players can customize all details of an island, including where bridges and ramps are located. Amiibo compatibility makes it easy to bring villager favorites to your new island. If you prefer humans over people, it’s also easy to play with friends online by visiting each others’ islands.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Despite its broad scope, the game also pays attention to detail, with plenty of small tidbits that are fun to notice. Villagers can sit on the grass and read, walk around with a sandwich, or be found hard at work crafting in their own homes. Interiors of buildings now have more aesthetic details that make the setting feel more realistic than it did in the past.
An island to call my own Often in games, players simply have to accept what they don’t like. Awkward parts of a map or annoying NPCs are just part of the experience. Not in New Horizons.
Yes, there are initial limitations on how much space can be accessed. This is frustrating when planning where to put your home, other villagers, and important buildings like the museum.
However, that can be changed later, and you don’t have to wait overly long before making significant changes.
New Horizons also adds terrain editing, unlike any past Animal Crossing games. The last entry, New Leaf , put players in charge of the town as mayors. This meant they could make small, pre-set gameplay changes and decorate the area with “public works projects,” but none of that came close to the scale of what’s included in New Horizons.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Every new Animal Crossing game comes with new items of clothing, accessories, and furniture, but there too New Horizons turns the knob up to 11. Clothing and furniture now have entire palettes, some of which can be bought, or created with crafting, to customize the look and feel of everything you own. The items look more modern, too, with ladder shelves and macrame wall hangings.
Interior decorating sees a significant revamp.
Animal Crossing’s side game, Happy Home Designer, wasn’t a hit, but it did show off new ways to style homes.
New Horizons builds on it, allowing players to lay flooring in multiple directions, move multiple items at once, and enter a design UI rather than making a villager physically walk around the space pushing and pulling objects to perfection.
You can even place furniture items and fences outside, around homes, and on the beach.
It’s part Animal Crossing, part Cities: Skylines, and part The Sims.
The game’s go-to shop, The Able Sisters, packs in more items than ever. The store offers seasonal items and a daily rotation, but the changing room provides even more options and allows players to mix and match pieces. You’ll find maxi skirts and boho-inspired tunics to wear.
It’s a lot, but that’s the point. The original Animal Crossing hit in 2001, and New Leaf is now eight years old. Life simulation games have expanded over the years.
The Sims 4 went deep on expansion packs that provide options for nearly every situation, Stardew Valley mixed things up with farming gameplay, and niche games like My Time in Portia offer large worlds. Animal Crossing needed to expand, and that’s exactly what New Horizons has done.
Next-generation graphics New Horizons is visually stunning. The textures of fossils, carpets, animals’ fur, and the bark on trees make the virtual island feel more immersive than any Animal Crossing game. Fish and insects in the critterpedia, which catalogs all the fish and insects caught, are displayed with exquisite detail.
New Horizons captures the setting in a wholly new light.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In addition to better character models and textures, the animations receive more attention to detail than ever before. An island breeze will often sway of the leaves on trees. Bands and ponytails on villagers’ hair bounce with movement.
Also, when viewing items in a museum, talking with other villagers, or taking photos, the camera focuses on a specific area giving a flattering bokeh effect. It’s a nice touch that makes the game look modern.
Taking it easy. Too easy? Island life means kicking back and relaxing, but it can be a little too relaxing. I found myself digging up more fossils than in previous games, and appearance changes and styles were easy to unlock. Pockets, after a few upgrades, carry a massive 40 slots. Material collecting is essential in New Horizons, but it’s still a significant upgrade.
The Miles system means there are two ways to earn currency. A rotation of items, from clothing, furniture, and recipes, can be purchased using miles. The miles themselves are easy to obtain, too. All it takes it, well, playing the game. Catch fish, talk to villagers, hunt for insects, it all counts.
Life simulation games aren’t known for challenges, but New Horizons provides absolutely zero friction.
Then again, Animal Crossing was never challenging in the past. Relaxing, trouble-free gameplay is the focus of the series. Just make sure you know that going in. This isn’t a game you win. There are no credits, no final boss battle. It’s just life, day after day, in a fun world full of talking animals.
Our take New Horizons is packed with delight. It’s fun, with rare cross-generation appeal. The deserted island theme had some worried the latest entry would stray from the traditional model, but those fears should quickly be alleviated. It does, however, allow for new experiences and prevent the series from feeling stale almost 20 years after its debut.
Is there a better alternative? There can’t be a better alternative to New Horizons, or any Animal Crossing game for that matter, because there aren’t any alternatives.
Stardew Valley or The Sims come close, but Animal Crossing they are not.
Stardew Valley focuses more heavily on farming, and The Sims’ emphasis on realism means the kitschy, cute anthropomorphic animal neighbors are a no-go. Animal Crossing is its own genre.
How long will it last? How long do you want it to last? New Horizons’ real-time progression means this venture is a long one, at least if you’re not willing to cheat. As the days pass, your island slowly develops. Instant gratification is missing, as the game makes you wait at least a day to enjoy the benefits of a new building.
Even if you get bored of your current run, there’s plenty of replayability value. Many fans have made themed towns in previous entries or found new focuses when restarting.
New Horizons, like its predecessors, lets you choose your own endgame. That could mean building your perfect house, living as an urban planner carefully crafting your island, or achieving a completionist’s dream by collecting all catalog items or filling out the museum.
Should you buy it? Yes. While Animal Crossing games are undoubtedly divisive in how “fun” they are, if you’re at all on the fence, you should absolutely pick up this game. Its one-of-a-kind playstyle, updated and expanded features, and ability to cater to fans of different elements, there’s a reason the franchise is so beloved.
Especially as countries cope with the coronavirus , officially named COVID-19, by social distancing and staying home, this is precisely the type of game that’s perfect for anyone looking to get away without leaving the house.
Editors' Recommendations Lego’s Animal Crossing sets are every bit as adorable as the games PlayStation Plus just set a new first-party precedent with Horizon Forbidden West Animal Crossing: New Horizons fish guide for November 2022 Overwatch 2 has cross-progression, but you’ll need to merge accounts first Fall Guys cross-platform support: Everything we know Animal Crossing Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming During today's State of Play presentation, Sony shared a new trailer for Horizon Call of the Mountain. The clip gave a close look at its gameplay, which features several of the series' signature mechanics.
Horizon Franchise - State of Play June 2022 Trailers | PS5, PS4 & PS VR2 Games Gaming Animal Crossing: New Horizons is celebrating the second Turkey Day event this year on November 25. Seasonal events are some of the most exciting reasons to jump back into the game for their unique and time-limited tasks, but mostly for the special rewards you can earn that you otherwise couldn't get your hands on. With the most recent 2.0 patch and DLC already having been released and marking the end of any substantial additions coming to Animal Crossing: New Horizons, these events are even more important to participate in to keep the game, and your island, feeling fresh.
Turkey Day is a not-too-subtle reference to Thanksgiving but renamed so that players around the world will be able to associate with it. Also, the key new character for Turkey Day is himself a turkey, so the name feels quite appropriate. Last year offered a ton of great rewards for helping to whip up some seasonal dishes, and we expect this year to be quite similar. However, with cooking now being a part of the normal gameplay, there may be a few surprises in store when the 25th rolls around. If you want to get a (turkey) leg up on what to expect from this year's Turkey Day in Animal Crossing: New Horizons, here's a full guide on how to prepare.
Gaming Outriders is getting an all-new free update titled Outriders: New Horizon on Tuesday, November 16. Additionally, the game will get a new story campaign in 2022 via an expansion.
Outriders is a multiplayer RPG published by Square Enix that released on April 1. It gives players the ability to choose from four unique classes and sets them off on a cooperative story experience with various role-playing elements.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
