Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best gaming console deals: cheapest prices on PS5, Xbox S and X and Switch By Noah McGraw Close Picking a console is a big decision. They’re not cheap, so unless gaming is your passion, you probably don’t want to spend the cash to grab all three of the major ones. That’s why we’ve collected the best prices on every version of the three major consoles. Below you’ll find Xbox Series S and X deals , PlayStation 5 deals , and Nintendo Switch deals (on all the various versions). We’ve listed the best prices at the major retailers, and any deals we could find among them. Once you’ve grabbed your console, check out the best video games deals to go along with them.
Xbox Series S deals — starting at $280 Xbox Series X deals — starting at $499 PlayStation 5 with disc drive — $60 off Final Fantasy XVI Bundle PlayStation 5 Digital Version — starting at $399 Nintendo Switch OLED — starting at $310 Nintendo Switch — starting at $291 Nintendo Switch Lite — starting at $192 Xbox Series S deals — starting at $280 Microsoft The Xbox Series S is the less powerful but cheaper option out of the newest generation Xbox line. When comparing the Xbox Series S versus the Xbox Series X , the Series S takes a hit in all the component categories. That means it’s not quite as fast. But if you’re not hung up on getting the optimal performance out of your system, you’ll actually notice very few differences. The two biggest ones are the Series S’s inability to play in 8K, and its lack of a disc drive. Most people don’t even have 8K TVs, so that shouldn’t be an issue. If you’re alright with downloading all of your games straight to the console’s memory (and you have a separate DVD or Blu-Ray player), the Series S will work fine. It’s quite a bit smaller anyway, and easier to fit on a shelf.
Xbox Series X deals — starting at $499 Microsoft The Xbox Series X is all about power. It’s a great way to get into games with demanding graphics without shelling out thousands of dollars in gaming PC deals.
 The Series X has super fast load times, the ability to play in 8K, and double the internal storage. If you only settle for the best, you’ll have to spring for the Series X. It’s become much more available since its initial launch, but it doesn’t often get deals like the Series S does.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
PlayStation 5 with disc drive — $60 off Final Fantasy XVI Bundle Sony The PlayStation 5 is a lot easier to get than it was back when it first launched. If you’re a Sony fan, this is the only option right now. Sony has upgraded the power in the PS5 significantly. While the PS4 could also run games in 4K and HDR, the PS5 practically requires it thanks to the gorgeous games in its library. Some of the biggest tech advances for the PS5 is the haptic feedback in the controller. This lets you slowly pull down on the trigger, and will give you resistance when things in the game are extra hard to pull. If you’re a Final Fantasy fan, the PS5 and FFXVI bundle is currently on sale for $60 off.
PlayStation 5 Digital Version — starting at $399 Sony Like Microsoft, Sony released two versions of the PlayStation 5, one with a disc drive and one without. If you’re fine with downloading all of your games, the discless version will be fine for you. You’ll have access to the same library of games and the same powerful internals. Since most games these days require large downloads even when you own the disc, the difference isn’t too major.
Nintendo Switch OLED — starting at $310 Nintendo The Nintendo Switch, in many ways, is the ultimate handheld gaming device. Everything Nintendo has released since the Gameboy has culminated here. That makes it even more exciting when they commit some serious recourses to making the mobile aspect as good as it can be. For instance, adding an OLED screen. The Nintendo Switch OLED is an obvious upgrade that will be most exciting for people who like to game on the go. If you don’t own an OLED TV already, you might find yourself playing it in handheld mode just for the gorgeous visuals. When comparing the Switch OLED versus the standard Switch , the only real difference is the screen and a slight memory upgrade.
Nintendo Switch — starting at $291 Nintendo If you’re on this page then you know what the Nintendo Switch is and you know why you want one. To help convince you, here’s a list of some games you can only play if you buy a Switch: Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild , Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom , Super Mario Odyssey , Bayonetta 3 , Hyrule Warriors: Age Of Calamity , Luigi’s Mansion 3 , and many more. After you buy the console, review our full list of the best Nintendo Switch games while you wait for it to be delivered to your house.
Nintendo Switch Lite — starting at $192 Nintendo The biggest advantage of the Nintendo Switch Lite is its price. That’s not a knock on the console — this is an article about deals, after all. It’s just that the Switch Lite can’t be plugged into your TV, so you can only play it in handheld mode. If that’s what you were planning on doing anyway, consider the buying OLED Switch instead. The screen is a serious upgrade when you compare all of the Switch versions.
 But if you just want a casual gaming device that will let you play all your favorite Nintendo exclusives, this is by far the easiest and cheapest option.
Editors' Recommendations The brand new PS5 ‘Slim’ is already discounted Xbox Series X Black Friday deals: Consoles, games, and accessories Nintendo Switch Black Friday deals: Consoles, games, and more The best PS5 controllers for 2023 This PS5 bundle just got a price cut for the holidays Deals Cheapest Prices Microsoft Nintendo Nintendo Switch Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Xbox Gaming When we think of Black Friday, we think of a great time to get cool stocking stuffers and hobby essentials for our loved ones just as much as big ticket items for ourselves. This year, we're finding that early Black Friday deals are giving us the best of both worlds, especially now that Walmart's Black Friday deals have launched. For example, the official PS5 DualSense controller (one of the best controllers in its own right) is on sale now for just $49. That's $21 down from its usual $70 price point, making it a great way to help open up multiplayer gaming for yourself, a friend, or kid. Just tap the button below to shop for yours today, or keep reading if you need to know more about it.
Why you should buy a PS5 DualSense controller Sometimes we can look down on the original of something, preferring more fancy alternatives that come out later and refine the model. The PS5 DualSense controller, however, is innovative in its own right. We've praised its haptic feedback, which makes you feel the weight of your actions as you pull on the controller's triggers, since we first discussed the PS5 DualSense's innovations and we're no less happy now. Just pair the controller with a PS5 compatible headset and you're ready for multi-sensory immersion.
Gaming The PlayStation 5 is looking to dominate the console landscape with its incredible library of games. Like the rest of the industry, Sony saw several major game delays in 2022 (and more this year), but has since dropped several new hit games like God of War Ragnarok, the Resident Evil 4 remake, and Alan Wake 2, among others. There are plenty of games out on PS5 for every kind of gamer.
And there are plenty more great titles on the way — don't forget to check out our list of the best upcoming PS5 games that will come out later this year.
Computing While some of the best laptops are designed to cater to different types of users and purposes, you're going to need a gaming laptop if you want to play the best PC games. That's because these machines are designed to meet the strict requirements of gamers, which also makes them a bit more expensive. Fortunately, there's no shortage of gaming laptop deals online, and to help you make your choice, we've rounded up some of the top offers right here. Whether you're on a tight budget or you're aiming for a powerful machine, there's something here for everyone.
HP Victus 15 (Intel) -- $550, was $900 The HP Victus 15 is one of the cheapest gaming laptops in the market, but it still provides decent performance with the latest 13th-generation Intel Core i5 processor, Nvidia GeForce RTX 3050 graphics card, and 8GB of RAM. With these specifications, you can play today's most popular games, but you'll have to go with low to medium graphic settings for the more demanding titles. The gaming laptop is also equipped with a 15.6-inch Full HD screen with a 144Hz refresh rate, and a 512GB SSD with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
