Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Switch controllers for 2023 By Jesse Lennox and Gabe Gurwin Close The Nintendo Switch is one of the bestselling consoles of all time , and with the additions of the Switch Lite and the Switch OLED , that shouldn't change anytime soon. Nintendo paid a lot of attention to playing on the go when designing the Switch, and, thankfully, there are numerous ways to enjoy your system in the living room, too.
The Joy-Con grip is fine — we'll get to just how well it can work later on — but a proper controller makes the Switch feel much more like a home console. It doesn't matter if you prefer fast first-person shooters or slow narrative-driven experiences, our list of the best Nintendo Switch controllers has a gamepad for you. We'll also include a list of frequently asked controller-related questions at the bottom of this article.
These are the best Nintendo Switch controllers.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More Sara Kurfeß Nintendo Switch Joy-Con Pair Official Nintendo gear Works with a lot of accessories Classic Switch design Joy-Con drift issue Yes, these are the basic controllers that come with the Nintendo Switch , but having a few spares is handy, especially with the number of local co-op games available on the Switch.
The versatility of the Joy-Cons is incredibly useful, both with the system in its handheld configuration and docked in an entertainment center. Each comes equipped with face buttons, two bumpers, triggers, and directional buttons, as well as additional bumper buttons located on the side for when you’re only using one of them at a time.
When attached to the Switch, the Joy-Cons are nearly perfect, offering much better control over your game than you’d get with an older Nintendo system or even the PlayStation Vita. You can even hand one to another player to play some Mario Kart 8 Deluxe (or other multiplayer game) on the go. These Joy-Cons work with the newer Switch OLED model, as well.
The Joy-Con controllers can also be attached to the Joy-Con grip to turn them into a sort of standard gamepad, albeit a small one. If you don’t opt for another controller, it does the job admirably, and we were able to make it through dozens of hours of The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild without using anything else. The Joy-Con Charging Grip is a good choice for those who don't want to worry about reattaching the Joy-Con to the console after each session to juice them up.
It is worth mentioning that the infamous "Joy-Con drift" issue still persists to this day, resulting in movement from the analog stick without actually touching it. This issue has plagued users from the beginning, and while it isn't as common today, can still happen, especially with older Joy-Con. We'll cover that in more detail in the FAQ section below.
This controller, being an official Nintendo product, is also widely supportive of other Nintendo Switch accessories.
Nintendo Nintendo Switch Pro Controller Great for docked gaming Better for more complex games Long battery life A tad expensive For players who spend the majority of their time with the Nintendo Switch in its dock, the small Joy-Con grip might feel too small. In that event, you’ll want to invest in the Nintendo Switch Pro Controller.
It’s expensive, usually retailing for around $70, but the rechargeable Pro Controller comes with large face buttons, bumpers, triggers, and analog sticks. It also has a more traditional directional pad that feels similar to those available on the Wii U’s controllers. Its shape is similar to the Xbox Series X's controller, and its internal battery lasts far longer than the PlayStation 5’s DualSense.
The Pro Controller isn't just for playing the Switch at home, either. Some larger carrying cases for the Switch , such as the Game Traveler Deluxe, include a compartment that can either hold a Joy-Con grip or a Pro Controller. With the system’s kickstand or a separate stand, you can be playing your favorite games on the go using the same controller you use at home.
This is the best controller to use for a more "core" experience that mirrors modern consoles. Use this controller if you're playing precise shooters like Apex Legends or Splatoon 3.
Image used with permission by copyright holder HORI D-Pad Controller (L) - Nintendo Switch Improves controls in handheld mode Comfortable Many fantastic designs No rumble Only relevant in handheld mode When using the Nintendo Switch in its handheld configuration, it can feel slightly odd due to the lack of a traditional directional pad on the left Joy-Con, which instead uses split buttons. To rectify this, Hori created its own left Joy-Con controller, complete with a directional pad and available in a variety of different styles.
For those playing 2D platformers on the go, it will make controlling your character feel more natural, though you’ll sacrifice rumble in the process.
The Hori Joy-Con isn’t meant to completely replace your regular left Joy-Con, as it’s only compatible with the system in handheld mode.
 It also reportedly drains the Switch’s battery more quickly than other controllers, but its $25 price means you can only use it occasionally and still feel like you got your money’s worth.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder 8bitDo Micro Colorful designs Lightweight Perfect for traveling Not good for 3D games Going on a road trip and want to play Mario Kart 8 Deluxe or Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze with your friends? Well, 8Bitdo’s Micro controller is a tiny alternative to the Joy-Con controllers that contains all the buttons you need for split-screen multiplayer games.
In addition to a traditional direction pad, face buttons, and shoulder buttons, it also includes motion control support, and it's available in a variety of colors meant to emulate the Game Boy Pocket.
As an added bonus, the 8Bitdo Micro controllers also support Raspberry Pi and Android devices through Bluetooth, and their firmware can be updated wirelessly.
Image used with permission by copyright holder PowerA Wireless Less expensive than Nintendo-brand alternatives Wireless Beautiful designs No HD rumble or Amiibo functionality Wireless play is almost mandatory for controllers these days, but that doesn't mean you need to break the bank. This pro-style controller gives you the great feel of a high-quality Switch controller, up to 30 hours of battery life, and tons of Nintendo-themed designs to choose from. The only drawback is that you lose out on any HD rumble, motion controls, and Amiibo functionality, but few games make that a requirement.
Image used with permission by copyright holder GameCube Controller Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Edition Nostalgia Cred in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate tournaments Great ergonomics compared to newer Switch controllers Expensive No, this isn’t a new lookalike GameCube controller meant to emulate the real thing — the Nintendo Switch actually supports the classic GameCube controller with the use of a special adapter.
Both are available for Super Smash Bros. Ultimate on the Switch, giving veteran players the classic control scheme they know and love. The adapter is identical to the one used for the Wii U, so you can plug that into your Switch if you still have it, and this gives you enough ports for everyone in the match to use a GameCube controller.
The GameCube Controller is a unique beast, and perhaps that’s why it’s better to simply support it on future systems rather than attempt to copy it. Its C-stick, asymmetrical button layout, and ergonomic shape make it a must-have for any Smash Bros. fan, and it’s even being reproduced specifically for fighting fans who don’t want to use one of the Switch’s newer controllers.
If you want to play your Switch using GameCube controllers while you’re traveling, the only way to do so out of the box is by bringing your dock with you. However, 8BitDo released the GBros. wireless adapter to coincide with Super Smash Bros. Ultimate.
The GBros. wireless adapter connects to the GameCube controller like the Wii’s Classic Controller did, effectively turning it into a wireless controller with up to 30 hours of battery life. It even has “share” and “home” buttons so you aren’t missing out on any features, and its color scheme matches the original GameCube’s purple design. If you want to use it with the NES Classic, SNES Classic, or Wii Classic controllers, you can do that, too.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder PDP - Wired Fight Pad Pro Controller for Nintendo Switch Less expensive than Nintendo's version Cool customization options No need for batteries Hard to find Want to play with a GameCube-style controller but don’t want to spend money on Nintendo’s USB adapter or a third-party adapter? The PDP Wired Fight Pad Pro Controller mimics the look of a classic GameCube controller. With the standard left analog stick and a smaller C-stick on the right, the face buttons feel nearly identical to Nintendo’s own controller.
It also includes shoulder buttons and triggers on both sides, so you can use it for Switch games that a standard GameCube controller wouldn’t be able to handle.
The Wired Fight Pad Pro Controller doesn’t include motion sensors like the Joy-Con or Pro Controllers do, as it was primarily designed as an alternative accessory for playing Super Smash Bros. Ultimate. You can remove the C-Stick on the right side and replace it with a second analog stick, and this comes included with every controller.
They are available in Mario, Zelda, Pikachu, Luigi, and Peach, variants so you can let your friends know who you’re going to take into the next match.
Image used with permission by copyright holder 8BitDo Sn30 Pro+ Nostaliga Great for NES and SNES titles Comfortable With the controller's unique combination of designs, it’s suitable for everything from Animal Crossing: New Horizons to Astral Chain.
 In terms of quality, don’t expect the SN30 Pro+ to feel quite as solid as the Switch Pro Controller. It also rattles a little too much when the controller shakes. However, the SN30 Pro+ will cost you $10 to $20 less than Nintendo’s offering, so it’s hard to complain too much.
Out of the box, the SN30 Pro+ is already set up for Switch. All you have to do is follow the pairing process on your console, and you’re all set to play. The Pro+ is a standard Bluetooth controller that looks a lot like the regular SN30 Pro, but the extra + means you have more customization options.
The SN30 Pro+, which includes Steam Big Picture support, works well with macOS, Android, and Windows. Even though it’s compatible with macOS, you should know the SN30 Pro+ doesn’t appear to work with iPhones or iPads.
We recommend connecting it to your computer at least once to take advantage of the wide array of customizations, even if you only plan to use the controller on your Switch. 8BitDo SN30 Pro’s incredible configuration software lets you set up trigger dead zones, program macros, rebind keys, and more.
Since you already know and love your Nintendo Switch (we hope), it’s time to find a controller you can bond with, too. From tabletop mode to handheld gameplay and more, our favorite Switch controllers let you customize your playing experience even more. After all, that’s what the Switch is all about.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Nintendo Switch 1-Up Glow in the Dark Rematch Controller Great for gaming on a budget Affordable Fancy design Paddle back buttons Wired Those seeking an affordable, yet stylish Switch controller should look no further than the Nintendo Switch 1-Up Glow in the Dark Rematch. As its name suggests, it glows in the dark, and has a nifty Toad design all over it, allowing you to game with style.
Beyond that, it's comfortable and convenient, including a 10-foot cable, perfect for players who don't want to worry about batteries or keeping the controller charged.
The controller features back button paddles, which definitely makes it feel like a professional accessory without paying an exorbitant price. In short, this is a great option for those looking to game on a budget, without having to sacrifice style and practicality.
More Frequently Asked Questions In general, the Pro Controller has a lot of benefits that the Jon-Cons lack. For one, the Pro Controller feels more like a traditional gamepad you might be used to with a PS5 or Xbox Series X. It also features more reliable analog sticks when compared with the Joy-Cons "drift" issues. You'll find that playing shooters with the Pro Controller will allow you to be more precise with your shots due to the size and layout of the device.
However, the Pro Controller does come at a steep price of $60 to $70, and if you're not keen on the idea of buying additional controllers, you can definitely get by with the Joy-Con. It also matters how you plan on using your controllers. If you tend to use your Nintendo Switch in handheld mode more, you won't necessarily need anything else, as the system comes with two Joy-Cons by default. It's also worth mentioning that each Joy-Con serves as its own controller, meaning you've got two functioning devices right out of the box.
Ultimately, you should base your decision on budget and playstyle. For us, the Pro Controller beats the Joy-Con in almost any situation, but your situation might differ.
According to Nintendo , the Joy-Cons take around three to four hours to charge, whether they're attached to the Switch itself, or the Joy-Con grip. As for the Nintendo Switch Pro Controller, that will take you around six hours to charge. When you boot up your Switch, you can check the battery life of your controllers by visiting the Controllers option on the system's main menu.
In short, yes! You can use a Nintendo Switch Pro Controller on a PC in wired or wireless formats. It connects using Bluetooth, and below are the steps for pairing it with your PC.
Navigate to Bluetooth & Other Devices and make sure Bluetooth functionality is turned on.
Then turn on the Nintendo Switch Pro Controller and press the sync button, found at the top, next to the USB-C charge port. Press and hold this button, and green lights on the bottom of the controller will begin flashing.
On your PC, click Add Bluetooth or Other Device.
The Pro Controller will now appear on the list of devices. Select it and you'll be paired wirelessly.
Otherwise, you can also simply connect your Pro Controller to your PC with a USB-C cable. Plug the controller into the PC and your device should recognize the Pro Controller.
All Nintendo Switch systems come with two Joy-Con controllers each — a left and a right Joy-Con. The Joy-Con can be attached to the Joy-Con Grip to function as a standard controller for one player, with two analog sticks, a D-pad, face buttons, and shoulder buttons — or can be used individually, meaning you'll be ready to play multiplayer games right out of the box. Using the Joy-Con individually isn't ideal, but certainly gets the job done when playing multiplayer games like Mario Kart 8 Deluxe.
If you're going to be playing a lot of multiplayer games that require precision, we advise picking up a Nintendo Switch Pro Controller or an additional set of Joy-Cons for comfort. Though, you'll be happy to know you don't necessarily have to buy any additional controllers since the Switch comes with two.
If you plan on buying a new first-party Nintendo Switch controller, you might’ve noticed that they come with a hefty price tag. A new pair of Joy-Cons retails for around $70, while the Pro Controller is about $60 to $70 as well. These controllers are more expensive for a reason — they include technology like motion, HD Rumble, and a built-in NFC reader.
The motion included is more precise than the action you might have experienced with the Wii Remotes. Users describe HD Rumble as a way to feel the sounds from your game. It’s a more refined version of the vibrations you’ve felt from other controllers. HD Rumble features a higher degree of vibrations with variable speeds to enhance immersion. The built-in NFC reader is made specifically for amiibo, which are the little Nintendo figures that you can scan into participating games.
The Joy-Cons and Pro Controllers' features are fantastic but optional, so if you can’t afford them, you can get by by buying a third-party controller. You won’t get these enticing elements that enhance your gameplay, but since third-party controllers are about half the price of a Nintendo-made controller, it might be worth it to you.
If you're part of the Switch ecosystem, you've likely heard of Joy-Con drift , which has plagued the system since launch. This is important to be aware of, especially when thinking about controller options. Joy-Con drift is a common issue that occurs with the controllers wherein the stick will "drift" on its own. This will result in your character or the camera moving on its own, leading to an unpleasant gaming experience.
Surprisingly, even several years after the launch of the Switch, Joy-Con drift persists. There are multiple DIY fixes , and Nintendo does replace Joy-Con with the drift issue. However, the issue hasn't seemed to be completely fixed overall — that is unless you buy the Nintendo Switch OLED. This system comes with " improved " Joy-Con, which features analog sticks with "all the improvements," according to Nintendo's technology development division director, Toru Yamashita.
These Joy-Con look identical to the older ones, but have revamped innards that hopefully remove (or increase the odds of) the drift issue. Though, according to TomsGuide , the issue still persists even with the new Joy-Cons.
There isn't a simple answer to this question, as it's largely dependent on the player's needs. For instance, a person who plays single-player games can get away with only having a Pro Controller or even the Joy-Con that comes in the box. Likewise, that same player might love shooters such as Fortnite or Apex Legends , so a Pro Controller is best, as it features a more traditional layout.
However, many families or groups play on the Nintendo Switch locally, with games like Super Mario Party or Mario Kart 8 Deluxe.
 In this case, having enough controllers for all players is ideal, even if each person only gets a single Joy-Con. Buying for a large group can be costly, though, so you might want to purchase some of the less expensive options like the PowerA Enhanced or the 8Bitdo Zero 2. Ultimately, it will come down to what games you play, how you play, and how many players you want to accommodate — along with budget.
Editors' Recommendations Nintendo Switch Black Friday deals: Consoles, games, and more Early PS5 controller Black Friday deal saves you $20 on an official model The best Switch games for 2023 Saves $40 on the Zelda edition of the Nintendo Switch OLED These are the best ultrawide monitors you buy in 2023 Best Products Nintendo Nintendo Switch Mobile When you have the best iPhone, you pretty much have infinite possibilities for keepingbusy and entertained, no matter where you are. Sure, the iPhone may not be marketed as a gaming phone specifically, but it's pretty powerful — especially with the A17 Pro in the latest iPhone 15 Pro. That new processor means the Apple mobile gaming experience is only getting better and better, with Apple's new chip being able to play console-level games like Assassin's Creed Mirage and the Resident Evil 4 remake.
While those games aren't available yet, there's no shortage of great games to play. But when the App Store has over a million apps, how are you supposed to find the best games to play? Don't worry -- we're here to help! Since there are a ton of games out there — and not every game is a winner — it's definitely hard to find games that are worth your time and energy. Whether you're looking for a simple match 3, an MMORPG, a dungeon crawler, or even something to just relax with, here are the best iPhone games you can play right now.
Computing AMD and Intel have fought for supremacy for decades, duking it out in a bid to make the best processors you can buy. The competition is fierce, and that's a great thing for PC enthusiasts. In 2022, the list of the best CPUs is larger than ever and packed with options from Team Red and Team Blue.
Intel's flagship Core i9-13900K tops our list, but there are great options regardless of your budget or purpose.
Computing Even while facing downAMD's Ryzen 7000 processors, Intel has come out on top with its Raptor Lake CPUs. The best Intel processor you can buy right now is the Core i5-13600K, but in a strange change of pace, Intel has several excellent options on the market right now.
From high-end gaming CPUs to some recent 12th-generation CPUs that are under $100, Intel has a compelling option at just about every price point. The AMD versus Intel war rages on, but for fans of Team Blue, these are the best Intel CPUs you can buy today.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
