Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best PS5 controllers for 2023 By Jesse Lennox Close The DualSense wireless controller that arrives with your PlayStation 5 is by no means an inferior gaming product. However, it does fall short for players who want to do a little more with their control methods.
Sony has acknowledged some shortcomings with its release of the new DualSense Edge , as well as the upcoming project Leonardo that caters to gamers with disabilities, but there are some third-party options that can fit your needs just as well.
Important note: Sony has strict compatibility guidelines for the PS5 controller. That means that an official PS4 controller from a third-party will work with the PS4 games that you play on your PS5 console, and Sony has assured players that fighting sticks and other accessories will be similarly supported. However, brand-new PS5 games are generally off-limits to PS4 controllers.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More Image used with permission by copyright holder Scuf Reflex FPS Enhanced grip Interchangeable thumbsticks Various profile settings Expensive Scuf fans won't be surprised that the controller brand was the first to announce an official third-party PS5 controller with all the bells and whistles, making it one of the most suitable replacements for Sony's own DualSense - especially for those looking for something a bit extra.
The base design of the controller is excellent, with adaptive triggers, a performance coating for an easy grip, textured thumbsticks for precision, and an overall solid design that's to be expected from an experienced company like Scuf. But that's just the beginning: This controller is also packed with extras, including interchangeable thumbsticks and four removable, remappable rear paddle buttons that you can customize with whatever options you want. Since you'll probably want different configurations with different games, there are also three different profile settings you can save and switch between whenever you want.
The Reflex FPS also comes in a variety of colors, designed to match the colors that the PS5 is finally available in as well, so you don't have to worry about your controllers clashing if you plan ahead! Image used with permission by copyright holder DualSense Edge Back paddles Easy to program Short-lasting battery Very expensive For the first time, Sony is offering its own official "pro"-style controller for its console. The DualSense Edge is a step up from the default controller in nearly every way, with customizable components, back paddles, and the ability to set control scheme profiles. Where the controller falls short is an unfortunate drop in battery life compared to the base controller, as well as the very high cost at $200. While this certainly is a premium controller, that price point alone may outweigh the positives for some.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Hexgaming Hex Ultimate Rear button paddles Slim triggers Adjustable thumbsticks Super pricey HexGaming starts with a basic DualSense PS5 controller and then upgrades into an esports-ready beast of a pro controller that's superior in almost every way. The rear button paddles include remapping software that allows you to change them on the fly for each game and program them with any other button activation you need. The top shoulder/trigger buttons have also been redesigned with a slimmer profile that allows for faster activation that may help gamers work on their reaction times. The controller also comes with "six-in-one" thumbsticks that allow you to adjust the height, pick a thumbstick grip that feels more comfortable (and prevents slipping), and more.
Finally, HexGaming offers a wide variety of themes so you can pick a visual design that you like the most without sacrificing quality. It should also work with the DualSense charging station. The only real downside of this Ultimate controller is that it's far more expensive than the original DualSense, so you will have to pay for what you get. It's hands down one of the best PS5 controllers on the market though.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Nacon Esports Revolution Unlimited Pro V3 Customizable sticks Button mapping Various profile settings No built-in speaker Nacon’s controller means business when it comes to thumbstick customization. The sticks are highly customizable, allowing you to adjust amplitude to exactly what suits the game you are playing, plus interchangeable heads to get exactly the feel that you want. You can also map buttons to specific actions and create several different profiles to switch between as needed. It supports both wired and wireless connections, depending on what you prefer and find the most reliable. The overall design is both comfortable and high-quality, making it a great pick for long sessions of serious gaming on the PS5 console.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Scuf Impact Removable paddles Traditional design Lots of customization As always, customizable controllers like these are expensive Scuf’s Impact controller has a bit more of a traditional shape and comes with a whole kit of customization options to get things just right. Along with the customizable controller faceplate, you get four removable paddles that fit into the back for some extra button mapping, electro-magnetic remapping options for easy swaps, adjustable hair-trigger, quick shift trigger stops, and interchangeable thumbsticks to find the best options. It’s the perfect choice if you love tons of personalization and tweaking the controller to find just the right setup. It also supports both wired and wireless modes.
Image used with permission by copyright holder AIM PS5 Controller Complete customization Surprisingly affordable Works with PS5 charging dock Doesn't impact performance Aim takes a different approach to customizing the PS5 DualSense controller: Their system allows you to pick each part of the controller and specify a different look so you get the precise appearance you want, right down to what each thumbstick looks like and the color of the touchpad. Each option gives at least a few primary colors to choose from, allowing gamers to tinker until they've replicated their favorite theme or invoked the color pattern of any character in media.
The advantage of this approach — in addition to the customization — is that it's still very affordable since the changes are all visual. The downside is that, unlike the HexGaming optimization, the Aim Controller won't actually change how the DualSense performs. The official DualSense controller is great, but the customization options here make it one of the best PS5 controllers. And it will still work perfectly with a default PS5 charging station.
Victrix Pro BFG Customizable modules Longer battery Easier repairs No DualSense haptics Expensive If you just want a solid controller you can depend on to last a long time, both in a single play session and over years, the Victrix Pro BFG covers both angles. In the short term, it ditches the battery-draining DualSense haptic features that many players opt to turn off anyway in favor of a much longer 20-hour battery life. Because you can swap out the sticks and D-pad, you don't have to worry about needing to replace the entire controller if one part breaks. Add in the back paddles and adjustable triggers and this is arguably the best option for the average gamer.
More Backbone One Best option for remote play Comfortable and easy to connect Same layout as traditional controller Only compatible with iPhones If you're a fan of game streaming , specifically using the PS5's remote play option, then you absolutely need a Backbone One. This device easily connects to your iPhone and effectively turns it into a handheld console. The button and stick layouts are exactly as they are on the PS5, comfortable, and keep you from having to block the screen using touch controls. It works completely off your phone's battery, meaning it will never die on you, and has its own audio jack for headphones too. The only downside is that Android users can't join in on the fun.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Thrustmaster T248, Racing Wheel and Magnetic Pedals Brand: THRUSTMASTER Feels realistic Lots of customization Leather wrap grip Expensive, but you get what you pay for If you're a huge fan of racing games , there's nothing like a realistic wheel and pedal set to really get in the zone — and this is one of the best models out there. You can order it now to ensure you get this wheel, which features leather wrapping for a luxurious grip and a built-in screen that can provide more than 20 different display options depending on the sort of data you want to see. The wheel houses 25 action buttons you can use and program, including dual-position encoders. There are also three preset modes you can switch between to adjust the advanced force feedback level. And don't forget the excellent magnetic pedal set, which sports four spring configurations for the brake pedal alone. If you want to race in style, nothing else can beat this Thrustmaster! Editors' Recommendations The brand new PS5 ‘Slim’ is already discounted The best Switch controllers for 2023 Early PS5 controller Black Friday deal saves you $20 on an official model The best games on PlayStation Plus, Extra, and Premium All upcoming PS5 games: 2023, 2024, and beyond Best Products Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Gaming Madden NFL Football is one of the most popular video game franchises of all time, and today its newest iteration — Madden NFL 24 — is seeing a massive discount. You can get Madden NFL 24 for just $43 at Amazon right now, and it’s available at that price for both the Xbox Series X and the PlayStation 5. The game regularly costs $70, making this deal worth a savings of $27. Free shipping is included with a purchase as well.
Why you should buy Madden NFL 24 The Madden NFL video game franchise is a staple in sports gaming, with previous versions of the game still among the best sports games on Xbox Series X. Madden NFL 24 advances the franchise significantly, bringing what’s known as Sapien Technology to the game. It’s a leap forward in character technology and makes the football players within the game more responsive and truer to player motion in real life. This also brings improvements in gameplay realism, as it tends to feel more lifelike as you control the players in different ways. Madden’s FieldSENSE also provides an enhanced gameplay foundation that gives you greater control.
Gaming With Marvel's Spider-Man 2 for the PlayStation 5 released and already receiving rave reviews, gamers who haven't played its predecessor, Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales, may want to take advantage of Walmart's offer. Instead of $70, you can get the game's Ultimate Edition for just $43, for savings of $27. On top of that, you'll also get a digital copy of Marvel's Spider-Man Remastered. That's a lot of value from one of the most attractive PS5 game deals that we've come across recently, which is why we don't expect this bargain to last long. Buy it now while you still can.
Why you should buy Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales for PS5 Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales continues the story of Marvel's Spider-Man, but shifts the focus on the titular character amid the chaos of New York. There's a lot of similarities between Miles Morales and Peter Parker -- including their acrobatic web-slinging and explosive combat skills -- but there are also significant differences such as Miles' bio-electric venom blast attacks and camouflage power. You'll have to master them quickly though, as a war has broken out in the middle of the city.
Gaming The prices of games for the PlayStation 5 have steadily increased, with the best PS5 games costing $70 for base editions and more than $100 for special editions. Fortunately, with the arrival of Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days 2023 and the return of Prime Day deals, other retailers are also offering PS5 game deals. One of the top sources for discounts is Best Buy, which has slashed the prices of some of the best RPGs for PS5 and best PS5 games for kids. We've selected our top picks from the sale, but you should also take a look at what else will catch your eye.
To start us off, we have some of the most popular games on sale right now, such as Elden Ring for Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
