Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best PS5 headsets for 2023 By Jesse Lennox Close Whether you want to experience Elden Ring in all its immersive glory or the dazzling fights of God of War Ragnarok , your PlayStation 5 deserves an excellent headset to enable your gaming. For that next level of immersion and communication, we suggest these top-notch headsets packed with the right audio features! If you are wondering — yes, PS4 headsets are compatible with the PS5 too. But this is still a great time to upgrade, so check out these great new picks with both wireless and wired options available (plus a range of prices so you can match your budget).
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More Jacob Roach / Digital Trends SteelSeries Arctis Nova Pro Wireless Top-tier audio quality Expansive Sonar software High-quality ANC Comfortable fit with multiple adjustment points Fully retractable microphone Dual USB inputs GameDAC doesn't fully integrate with Sonar Microphone is prone to pick up noise Spatial audio can have nasty interactions with EQ If cost is no object and you want the latest headphone specs in a wireless package that’s comfortable for your console gaming setup, SteelSeries has the answer with its Arctis Nova Pro Wireless headset. SteelSeries has always had excellent gaming audio quality, and the Arctis line has been a reliable pick for years, but this model goes beyond with a full suite of features including drivers that support the PS5’s Tempest 3D audio, active noise cancellation with an included transparency mode, and a mic with AI noise-canceling technology to cut out all background noise when you’re talking.
But the Arctis Nova Pro can do much more, too. It comes with two batteries you can swap between in a moment in case one is running low, a multi-system receiver for fine-tuning audio to get it exactly the way you want, and simultaneous Bluetooth/2.4GHz connections so you can stream music or calls to your headset without getting in the way of your PS5 connection. It’s one of the most complete, console-friendly headset packages we’ve found so far.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Sony PS5 Pulse 3D Wireless Headset Supports 3D audio formats PSVR ready Perfectly matches the PS5 12-hour battery life Audio quality is limited compared to high-end models Sony’s own wireless headset, designed specifically for the PS5 consoles , is an easy recommendation for anyone who wants a pair of high-quality headphones that are specifically designed to match the PlayStation 5’s aesthetic. But that’s only part of what makes this headset special — it’s also specifically made to support 3D Audio formats on PS5, so it has the best chance of working with the latest PS5 games and supporting all the little audio cues that developers create, from pinpointing footsteps to copying the sound of wind rushing through the trees above you.
The headset also has dual noise-canceling mics for better chat quality, and although the sleek design doesn’t make it obvious, there are onboard controls for mic muting, controlling master volume, and adjusting the chat mix. It’s also designed for full support of the PSVR! The headset charges via USB-C and has a battery life rated to around 12 hours.
SteelSeries SteelSeries Arctis 7P Designed for low-latency wireless connections 24-hour battery life Retractable mic Less sound customization than the Arctis Nova Pro Steelseries also has the excellent Arctis 7P, a somewhat more affordable wireless headset designed for PlayStation 5 (plus compatibility with PC, Switch, Android, and more). SteelSeries created this headset to support low-latency gameplay, which means audio data is less likely to get lost on the 2.4GHz wireless connection, and you get to hear every little detail more reliably.
The headset includes microphone monitoring features with a retractable, noise-canceling mic, and onboard controls for muting — plus options to share audio or use a wired connection if you prefer. The headset also supports an impressive 24-hour battery life.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder JBL Quantum 810 Dual surround sound Noise cancelling Long battery life Can't detatch microphone The Quantum line of JBL headsets has been making great strides with each iteration. The jump from the 800 series to 810, however, is far greater than that small numerical difference might suggest. These headphones are completely wireless, with a wired option, and compatible not only with your PS5 but basically any other device you have that has a Wi-FI or Bluetooth connection.
The surround sound, coupled with noise canceling, keeps you fully immersed in the game, especially with the amazing battery life of up to 30 hours of playtime. While the mic isn't as adjustable as others, and can't be removed, you can at least fold it up to get it out of the way if you're playing solo.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Razer BlackShark V2X A good mid-range model for gamers who want to save 50mm titanium drivers Positional audio support May be too large for some users Yes, Razer had PS5-compatible headsets! And this BlackShark is especially impressive, with its massive 50mm titanium drivers and extra-comfy memory foam cushions (not quite as durable as some pads, but really great for preventing headaches). And while the headset is wired (3.5mm jack), this also lowers the price and makes the Razer headset an excellent pick if you are looking for a budget option. It supports 7.1 simulated surround sound and positional audio, so performance is certainly not an issue here, and the cardioid mic — designed to pick up a heart-shaped sensitivity pattern that helps avoid feedback — includes noise-isolating technology to reduce all background noises while chatting.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Astro A50 Headset + Basestation Gen 4 Durable design 40mm neodymium magnet drivers Flexible mic Base station suports sound cards A variety of ear pad options Design isn't as comfortable as some picks The A50s are known for being consistently among the world's best gaming headsets, and the latest generation maintains the standard. The remarkable wireless headset features PS5 compatibility, 40mm neodymium magnet drivers for excellent sound, and 3D Audio and Dolby Audio compatibility. The convenient, flexible flip-to-mute mic is more durable than it looks.
The design is outstanding, and it's also incredibly functional. The charging base station supports USB sound cards and you can swap out the ear pads for other models made of different materials. Astro's audio software allows the built-in MixAmp features to provide plenty of tweaking options, too.
Frequently Asked Questions Any headphones that have an audio jack can plug into the PS5 controller. Of course, results will vary greatly depending on the type of headset.
Yes, there won't be a problem. However, PS4 headsets are unlikely to support more advanced features like PS5 3D audio formats.
Yes, you can use wireless Bluetooth headphones with your PS5, though the process isn't as simple as you'd hope. Thankfully, we have a detailed guide to show you how to do it.
Editors' Recommendations The brand new PS5 ‘Slim’ is already discounted Best Black Friday gaming headset deals on Logitech, Corsair, and more The best PS5 controllers for 2023 This PS5 bundle just got a price cut for the holidays Early PS5 controller Black Friday deal saves you $20 on an official model Best Products Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Gaming The PlayStation 5 is looking to dominate the console landscape with its incredible library of games. Like the rest of the industry, Sony saw several major game delays in 2022 (and more this year), but has since dropped several new hit games like God of War Ragnarok, the Resident Evil 4 remake, and Alan Wake 2, among others. There are plenty of games out on PS5 for every kind of gamer.
And there are plenty more great titles on the way — don't forget to check out our list of the best upcoming PS5 games that will come out later this year.
Gaming The Nintendo Switch has had a lot of success in the nearly six years since its release. The console-handheld hybrid has been on the market since 2017, and a slew of fantastic games from first- and third-party developers have launched over the course of the system's life cycle. Recently, heavy hitters such as Metroid Dread, Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, and Kirby and the Forgotten Land have boosted the system's appeal, while a healthy list of upcoming Switch games continues to drum up excitement.
There are plenty of incredible games to enjoy on the Switch right now. But which ones should you check out? These are the best Nintendo Switch games (including free-to-play titles) for 2023.
Action Gaming PlayStation Plus has gone through several iterations and changes since it was first introduced. Originally, the service wasn't required for online play at all and rewarded subscribers with extra discounts and free monthly games. Once the PlayStation 4 generation began, it was required for online play, but still offered those same benefits.
Now, PS Plus is divided into three different tiers of subscriptions. The basic tier, PS Plus Essential, still gets three games per month added, while the Extra and Premium tiers will have a varying number of games added to their catalogs. With hundreds of games already and more coming and going all the time, even the most dedicated gamer won't be able to play everything on offer. To help you get the most bang for your buck, and so that no hidden gems fly under your radar, here are all the best games to play on PS Plus Essential, Extra, and Premium right now.
Best PS Plus Essential games As is usually the case, everyone with the lowest tier of PS Plus gets three games this month, two with PlayStation 5 versions and one with a PS4 version. Here's what you can play this month: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
