Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best PSVR2 Games PSVR 2 on PC PSVR Games on PSVR2 PSVR vs PSVR 2 PSVR 2 vs Meta Quest 2 Home Gaming Guides The best PSVR2 games By Sam Hill Close The newest VR headset on the market, the PlayStation VR2 is packed full of top-of-the-line tech to make your gaming experience as immersive and comfortable as possible. But what are killer specs without fantastic games? PSVR2 has quite the library of great VR games already available, with more on the way. Whether you’re a VR expert looking to check out your favorite VR games on the latest headset or a newcomer diving into VR for the first time , you can’t go wrong with these steller titles on the PSVR2 Horizon Call of the Mountain PlayStation VR2 Adventure Firesprite Ltd Sony Interactive Entertainment February 22, 2023 Read less Gran Turismo 7 PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, PlayStation VR2 Racing, Simulator, Sport Polyphony Digital Sony Interactive Entertainment March 04, 2022 ibrations through the headset.
Read less Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music The best Call of Duty games, ranked Fantavision 202X PlayStation 5, PlayStation VR2 Puzzle Cosmo Machia Inc.
Cosmo Machia Inc.
February 22, 2023 Read less Resident Evil Village PC (Microsoft Windows), Mac, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S, Google Stadia, PlayStation VR2 Shooter, Adventure Capcom Development Division 1, Capcom Capcom May 06, 2021 Read less Among Us VR Meta VR, SteamVR, PlayStation VR, Meta Quest, Meta Quest 2 Strategy, Indie Innersloth November 10, 2022 Read less Moss: Book II SteamVR, PlayStation VR, Meta Quest 2, PlayStation VR2 Platform, Puzzle, Adventure Polyarc Games Polyarc Games March 31, 2022 Moss: Book II feels like it was built to run on the PSVR2. The award-winning title is an excellent adventure game filled with clever puzzle platforming, rewarding exploration, and easy-to-grasp combat that puts it on par with the greats of its genre. The VR element only enhances the experience.
Read less Tetris Effect PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, SteamVR, PlayStation VR, Meta Quest, Meta Rift, PlayStation VR2 Music, Puzzle Resonair, Monstars Inc.
Enhance November 09, 2018 Read less No Man's Sky PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 4, Xbox One, SteamVR, PlayStation VR, PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S, Meta Rift, PlayStation VR2 Role-playing (RPG), Simulator, Adventure, Indie Hello Games Hello Games, 505 Games, Sony Interactive Entertainment August 09, 2016 N o Man’s Sky VR is an immersive experience that takes players on a journey through an endless universe of procedurally generated planets, creatures, and space anomalies. This game is a great example of the possibilities of VR, allowing players to feel like they are actually exploring the vastness of space. The game’s mechanics, such as flying spacecraft and discovering new worlds, will take some getting used to in VR form, but it’s totally worth it.
Read less Kayak VR: Mirage Windows Mixed Reality, Meta VR, SteamVR, Meta Rift, PlayStation VR2 Racing, Simulator, Sport, Indie, Arcade Better Than Life Better Than Life February 22, 2022 Read less What the Bat? SteamVR, Meta Quest, Meta Quest 2 Simulator, Sport, Indie Triband Triband November 17, 2022 What the Bat? isn’t the most impressive VR experience, but it brings a comical and whimsical experience to the PSVR2 that you just won’t find with other titles. With baseball bats for hands, players must attempt to hit home runs, herd sheep, and work as museum security, among other simple but wacky tasks.
Read less Demeo Meta VR, SteamVR, PlayStation 5 , Meta Quest, Meta Quest 2, PlayStation VR2 Role-playing (RPG), Strategy, Adventure, Indie, Card & Board Game Resolution Games Resolution Games May 06, 2021 Demeo is a VR gem that brings the tactile experience of table-top RPG gaming to virtual reality. With its turn-based mechanics and co-op capabilities, it’s an immersive and strategic adventure for up to four players.
Read less Ragnarock Meta VR, SteamVR, Meta Quest, Meta Quest 2, PlayStation VR2 Music, Racing, Sport, Indie, Arcade WanadevStudio WanadevStudio July 15, 2021 Ragnarock is a rhythm game that has players riding on the back of a Viking longship and drumming along to a killer metal soundtrack to keep the crew paddling. This is the best game outright that pushes the limits of the PSVR2’s audio capabilities.
Read less Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy The best Mario games of all time, ranked Where to find planes in Fortnite OG PS Plus is getting an underrated RPG cult classic this month These are the best microphones for streaming you can buy Sony Sony PlayStation Virtual Reality Gaming The DualSense wireless controller that arrives with your PlayStation 5 is by no means an inferior gaming product. However, it does fall short for players who want to do a little more with their control methods.
Sony has acknowledged some shortcomings with its release of the new DualSense Edge, as well as the upcoming project Leonardo that caters to gamers with disabilities, but there are some third-party options that can fit your needs just as well.
Gaming The PlayStation 5 has finally established a respectable list of console-exclusive titles between first- and third-party developers. These games are able to take full advantage of the PS5 hardware thanks to not needing to worry about developing for other platforms. If you want to play some of the most impressive games you can on your system, no matter what genre you like most, these exclusives are the ones to check out.
In this guide, we'll round up the very best exclusive games the system has to offer. The PS5's exclusive library will undoubtedly grow throughout its life cycle, and we will update this article accordingly as more games come out.
Gaming The nominees for The Game Awards 2023 are here following a livestream hosted by Geoff Keighley on Monday morning. It's been an excellent year for video games, and the nominations reflect that, at least in the AAA space. Baldur's Gate 3 and Alan Wake 2 garnered the most nominations, with eight each, but titles like Marvel's Spider-Man 2, The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom, and Super Mario Bros. Wonder also garnered several nominations.
In terms of indies, none got that much love in the show's biggest categories. However, games like Cocoon, Dredge, Viewfinder, and Terra Nil did pop up multiple times in the indie-friendly categories. We'll have a few weeks to think about all of these nominations ahead of The Game Awards 2023. This Keighley-hosted event is essentially the video game industry's version of the Oscars. It's one of the biggest stages where developers are awarded for their work and also doubles as a lengthy showcase featuring many game announcements and other gaming-related world premieres. This year is shaping up to be no different and might even go bigger as it's the 10th annual The Game Awards show.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
