Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Products The best Sega Genesis games of all time By Steven Petite and Gabe Gurwin Close The Sega Genesis was an incredible system when it was launched in 1989. Featuring hit franchises such as Sonic and Mortal Kombat games , the console was able to go toe-to-toe with the SNES games — an impressive feat when you look at all the series only available on Nintendo’s system. But the Genesis was no slouch in the games department. Not only was it home to exclusives such as Streets of Rage 2 and Altered Beast , but it also made use of a unique subscription service called Sega Channel. This gave owners rotating access to some of the best titles the system had to offer, much like PlayStation Plus and Xbox Game Pass do today.
While Sega would eventually abandon its role as a console manufacturer, the Genesis stands as a crowning achievement for the company. Whether you were looking for a brutal platforming game or a laidback aquatic adventure, the console had it all. Without further ado, here are the best Sega Genesis games of all time.
Action Michael Jackson's Moonwalker PC DOS, Commodore C64/128, Amiga, Amstrad CPC, ZX Spectrum, MSX, Sega Mega Drive/Genesis, Arcade, Atari ST/STE, Sega Master System Shooter, Music, Platform, Hack and slash/Beat 'em up, Arcade Emerald Software, Triumph Studios, Sega Enterprises Sega Enterprises, U.S. Gold July 24, 1990 Read less Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Comix Zone Linux, Wii, PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PC DOS, Mac, Game Boy Advance, Sega Mega Drive/Genesis Hack and slash/Beat 'em up, Arcade Sega Technical Institute Sega August 01, 1995 Read less Pulseman Wii, Sega Mega Drive/Genesis Platform Game Freak Sega July 22, 1994 Read less Streets of Rage 2 Linux, Wii, PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 3, Sega Mega Drive/Genesis, Sega Game Gear, iOS, Arcade, Sega Master System Hack and slash/Beat 'em up, Arcade Ancient, MNM Software, Shout! Designworks, H.I.C., Sega Sega, Sega December 20, 1992 Read less Gunstar Heroes Linux, Wii, PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Sega Mega Drive/Genesis, Sega Game Gear, iOS Shooter, Platform, Arcade M2, Treasure Sega September 09, 1993 Read less Action-adventure Ecco the Dolphin Linux, Wii, PC (Microsoft Windows), Xbox 360, Mac, Sega Mega Drive/Genesis, Sega Game Gear, Nintendo 3DS, iOS, Sega Master System, Sega CD Adventure Novotrade Sega December 23, 1992 Read less The Lost World: Jurassic Park Sega Mega Drive/Genesis Shooter Appaloosa Interactive Sega September 16, 1997 Read less Fighting Samurai Shodown Wii, PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 2, Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Sega Mega Drive/Genesis, Game Boy, Sega Game Gear, 3DO Interactive Multiplayer, Arcade, Sega Master System, Sega CD, Neo Geo MVS, Neo Geo AES, Nintendo Switch, Neo Geo CD Fighting SNK SNK August 11, 1993 Read less Super Street Fighter II: The New Challengers Wii, Amiga, Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Sega Mega Drive/Genesis, Wii U, Arcade, Super Famicom, New Nintendo 3DS Fighting, Arcade Capcom Capcom September 10, 1993 Read less Fatal Fury Wii, Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Arcade, Neo Geo MVS, Neo Geo AES, Nintendo Switch, Neo Geo CD Fighting SNK, Takara, HAMSTER Corporation SNK, Sega, D4 Enterprise January 20, 1991 Read less Mortal Kombat II PlayStation, PlayStation 3, PC DOS, Amiga, Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Sega Mega Drive/Genesis, Sega 32X, Sega Saturn, Game Boy, Arcade, Sega Master System Fighting Midway Midway, Acclaim Entertainment April 03, 1993 Read less Platformers Sonic the Hedgehog 2 Wii, PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Sega Mega Drive/Genesis, Nintendo 3DS, Wii U Platform, Adventure Sonic Team, Sega Technical Institute Sega November 21, 1992 Read less Earthworm Jim Wii, PC (Microsoft Windows), PC DOS, Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Game Boy Advance, Sega Mega Drive/Genesis, Game Boy, Sega Game Gear, Super Famicom, Sega Master System Shooter, Platform, Adventure Shiny Entertainment Playmates Interactive Entertainment, Virgin Interactive Entertainment (Europe) Ltd., Takara, Activision October 01, 1994 Read less Puzzle games Dr. Robotnik's Mean Bean Machine Linux, Wii, PC (Microsoft Windows), Sega Mega Drive/Genesis, Sega Game Gear, Nintendo 3DS, Sega Master System Puzzle, Strategy, Arcade Compile Sega November 26, 1993 Originally called Puyo Puyo in Japan, Mean Bean Machine received a name-change as well as new art direction, being remade as a Sonic -themed game for the Western release. It is a tile-matching puzzle game in which players control grids into which various colored beans will fall. Players must move the beans around, trying to group at least four of one color together to cause the beans to disappear. If a player’s grid fills with beans, they lose. The goal is thus to continue clearing your side of beans for as long as you can. Mean Bean Machine includes a few different modes to play. Scenario Mode pits players against a variety of enemies accessible via 13 individual stages, which eventually culminate in a battle with Sonic villain Dr. Robotnik. Exercise Mode is a sort of endurance test, gradually increasing the speed the beans fall as time goes on. Last but not least, Vs. Mode allows two players to battle one another, much like the original Tetris.
Dr. Robotnik’s Mean Machine is a rapid and addictive puzzle game, simple and timeless. The game is available on the Sega Genesis Mini.
Read less Role-playing Phantasy Star IV: The End of the Millennium Wii, PC (Microsoft Windows), Sega Mega Drive/Genesis Role-playing (RPG) Sega December 17, 1993 Read less Sword of Vermilion Wii, Sega Mega Drive/Genesis Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Sega AM2 Sega December 16, 1989 Read less Shadowrun Sega Mega Drive/Genesis Role-playing (RPG), Hack and slash/Beat 'em up, Adventure BlueSky Software Sega December 31, 1994 Read less Beyond Oasis Wii, PC (Microsoft Windows), Sega Mega Drive/Genesis Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Ancient SEGA of America, Sega Enterprises, Sega Europe December 01, 1994 Read less Phantasy Star II Wii, PC (Microsoft Windows), Xbox 360, Mac, Sega Mega Drive/Genesis Role-playing (RPG) Sega R&D 2 Sega Enterprises, Sega March 21, 1989 Read less Shining Force II Wii, PC (Microsoft Windows), Sega Mega Drive/Genesis Role-playing (RPG), Strategy, Turn-based strategy (TBS) Camelot Software Planning Sega October 01, 1993 Read less Sports Madden NFL '94 Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Sega Mega Drive/Genesis Simulator, Sport Visual Concepts, High Score Productions Electronic Arts December 31, 1993 Read less NBA Jam Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Sega Mega Drive/Genesis, Game Boy, Sega Game Gear, Arcade, Sega CD Sport Midway Midway June 02, 1993 Read less Strategy Herzog Zwei Sega Mega Drive/Genesis Real Time Strategy (RTS), Strategy Technosoft Technosoft, SEGA of America December 15, 1989 Read less Dune: The Battle for Arrakis Real Time Strategy (RTS), Strategy Read less ToeJam & Earl Wii, PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation 3, Sega Mega Drive/Genesis Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Johnson Voorsanger Productions SEGA of America March 12, 1991 The game leaves a lot to be desired in terms of graphics that make the original Zelda look modern and pacing that feels too rushed to make it fun. However, the game has a fun, nostalgic 90s style complete with a colorful world, fun characters, and humor. Since you’ll spend most of your time wandering among the various stages, you’ll have plenty of time to explore the worlds. Several temporary power-ups boost your movement speed to help you beat enormous hamsters, bees, and other opponents. The game ups the stakes with wrapped gifts that deliver either useful superpowers or massive obstacles. For example, a good gift might give you the power of flight or teleportation. A lousy gift might end your game by taking a life or draining your health. There’s no way to know which one you’ll unwrap – a little like real life. Players can opt for single-player or co-op mode. If you play alone, you’ll go through a storyline that follows Wiener and Funklord, while co-op lets you play directly with other gamers.
ToeJam & Earl’s upbeat, Herbie-Hancock vibe of the soundtrack is excellent, and you can play it on the Sega Genesis Mini.
Read less Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy Best Lenovo laptop Black Friday deals: Chromebooks, gaming laptops, and more Nintendo Switch Black Friday deals: Consoles, games, and more Best Razer gaming laptop Black Friday deals worth shopping now Best Black Friday gaming headset deals on Logitech, Corsair, and more Best Products Gaming Gamers who need to replace their aging screens should take advantage of this year's Black Friday deals for a new gaming monitor, as there are discounts offered for displays made by some of the most trusted brands like Samsung, HP, Dell, and Lenovo. Among the most important things to consider for your purchase are size, resolution, and refresh rate -- and of course, if the price fits your budget. There's no shortage of options that you can find online from the different retailers, but you help you make a decision quickly, we've gathered our top picks below. We've organized these monitors by refresh rate. If you prioritize resolution, consider checking out the best 4K monitor Black Friday deals or 5K monitor Black Friday deals.
Best 165Hz gaming monitor Black Friday deals A monitor's refresh rate determines how often the images on the screen are updated -- the higher the refresh rate, the smoother your gameplay will be. A 165Hz refresh rate is just above our computer monitor buying guide's recommended range of 120Hz to 144Hz, and it's great for gamers on a budget as you'll still be getting proper support for your video games' higher frame rates. Size and resolution are other factors to consider though, so you should be going for the monitor that your budget allows.
Gaming If you're running out of storage space on your PS5, don't miss the discounts that you can get from Black Friday deals for an internal SSD for the console. The original PlayStation 5 comes with a 825GB hard drive but only 667GB is usable, while the new model features a 1TB hard drive with about 842GB that's usable. That may look like a lot, but with the space that the best PS5 games take plus all your save data and screenshots, that much storage will get used up quickly. Fortunately, there are savings that you can pocket from buying a PS5 SSD during Black Friday from retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart, but as with all the other PS5 Black Friday deals happening now, you need to act fast because stocks may run out soon. If you like to switch between consoles or carry your save games on the go, consider browsing the best Black Friday external hard drive deals.
Best PS5 SSD Black Friday deal The WD_BLACK SN850X internal SSD, which was made for compatibility with the PlayStation 5, will add 1TB of extra storage space to the console, so you'll be able to install even more PS5 games. The internal SSD offers speeds of up to 7,300 MB/s, which will allow it to keep up with the performance of the console, and with the WD_BLACK Dashboard, you'll be able to monitor its health. It also comes with a built-in heatsink to make sure that it doesn't overheat even when you've been playing for hours. Right now, the 1TB WD_BLACK SN850X internal SSD, originally priced at $180, is down to just $85 from Amazon for Black Friday, for savings of $95.
Computing Acer is one of the most trusted brands for laptops and monitors, so it's not a surprise that there's always high demand when its products appear in Black Friday deals. With prices ranging from affordable to premium, there's something for you no matter your budget, but if you've got an eye on one of Acer's more popular devices, it's highly recommended that you proceed with the purchase immediately because we're not sure how long stocks will last. We've gathered our favorite Acer Black Friday deals to help you make a quick decision, so don't hesitate with pushing through with the transaction if something catches your eye.
Acer laptop Black Friday deals Acer is offering Chromebooks and laptops across all budget ranges, so you can take your pick if you just need a device to perform basic functions or a machine that will handle demanding tasks. You should check our laptop buying guide to figure out what specifications you should be aiming for, but at the very least, you know that you'll be getting great value if you take advantage of Acer laptop Black Friday deals.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
