Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Guides The best SNES games of all time By Steven Petite Close When the Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES) launched, it was an instant success following some of the legendary Nintendo Entertainment System (NES). Nintendo sold out of the system of the initial shipment of 300,000 systems within hours, making it one of the most successful console launches in history.
 Given the time of the system’s release, the SNES gave us a groundbreaking chance to play video games at home relatively inexpensively.
The system offered now-classic games and follow-ups to some of the best NES games with Mortal Kombat, Legend of Zelda, Castlevania , and, of course, some of the best Mario games.
The system brings back fond memories for lots of players, but because it was so long ago, some of our favorites have been lost to time. To highlight some of these missing classics, we have compiled a list of some of the best games the SNES had to offer.
If you’re diving into Nintendo history, you should also check out our round-ups of the best games for Game Boy Color , Nintendo 64 , Game Boy Advance , Gamecube , Wii and Switch.
 There are also a lot of great Nintendo titles included in Digital Trends’ ranking of the top 50 best video games of all time.
Best Black Friday gaming laptop deals: Cheapest prices today The best Call of Duty games, ranked One of the best sci-fi games ever made is coming to Nintendo Switch next month Mortal Kombat II PlayStation, PlayStation 3, PC DOS, Amiga, Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Sega Mega Drive/Genesis, Sega 32X, Sega Saturn, Game Boy, Arcade, Sega Master System Fighting Midway Midway, Acclaim Entertainment April 03, 1993 Read less Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Turtles in Time Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Arcade, Super Famicom Hack and slash/Beat 'em up, Arcade Konami Konami March 01, 1991 Read less Kirby's Dream Course Wii, Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Nintendo 3DS, Wii U, Super Famicom Puzzle, Sport HAL Laboratory, Nintendo Nintendo, Nintendo September 21, 1994 Read less Star Fox Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Super Famicom Shooter Nintendo EAD Nintendo February 21, 1993 Read less F-Zero Wii, Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Wii U, Super Famicom, New Nintendo 3DS, Satellaview Racing Nintendo EAD St. GIGA, Nintendo November 21, 1990 Read less Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars Wii, Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Wii U, Super Famicom Platform, Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Square Enix, Square Nintendo March 09, 1996 Read less Shadowrun Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Super Famicom Role-playing (RPG) Beam Software Data East May 01, 1993 Read less ActRaiser Wii, Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Wii U, Super Famicom, Satellaview Fighting, Simulator, Strategy Quintet Square Enix, Enix America Corporation, Macrospace, Enix Corporation, St. GIGA December 16, 1990 Read less Contra III: The Alien Wars Wii, Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Wii U, Super Famicom, New Nintendo 3DS Shooter, Adventure Konami Konami February 28, 1992 Read less Super Ghouls 'n Ghosts Wii, Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Game Boy Advance, Wii U, Nintendo Switch, New Nintendo 3DS Platform, Adventure Capcom Capcom USA, Nintendo, Capcom October 04, 1991 Read less Mega Man X2 Wii, Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Wii U, Super Famicom, New Nintendo 3DS Shooter, Platform, Adventure Capcom, Capcom Capcom December 16, 1994 Read less Super Mario All-Stars Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Super Famicom Platform Nintendo EAD Nintendo July 14, 1993 Read less Donkey Kong Country Wii, Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Wii U, Super Famicom, New Nintendo 3DS Platform, Adventure Rare, Nintendo Nintendo November 18, 1994 Read less Super Castlevania IV Wii, Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Nintendo 3DS, Wii U, New Nintendo 3DS Platform, Adventure Konami Konami October 31, 1991 Read less Secret of Mana Wii, Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Android, iOS, Wii U Role-playing (RPG) Square Square August 06, 1993 Read less Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Super Famicom, Satellaview Platform Nintendo EAD St. GIGA, Nintendo August 05, 1995 Read less Super Mario Kart Wii, Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Wii U, Super Famicom, New Nintendo 3DS Racing, Arcade Nintendo EAD Nintendo August 27, 1992 Read less Super Street Fighter II Turbo PC DOS, Amiga, Dreamcast, Game Boy Advance, 3DO Interactive Multiplayer, Arcade Fighting Capcom, GameTek, Inc., Ubisoft February 23, 1994 Read less Final Fantasy IV Wii, PlayStation, Wii U, Super Famicom, WonderSwan Color Role-playing (RPG) Square Square July 19, 1991 Read less EarthBound Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Wii U, New Nintendo 3DS Role-playing (RPG), Turn-based strategy (TBS), Adventure Creatures Inc., HAL Laboratory Nintendo August 27, 1994 Read less Final Fantasy VI Wii, PlayStation, Super Famicom Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Square Soft Square Enix, Square Soft, Sony Computer Entertainment Europe April 02, 1994 Read less Super Mario World Wii, Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Wii U, Super Famicom, New Nintendo 3DS Platform, Adventure Nintendo EAD Nintendo November 21, 1990 Read less Chrono Trigger Wii, PC (Microsoft Windows), PlayStation, PlayStation 3, Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Nintendo DS, Android, Super Famicom Role-playing (RPG) Square Square March 11, 1995 Read less Super Metroid Wii, Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Nintendo 3DS, Wii U, Nintendo Switch, New Nintendo 3DS Shooter, Platform, Adventure Nintendo R&D1, Nintendo Nintendo March 19, 1994 Read less The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past Wii, Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), Wii U, Super Famicom, New Nintendo 3DS, Satellaview Role-playing (RPG), Adventure Nintendo, Nintendo EAD St. GIGA, Nintendo November 21, 1991 Few video game series carry the reverence the video game industry holds for The Legend of Zelda games.
 This franchise has been around for almost 30 years and has introduced generations of gamers to fantastic games. It’s one of the most influential series, on par with titles like Super Mario games. There are points to be made for which Zelda game is the best today — many people would argue for a more recent entry, Breath of the Wild — but for a long time, The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past was the pinnacle of the series and the best game in the SNES’s stellar library. This installment in the Legend of Zelda franchise is a classic because of the outstanding gameplay.
A Link to the Past is an incredibly exciting adventure, and it also introduces concepts that you will recognize from other Zelda games, including the Dark World, or the Sages. The story of A Link to the Past influenced the subsequent games in the franchise. The vast lands of Hyrule and the Dark World are jam-packed with secrets to uncover, making for a thrilling playing experience. The game’s secrets and exploration mechanism are memorable. Finding a cave’s entrance was a wildly exciting adventure, allowing you to imagine all the challenges and hidden treasures awaiting you. The dungeons in A Link to the Past are perfect examples of the ones all The Legend of Zelda games are famous for.
A Link to the Past dungeons aren’t easy, but they’re fair. Winning the exclusive treasures and weapons deep within them transforms Link from a green-clothed explorer into a formidable warrior. Other video games encourage players to crush their foes, but A Link to the Past manages to provide entertainment and a challenge without promoting needless violence. To win the game, you have to defeat Ganon and all the other villains – but you’ll spend most of the game solving puzzles and unraveling adventures.
A Link to the Past delivers a unique experience by focusing on independent exploration rather than simply hunting and killing. Like other games in the Legend of Zelda series, A Link to the Past instills child-like wonder and curiosity while cultivating a deep appreciation of a plot and the power of character.
Read less Editors' Recommendations The best handheld gaming PCs you can buy The best Mario games of all time, ranked These are the best microphones for streaming you can buy Netflix subscribers are getting one of the decade’s best games The PS5 games with the best graphics Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming Murphy is far more than a man in RoboCop: Rogue City. His robotic and cybernetic enhancements have made him the perfect crime-fighting machine, or so we thought. As it turns out, there is a lot of room for upgrades in your new body and multiple ways to invest your points. The tree is broken down into eight different categories, and each one has three unique perks sprinkled in that give you new and powerful abilities. Or rather, some of them do. Depending on how you want to dispense justice, there are plenty of skills that will be a complete waste of time to get. Before you go on your quest to serve the public trust, protect the innocent, and uphold the law, make sure you know the best skills to unlock in RoboCop: Rogue City.
Best skills to unlock The skill tree in RoboCop: Rogue City is broken into the following eight categories: Combat, Armor, Vitality, Engineering, Focus, Scanning, Deduction, and Psychology. There are 10 slots in each, with perks unlocking at the second, sixth, and final slots. Note that once a skill point is invested, you cannot change your mind later.
Shield You may be in a shiny metallic body, but you aren't invincible. Especially in the early game, you will find yourself a bit less tanky than you expect. Thankfully all you need to do is pump two points into the Armor tree to get the Shield ability. Once active, you reduce all incoming damage by 80%. If you're digging that feeling, you can even go to the next perk which is High Damage Reduction. This is a passive skill that automatically cuts explosive and high-caliber weapon damage by 25%. There's no need to max out this tree since Deflect isn't all that useful in the long run.
Fuse Boxes Recovery Taking less damage is great, but what about when you need to heal? The first perk in Vitality makes Fuse Boxes healing items that restore 50% of your health, plus increases how many OCP Recovery Charges you can store up to 4. Depending on how difficult you find the game, you can continue down to basically get a better version of this skill that makes Fuse Boxes restore all your health and cap your Recovery Charges at 5, or invest all the way and unlock Auto Regeneration to passively restore HP up to 75%.
Dash You're a walking tank, but that doesn't mean you have to move like one. Dash unlocks on the second node of the Engineering tree and gives you, well, a dash! You can use it to slam into enemies, get into or out of cover, or just maneuver around however you need. Movement in RoboCop: Rogue City is a bit clunky, so this makes combat far more responsive.
Enhanced Learning This will be a skill you need to spend a lot of time investing in the Deduction tree to get but should be done as early as possible if you're going to go for it. Enhanced Learning increases all XP gain by 30%, thus making all future skills easier to get. Plus you will get Enhanced Scanning and Enhanced Map on the way, which make doing side missions and gathering items around the map way easier.
Gaming Blink while playing one of the best city-building games, and you'll lose countless hours expanding your city, refining your infrastructure, and focusing your trade. Ever since the original Sim City, we've been losing sleep designing the perfect utopias for our digital citizens, and as time has gone on, they've only gotten more satisfying to build.
Although city-building games usually carry a steep learning curve and tons of content, beginners can dive into any option on our list and have a good time. The genre has expanded to include tons of big hitters, with exciting sequels like Cities Skylines 2 on the horizon. We have a mix of hardcore survival experiences like Frostpunk and minimalist builders like Islanders, so there's something for everyone.
Gaming The PlayStation 5 is looking to dominate the console landscape with its incredible library of games. Like the rest of the industry, Sony saw several major game delays in 2022 (and more this year), but has since dropped several new hit games like God of War Ragnarok, the Resident Evil 4 remake, and Alan Wake 2, among others. There are plenty of games out on PS5 for every kind of gamer.
And there are plenty more great titles on the way — don't forget to check out our list of the best upcoming PS5 games that will come out later this year.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
