Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming News Starfield: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more By Joseph Yaden and Jesse Lennox Close Bethesda is a studio that has found great success with its massive single-player RPG games like The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim and Fallout 4.
 While the company’s recent fumbles with games like Fallout 76 (and to a lesser extent, Fallout 4 ) have disappointed gamers, the studio is pushing forward and has some ambitious projects on the horizon. One such project is Starfield , a game that was first announced during Bethesda’s 2018 E3 presentation.
Release date Platforms Trailer Gameplay Preorder Following Microsoft’s acquisition of Bethesda , rumors about Starfield ‘s release have ramped up, and now that we’ve gotten a look at its gameplay, there’s a lot more we know about the project. Even after a delay of nearly a year, excitement for Starfield doesn’t seem to have waned. We’ve gathered as much information as we could to bring you everything we know about Bethesda’s upcoming sci-fi RPG Starfield.
Release date Bethesda Starfield will launch on September 6, 2023.
Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Marathon: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more All upcoming Switch games: 2023, 2024, and beyond Platforms Bethesda Starfield will release for Xbox Series X |S and PC.
At this point, it’s clear it won’t come to PlayStation or Nintendo since Bethesda is now a first-party Microsoft developer. Before the game’s E3 2021 showcase, GamesBeat’s Jeff Grubb said that Starfield will not appear on PlayStation, stating that it’s exclusive to Xbox. Microsoft confirmed this shortly thereafter.
Given the game’s scope, it makes sense it will only be available for current hardware. We also know Starfield will launch on Xbox Game Pass on day one, allowing even more players to enjoy it.
Trailer We got our first glimpse at Starfield during Bethesda’s E3 presentation in 2018, and aside from conveying tone, it didn’t reveal much. Bethesda was actually reluctant to reveal the game so early, but, as Howard explained during an interview with NoClip , fans had already suspected the team was working on Starfield following its trademark filing in 2013. The team wanted to give fans a roadmap for what to expect from Bethesda Game Studios going forward and decided to pull the cloak off — but maybe too early, as some fans have pointed out.
Fast forward to E3 2021, where Bethesda showed off even more of Starfield , along with its (at the time) release date. The two-minute trailer didn’t feature any gameplay, but it did convey the aesthetics and sort of what to expect from its tone and themes. It did have some gorgeous visuals — all of which were in-engine. In the trailer, a character can be seen gearing up a spacecraft for flight. We also got a look at a mysterious planet, a robot of some kind, and the inside of the spaceship.
Then, in mid-March 2022, Bethesda released a new extended trailer featuring more footage of Starfield , along with a discussion from the team. The extended trailer is nearly 15 minutes long, though no gameplay was shown yet. Aside from the footage, the developers focused on the game’s environments and characters. Bethesda is prioritized with keeping Starfield grounded, which is mentioned in the trailer.
Then, four years after its initial reveal, Bethesda finally showed off gameplay for Starfield at the Xbox and Bethesda Games Showcase 2022. The developer gave an extensive look, offering 15 minutes of new footage for the highly anticipated game. We’ll dive into more details about its gameplay below.
Gameplay Image used with permission by copyright holder Parts of Starfield were already playable as of E3 2018. That was five years ago, and the game is in even better shape now. “We know the game we’re making now, and one of the reasons we announced it is that it’s looking really awesome. We have [a] runway in front of us, and we know what’s happening,” Howard told GameSpot in 2018.
 When it comes to the gameplay and what to expect from Starfield in comparison to Bethesda’s other games, Howard concluded, “It has what you’d expect and more.” “It’s different, but if you sit down and play it, you would recognize it as something we made, if that makes sense? It has our DNA in it. It has things that we like,” Howard told Eurogamer in 2018.
https://imgur.com/a/GSWTkHn / Bethesda In 2020, leaked images supposedly from Starfield surfaced, giving us a possible glimpse at the game’s UI and characters. Now that the game has been shown off, it’s clear these leaks were the real deal. Another leak from Reddit (and relayed by GamesRadar ) suggests that each planet in Starfield is bigger than the entirety of Skyrim , though this has not been confirmed either.
In an interview with The Telegraph , Howard said, “The game is set about 300-plus years in our own future, and Constellation is this kind of last group of space explorers. It’s like NASA meets Indiana Jones meets the League of Extraordinary Gentlemen — a group of people that are still searching for answers.” “There are a lot of factions in the game, but that’s the main one that you’ll become a part of. It’s kind of like Skyrim in terms of the structure of the game, where you’re going to be who you want to be, and then [there are] different factions that you can join and really carve your own path.” We do know science and religion will play a part in Starfield , as stated by Howard. “We ask some big questions in the game — the kind that people have asked when they look to the sky, you know? ‘What’s out there? Why are we here? How do we get here?’ And we get into science, we get into religion.” Then, at the Xbox Showcase in 2022, Bethesda finally showed the game in action, and based on initial reactions, Starfield seems to be what players were expecting, which isn’t necessarily a bad thing. The gameplay video kicked off with a shot of a massive spaceship (which can be fully customized) landing on a planet. From there, the main character can be seen exploring, defeating enemies, gathering resources, and infiltrating an enemy base. The video showed off third- and first-person camera perspectives throughout, which is typical for Bethesda games.
While the fundamental gameplay loop will unfold as you might expect, much of the action looks to be a step up from previous Bethesda games, at least from a polished perspective. There’s a moment when the game goes full-on FPS, so we’re curious to see how that plays out with various weapons later on in the story.
Another talking point is the fact that Starfield will have over 1,000 planets to explore. These will each be filled with unique flora and fauna, and have dynamic lighting based on the type of star that the planet orbits. What you do on these planets will be generated procedurally, but mixed with some hand-crafted elements as well. Planets themselves will be built only when a player approaches them, and assemble locations on the surface on the fly so that every player will have a different experience. Of course, you’ll interact with NPCs, embark on quests, collect resources, and enter battles with intergalactic enemies. While this game shares a lot with No Man’s Sky , it seems Starfield will lean a bit more into action.
Starfield will also feature a robust character creator with a slew of skills to unlock. These are skills that resemble many others from previous Bethesda games but with a space-themed spin. You’ll also be able to craft various weapons, equipment, medicine, and even food — using the items you’ve found while exploring.
And you’ll need all the help you can get because many planets will contain deadly creatures that will surely put your skills to the test. While exploring other planets, you’ll be able to construct your own outposts, which aid in resource generation. You can even hire other NPCs to help run an outpost, making it easier to keep things going while you complete quests.
Ship battles will also be present in Starfield , giving you action not just on planets but in the skies above as well.
Beyond that, expect around 111,000 lines of dialogue (nearly twice as many as Skyrim ), factions, a persuasion system, lockpicking, and other familiar mechanics from past Bethesda games.
A full 45 minutes of gameplay and information was shown off in a special Starfield Direct in 2023 that finally gave players a true idea of what Starfield will be like in action.
We see more of the outpost building that can be constructed on any planet. The building process takes you into a top-down view for easier placement. After building up an outpost, you can then assign your crew to manage it to passively collect resources from the planet and even have them delivered to other locations for you.
We saw more ship customization, but what was new was the details on how ships can be obtained. Outside of simply purchasing them, you are also free to steal them. However you get them, piloting between planets will be completely manual, and not a simple fast-travel function (although that is also an option). If you do get into trouble in transit, you can either destroy the enemy ship attacking you or board them to take out the crew on board and take their craft for yourself.
Your player character will be completely customizable, as is expected from a Bethesda game. This time, the studio claims to have made the most advanced character creator yet, with 40 presets to begin from and tweak to make your ideal avatar. Aside from looks, you will also determine your character’s history. This will give your character some starting background that could be commented on, but also your first set of skills. You will be able to add on traits if you desire, which gives you one advantage and one disadvantage. Your normal skills will be improved by using said skills, just like in Skyrim.
Gunplay is going to be a major part of Starfield , and looks far more solid than Fallout.
There are a huge number of weapons, and each can be customized in various ways via a mod system.
The last thing shown was the most interesting and also most mysterious. We see the player use some sort of tech or magic power to essentially remove gravity or suspend a hallway full of enemies with a wave of the hand. What this power is, if there are more of them, and how you get it is all still as mysterious as the final frontier itself.
Preorder Bethesda Starfield is ready for launch and has preorders ready to claim.
 There will be several versions: Standard, Digital Premium, Premium Edition Upgrade, and Constellation Edition. If that sounds a little confusing, here’s a simple breakdown.
Standard Edition ($70) Base game Old Mars Skin Pack Laser Cutter Deep Mining Helmet Deep Mining Pack Digital Premium Edition ($100) Everything from the Standard Edition Five days early access Shattered Space Story Expansion (upon release) Constellation Skin Pack – Equinox Laser Rifle, Spacesuit, Helmet, and Boost Pack Access to Starfield Digital Artbook and Soundtrack Premium Edition Upgrade ($35) – Upgrades your Standard Edition preorder Everything from Digital Premium Edition Steelbook and Constellation Patch (Physical Only) Constellation Edition ($300) Everything from the Premium Edition (including physical items) Starfield Chronomakr Watch ad case Credit Stick with laser-etched game code Editors' Recommendations Hollow Knight: Silksong: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more GTA 6: release date speculation, trailer, news, rumors, and more All upcoming Xbox Series X games: 2023, 2024 and beyond RoboCop: Rogue City: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more Sims 4 cheats: all cheat codes for PC, Xbox, PS4, PS5, and more Microsoft Tech News Gaming In late 2021, indie developer Eric Barone (commonly known as ConcernedApe online), famed for single-handedly creating the magical Stardew Valley, officially announced that he was developing an all-new game. That game is called Haunted Chocolatier, and it looks like a whole other world of fun, casual simulation where you find out the secret desires of every single member of your community.
Details are still limited -- “I just like working in secret,” ConcernedApe reported in his last official progress update -- but don’t worry, plenty of info has already dropped, and we’ll keep you updated about every detail so you know what’s going on.
Release date Gaming Bethesda just released Update 1.7.36 for Starfield, and it officially added a highly requested feature: field-of-view (FOV) sliders.
Even though Starfield is a game that can be entirely played from a first-person perspective, it did not have this feature at release. Fans had to previously resort to mods to add this functionality to the game. Bethesda did promise it'd add FOV sliders to the game shortly after it launched, though, and now this feature has finally arrived. By going into the Accessibility tab of the Settings menu, players can adjust the FOV of both the first and third-person cameras on both console and PC.
This update does bring some other improvements as well, like fixing a progression-blocking issue in the Echoes of the Past quest and improving stability and performance. In particular, Bethesda claimed stability with Intel Arc GPUs will now be better for PC players. For most players, though, the FOV slider is the most important new feature included in this update.
Starfield isn't the only Bethesda game to get a notable update this month. Last week, Redfall finally received a patch that overhauled the game's encounters, tweaked its stealth system, and added a 60 fps Performance Mode. While this Starfield update isn't as large or monumental as that one, it does show Bethesda's commitment to improving Starfield and adding heavily requested features. Hopefully, updates that add things like Nvidia DLSS support, an HDR calibration menu, ultrawide monitor support, and an eat button for food aren't too far off.
Starfield is available now for PC and Xbox Series X/S.
Gaming The long-anticipated Bethesda RPG Starfield has finally been released and the reviews from players are looking great so far. Featuring the publisher's first new world in 25 years, Starfield is centered around endless space exploration — quite a different direction than Fallout's postapocalyptic America or The Elder Scroll's fantasy landscapes. While the game doesn't necessarily allow you to get lost in space like most players initially were looking forward to, it does contain plenty of excellent sci-fi standbys like multiverse theories, a vast pool of spaceships to pilot through galaxies, and some far-out futuristic weaponry.
Starfield launched on the Xbox Series X and PC (and Xbox One, sort of), but hasn't made its way to the PlayStation 5. While there are plenty of great games on PS5, some Sony gamers are still eagerly waiting for their chance to jump into the world of Starfield.
Will Starfield come to PS5? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
