Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? PlayStation 5 DualSense Edge review: a true pro PS5 controller, for a price By Giovanni Colantonio Close $200.00 Strong build quality Sturdy carrying case Fantastic back buttons Versatile trigger locks Innovative profile swapping High price Short battery life Parts feel lacking for price There’s a dirty secret about PS5 controllers : No matter how great a third-party one is, a Sony-developed one is always going to be best-in-class. That’s not because the company produces better hardware than PowerA, Victrix, or Scuf; it’s simply because Sony holds the patents for the DualSense’s signature features. No matter how innovative another controller is, you’ll only get haptic feedback and adaptive triggers on an official Sony gamepad.
Build quality The bells and whistles Backend customization That puts the new DualSense Edge at an inherent — and perhaps unfair — advantage. On paper, Sony’s new “pro” controller is more flawed than a lot of competitors that beat it to the punch. It’s expensive, has a short battery life, and comes with a limited set of swappable parts. On all of those points, it pales in comparison to, say, Victrix’s excellent Pro BFG.
 And yet, it’s sort of unmatched by default if you want your PS5 controller to function like a PS5 controller.
The best PS5 controllers for 2023 The PS5 games with the best graphics The best PS5 games for 2023 Though I have some mixed feelings about it, the DualSense Edge does offer PlayStation fans something the PS5 has been lacking since launch. It’s a robust controller that’s fun to tinker with and includes some of the best back buttons I’ve used on a gamepad. It sports enough useful bells and whistles that it’ll likely replace my standard DualSense, though its price tag makes it a hard sell considering that the PS5’s regular controller is already one of the best gamepads out there on its own.
Build quality At first glance, the DualSense Edge looks almost identical to a regular DualSense … and that’s a good thing. Sony’s standard PS5 controller sports an “if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it” design and the Edge takes that device. In terms of aesthetic difference, it swaps the D-pad and face buttons from white to black. The touchpad gets a slight makeover here, with a black textured surface. The only major difference on the front is the inclusion of two function buttons, which are unobtrusively placed below each joystick.
There’s a lot that impresses me about the overall build quality here … The backside brings some extra changes, though the Edge is careful not to clutter it. There are two magnetic slots for attachable back buttons, a set of trigger locks, and a small release button used to pop off the front faceplate. I appreciate that the Edge keeps its look simple. With a pro controller filled with features, there can be a tendency to overdesign and create an eyesore. Instead, the Edge feels like something I could hand to someone who’s never used one without triggering a lot of confused glances.
The Edge comes bundled with a black and white carrying case that neatly holds all of its attachments. A mesh pouch houses a wired cable, while a bottom compartment has slots for its extra joysticks and back buttons. As a nice extra touch, the inside of the case features a QR code that takes users to an FAQ page when scanned, acting as a digital manual. That packaging makes it safe and easy to transport around, which is a must for a $200 controller.
Image used with permission by copyright holder There’s a lot that impresses me about the overall build quality here, but there is one major caveat: battery life. The DualSense Edge pales in comparison to the standard DualSense when it comes to battery, based on our testing. We’ve gotten around six hours out of a single charge, which is a few hours shy of how long my DualSense lasts. Though I understand its extra perks might demand some power, it’s hard to stomach such a notable step down in what’s supposed to be a “pro” model.
Granted, most people don’t play a game for more than six hours straight and a lengthy cable makes it easy to play from the couch when it needs a charge. Still, users shouldn’t be making trade-offs with a piece of tech that’s more than double the price of what came bundled with the console. The DualSense Edge should feel like a step up in every way and this is one key area where it notably doesn’t.
The bells and whistles The main attraction here is the extra level of customization the DualSense Edge provides. For those who love to tweak their settings, there’s a lot to experiment with here. For instance, I can change how far down each trigger needs to be pressed with a set of locks. Each trigger has three settings, much like the Xbox Elite Series 2 , and I’ve already gotten some good use out of them. In Forspoken, I found that moving to the middle setting made it much easier to fling magical spells, which could get tiring after repeated full presses.
I can’t help but feel like Sony is a little too precious with its DualSense design here … I’m most enamored with Sony’s approach to back buttons here. The package comes with two sets of back buttons: levers and half domes. Both easily slot in and out of the controller via magnetic slots, making them easy to install. More impressive is that I never feel like they’re in danger of accidentally falling out, despite the fact that all I need to do is pull to remove them. Both back button designs are unobtrusive and feel perfectly placed — something that lots of controllers struggle to nail — but I’m especially impressed with the half-dome buttons. They perfectly sit under my middle fingers and press in with a soft, satisfying click. Even when I’m not using them, they act as a natural resting spot for my fingers. The levers feel just as natural to use, but I’d love to see this style of back button to become standard for Sony controllers going forward.
The customization potential gets a little lacking from there. The only other parts included are four dome joystick caps that can replace the two standard ones that come with the controller. There’s a “high” and “low” version of each, though the height difference between them isn’t too noticeable. Installing them can be a bit tricky at first too, as joystick caps don’t simply pop off. To replace them, you need to slide a “release” button on the back of the controller to pop off its front faceplate. If you don’t have nails, this is a bit of a pain to pull off. I still can’t get it right without some fiddling.
Sony Once the faceplate is off, you need to lift a metal level to release the stick module, allowing you to pop a cap on and off. Doing so disconnects the controller from the PS5, though, so it’s a bit of a pain to naturally pull this off in game if, say, you want to experiment with a different stick height mid Call of Duty match.
 I’ve gotten the hang of it and can swap a stick quickly, but it’s a bit more of a hassle than other similar controllers I’ve used.
That’s about all you can play around with in terms of hardware customization, which feels lacking when I look at other controllers I have sitting around. For instance, the Edge only has two back buttons whereas controllers like the Elite Series 2 have four. The Pro BFG comes with two fewer joystick caps, but it does include a much taller “sniper stick” as well as a set of hexagonal stick gates that give me a lot of mix-and-match potential. Here, I simply have the option to map two extra buttons and make a more subtle change to my stick layout. Personally, I prefer the standard caps that come with the DualSense and haven’t felt the urge to replace them after testing, but everyone’s mileage will vary there.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I can’t help but feel like Sony is a little too precious with its DualSense design here, clashing with the idea of a high-level controller built to give players more agency. For example, several gamepads at this price range come with different D-pad styles that can be swapped in and out. The Pro BFG includes a standard D-pad, an eight-directional one, and even its own original design. That’s not the case here, as Sony sticks to its four-directional face button layout. I’m just left wondering if that’s for a practical reason or if Sony is perhaps a little too protective over the DualSense’s aesthetic.
This might all sound like a nitpick, but once again, we’re talking about a controller that retails for the price of a Nintendo Switch Lite.
 If it sounds like my expectations are high, it’s because the bar for a product like this is. I just don’t feel like I have too much to play with on the front end, which is part of the appeal of something like this. The excellent back buttons do make this a worthwhile investment for those who swear by them, but I do feel like most players could stick with the already premium-feeling DualSense and not be missing too much.
Backend customization Though I’m a little let down by the parts included, the DualSense Edge shines when it comes to its backend customization. When pairing one to a PS5, you’ll be able to alter a suite of functions via the console. That gets as specific as tooling around with trigger and stick deadzone, the kind of high-level tweaks that’ll really appeal to the kind of users who actually need something like this.
Its best feature, though, comes in the form of its button profiles. Via the settings menu, users can change every single button on their controller and save it to a profile. Want to make a few profiles featuring different back button mappings? Create as many as you want. Want to throw your face buttons on your triggers and bumpers? Weird, but go ahead! I mapped L3 to a back button, for instance, while playing One Piece Odyssey so I didn’t have to press a stick to toggle the game’s auto-run function. Once mapped, players can store up to four profiles on the gamepad which can be seamlessly triggered by holding down a function button and pressing a face button.
The back buttons and profiles are enough to notably improve my experience in certain games.
Here’s an example of how smooth that all is in practice. I created two separate profiles while playing Forspoken. One was my combat layout, which mapped a bumper to each back button. L1 and R1 open up Frey’s radial spell menu in the game, which is usually a pain, but felt much more natural on the half domes. I created another exploration-focused profile though, which maps the parkour and item pick-up buttons to the back instead. That would allow me to run more freely, focusing on my stick movements. When I run into a pack of enemies while exploring, I simply press function and circle to instantly swap to my attack setup. When I’m done, I just as easily press function and X to swap back.
That level of control is ultimately what wins me over with the DualSense Edge, despite its flaws. A good pro controller is all about offering players flexibility and that’s exactly what I feel when I flip between profiles on the fly. While I’d love to tinker with more buttons and parts, the reality is that the basic DualSense design is already top of its class; there’s not much I’d want to change about it even if I could. The back buttons and profiles are enough to notably improve my experience in certain games.
Image used with permission by copyright holder That feeling is most certainly a luxury though, and one that’s hard to fully justify at $200. If the Edge retailed for $50 less, it would be a no-brainer purchase for anyone who uses their PS5 weekly. It’s just tough to broadly recommend when it’s a step down in battery life and when its frontend customization is outclassed by cheaper, more innovative third-party models.
Though even after all of those criticisms, I return to my first thought: you cannot get adaptive triggers or haptic feedback on any of those controllers. The DualSense Edge is, in some ways, the only pro PS5 controller. If it doesn’t sound worth the price, it probably isn’t for you. But if you’re itching for an Elite Series 2 equivalent on PS5 , this stands uncontested among a landscape of third-party gamepads forced to make up for lost features with niche enhancements.
Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music The best PS5 exclusives The new 1TB PS5 has more usable storage space than the Xbox Series X The best games on PlayStation Plus, Extra, and Premium All upcoming PS5 games: 2023, 2024, and beyond Game Reviews Product Reviews Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Gaming Sony consoles have always gotten multiple versions and editions ever since the original PlayStation 1. As technology becomes cheaper and more advanced, refreshed models that are both smaller and less expensive to produce typically come out a couple of years into a console's life cycle, and we have now hit that point for the PS5. The PS5 slim, as it is being referred to, is a smaller version of the launch models, and will eventually become the standard unit available to consumers once the stock of existing PS5s runs out. However, is this version worth getting if you're an existing owner, or is it only for new purchasers? There's also the question about which of the two versions to buy. To answer all these questions, let's compare the PS5 slim to the OG PS5.
Specs Let's start with the most important part, which is whether or not there's more power under the hood of the PS5 slim compared to the launch models. No, the PS5 slim is not in any way more powerful than an existing PS5. This is not a PS5 Pro, which is currently just a rumor. Games will not look, run, or play any better or worse on either version. The only difference in terms of specs is that the slim versions have slightly more storage space at 1 TB compared to 825GB, which is just a small 175GB upgrade. There's nothing here that makes it worth buying a new system when you can expand the storage of your console yourself.
Size Obviously, a slim model would mean that this new version would be smaller than the frankly comically large launch version. While that's true, it isn't a huge reduction in size. The PS5 Slim disc version weighs 3.2 kilograms (18% less that the original PS5) while the discless version weighs 2.6kg (24% less), and both are 30% smaller by volume.
Versions Once again, you will have the option to choose between an all-digital and standard version of the PS5 Slim. However, unlike the original discless PS5, the new version will give you the option to add a disc drive later on if you purchase a separate detachable drive.
Price The current PS5 models are priced at $400 and $500 for the digital and standard versions, respectively. While the PS5 slim standard version that includes the disc drive will remain at $500, the discless version will get a price increase to $450. This price increase had already been seen in other territories outside the U.S., but will now be introduced here once these new versions launch. It is also worth mentioning that the detachable disc drive you can get to upgrade your discless version will cost $80, meaning you would spend more to buy the digital version and add the drive than you would by simply buying the version with the drive already included.
Gaming PS Plus Premium is adding a new feature next month that will allow subscribers to cloud stream select PlayStation 5 games. The initial list includes heavy hitters like Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales and Horizon Forbidden West. Sony is targeting an October 30 launch in North America.
Cloud streaming has been one of the primary selling points of PS Plus since its relaunch last year. Subscribers can use the feature to access several games in the service's catalog, including PlayStation 3 games. The new feature will now extend that technology to newer PS5 releases, with Sony saying it plans to make "hundreds" of games streamable.
Gaming The newly redesigned PlayStation 5 is getting its own set of console covers sometime next year. Sony confirms to Digital Trends that several faceplate colors are slated to launch in 2024 but covers for the old PS5 models will not be compatible with the new systems.
One of the PS5's most unique features is its removable faceplates, which allow players to customize their console with new colors and designs. The new PS5 models will evolve that idea with a four-cover panel design that gives the system a slightly different look. Sony is already planning to make those customizable in the near future, according to a statement sent to Digital Trends.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
