Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Guides Everything you need to know about the new PlayStation Plus By Jesse Lennox Close After months of rumors, Sony has released a blog post finally confirming what everyone suspected was true: PlayStation Now is going away, and a new tiered structure is coming to PlayStation Plus.
What is PlayStation Plus Essential? What is PlayStation Plus Extra? What is PlayStation Plus Premium? The new strategy breaks up the former subscription plan into three different tiers with their own offerings and pricing that are incorporated into the Plus branding. Starting in June, PlayStation users will have three options for their subscription models to choose from: Essential, Extra, and the top tier called Premium. That structure was teased in various rumors , but Sony has now officially confirmed all those details and more.
There are still a few points left vague, such as how future titles will be added to each tier. This can be extra confusing to casual players and even more so for those who are already subscribed to one or both existing services. To clear up any confusion, here’s everything you need to know about the new PlayStation Plus Essential, Extra, and Premium tiers.
The best games on PlayStation Plus, Extra, and Premium PlayStation boss Jim Ryan is stepping down, with successor yet to be named Best PlayStation deals: PS5, controllers, headsets on sale What is PlayStation Plus Essential? Image used with permission by copyright holder The first tier of the new subscription model is basically just what your normal PlayStation Plus subscription is as it exists today. That includes two monthly games for download, extra discounts in the store, cloud storage, and online multiplayer. This tier will also cost you the same, so if none of this new stuff interests you and you just want to keep being a standard Plus subscriber, you will be rolled into this new tier with no changes whatsoever except for the name. Here’s the pricing structure if you need a refresher.
United States $9.99 monthly/$24.99 quarterly/$59.99 yearly Europe €8.99 monthly/€24.99 quarterly/€59.99 yearly United Kingdom £6.99 monthly/£19.99 quarterly/£49.99 yearly Japan ¥850 monthly/¥2,150 quarterly/¥5,143 yearly What is PlayStation Plus Extra? PlayStation Plus Extra is where features pulled from PlayStation Now begin to come into play. With this level, you not only get everything from the PlayStation Plus Essential level but also a catalog of around 400 PS4 and PS5 games available to download. This will include both first-party titles as well as third-party games, likely starting with the catalog that already exists on Now and perhaps the PlayStation Plus Collection. A full list hasn’t been revealed yet, nor if the cadence of games being added monthly will continue, but Sony did say that Death Stranding , God of War , Marvel’s Spider-Man , Marvel’s Spider-Man: Miles Morales , Mortal Kombat 11 , and Returnal will be there at the start.
PlayStation Plus Extra will cost you, as you could probably guess, a bit extra over the Essential level. Here’s the pricing structure for the different regions: United States $14.99 monthly/$39.99 quarterly/$99.99 yearly Europe €13.99 monthly/€39.99 quarterly/€99.99 yearly United Kingdom £10.99 monthly/£31.99 quarterly/£83.99 yearly Japan ¥1,300 monthly/¥3,600 quarterly/¥8,600 yearly In terms of U.S. prices, that would make this tier cost $40 more than the Essential tier if purchased annually.
What is PlayStation Plus Premium? For the last (and most expensive) level, we have PlayStation Plus Premium. This one is a bit more complicated than the rest, but in short, it’s an expanded version of having both PlayStation Plus and Now as they exist today. With this level, you get everything from both lower tiers plus around 340 more titles from the PS1, PS2, PS3, and PSP libraries. You also get the ability to stream PS3 games, the option to stream or download PS1, PS2, and PSP games, and an extra option to stream PS4 games in addition to just downloading them. They can all be streamed to your PS4, PS5, or even PC. However, streaming any of these games is only available in regions where PlayStation Now is currently offered.
The next major perk is the availability of “time-limited game trials” that will let you play a portion of a game before purchasing it. What games will offer these trials, as well as how long these trials will last, was not detailed.
The pricing structure for each region looks like this: United States: $17.99 monthly, $49.99 quarterly, $119.99 yearly Europe: €16.99 monthly, €49.99 quarterly, €119.99 yearly United Kingdom: £13.49 monthly, £39.99 quarterly, £99.99 yearly Japan: ¥1,550 monthly, ¥4,300 quarterly, ¥10,250 yearly This tier is just $20 more than the Extra tier annually and would be the same yearly price if you currently subscribed to both PlayStation Plus and PlayStation Now. If you already have a PS Now subscription, you will automatically be placed in the Premium tier at no additional cost at launch.
The rollout of this service is going to be done region by region, beginning in June with Asian markets, then North America and Europe, and then the rest of the world with a goal of a full transition by the middle of 2022. Sony’s target dates for launching the service in each region are as follows: Asian markets (excluding Japan): Targeting May 23, 2022 Japan: Targeting June 1, 2022 Americas: Targeting June 13, 2022 Europe: Targeting June 22, 2022 Editors' Recommendations PS Plus is getting an underrated RPG cult classic this month PS5 slim vs. PS5: everything you need to know about the new PS5 model PS Plus adds lots of great RPGs in September, but loses a former PS5 exclusive Best PlayStation Plus Deals: Save on Essential, Plus and Premium PlayStation Portal: release date, price, specs, and more Sony Sony PlayStation Gaming Sony confirmed that 12-month subscriptions for PlayStation Plus Essential, Extra, and Premium will all see price increases alongside the reveal of September's new Essential games on the PlayStation Blog.
Starting on September 6, 12 months of PS Plus Essential goes up in price from $60 to $80, PS Plus Extra's yearly price increases from $100 to $135, and an annual subscription to PS Plus Premium will rise from $120 to $160.
Sony says it needs to increase the price of all three versions of PlayStation Plus "to continue bringing high-quality games and value-added benefits to your PlayStation Plus subscription service" and that buying a 12-month subscription is still cheaper than subscribing to any of the shorter-term plans over the same period of time. The price hikes comes just a couple of months after Microsoft raised the price of Xbox Game Pass.
When it comes to the games PS Plus Essential subscribers can expect this month, first up is Saints Row, a 2022 reboot of an open-world crime franchise that garnered mixed reviews upon its release. Next is Generation Zero, an open-world sci-fi shooter where players fight evil machines. Finally, those who have not already purchased a version of the MMO Black Desert on PS4 can redeem Black Desert - Traveler Edition, which comes with some additional items; if you have bought a version of Black Desert, you can just redeem the Traveler Item Pack.
Gaming Sony has unveiled the price for its upcoming cloud gaming handheld, as well as an official name for the device: PlayStation Portal. However, one significant caveat to its functionality might sour people's interest in the handheld: It only supports PS4 and PS5 native games that the owner purchased.
PlayStation VR2 games can't be streamed to PlayStation Portal, which does make sense. More bafflingly, though, is the fact that the PlayStation Blog post states that "games that are streamed through PlayStation Plus Premium’s cloud streaming are not supported." That means you shouldn't pick up PlayStation Portal expecting to stream some PS3 and PS4 games available through PlayStation Plus Premium to the device. That's certainly an odd omission when it's currently PlayStation's most notable cloud gaming effort.
Although Microsoft is more closely associated with cloud gaming, Sony beat it to releasing a dedicated cloud gaming device. PlayStation Portal was first teased as Project Q during May's PlayStation showcase, but now, a PlayStation Blog post more clearly explains what we can actually expect from the handheld. Most importantly, we learned that PlayStation Portal will cost $200, which puts it underneath the cost of a Nintendo Switch, Xbox Series S, and other cloud gaming devices like the Logitech G Cloud Handheld.
As for what you're getting for that price tag, it's essentially a decent screen attached to two halves of a DualSense controller. The controllers on each side share all the functionality of the DualSense, including things like haptic feedback and adaptive triggers. In-between is an 8-inch LCD screen that streams games over Wi-Fi at up to a 1080p resolution and 60 frames per second. All in all, that's fairly solid for a cloud gaming handheld that is this cheap.
Sony confirmed that the PlayStation Portal will have a 3.5mm audio jack, but also used the same blog post to unveil two new wireless audio options. There's the Pulse Elite wireless headset that features a retractable boom mic and a charging hanger and Pulse Explore wireless earbuds that offer similar audio quality in earbud form.
None of these products are available for preorder or have a specific release date just yet, but they are all expected to launch before the end of the year.
Gaming We live in an era where basically every device in our homes can connect to the internet in some way, and most of them can provide in-depth searching through apps and web browsers. The previous generation of consoles was included in this modern experience, and even the Xbox Series X features full-fledged web browsing – but for those who have purchased a PlayStation 5, the situation is a little bit more complicated.
Does the PS5 have a web browser? The PS5 does not have a traditional web browser in the way that the PS4 did, meaning users can't quickly pull up websites and surf the net with ease. This is no doubt a frustrating omission for those used to accessing the web from their previous consoles, and it's honestly a bit strange that Sony chose to leave out such a useful feature. However, while you may not be able to pull up a browser from your main menu, there is technically a workaround to gain access to an extremely limited web browser by finagling with the Twitter linking function in your settings, but it's an awful lot of trouble to go through for something that doesn't really function in a way that users can actually benefit from.
Unfortunately, Sony doesn't seem to want to add an official web browser app to the PS5, as the company has expressed on various occasions that it doesn't feel that such functionality is important for gaming consoles. So, if you're in the PlayStation ecosystem, it appears that your web browsing will have to continue exclusively on your old PS4. It's a bummer, but hey, maybe you could try getting one of those refrigerators with web functionality.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
