Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? God of War Ragnarok review: hellacious sequel’s best moments are its quietest By Giovanni Colantonio Close $69.99 Kratos' best characterization yet Fantastic combat More customization options Rewarding exploration Uneven story RPG systems still don't click Technically stagnant About 25 hours into God of War Ragnarok , I experienced the thunderous action game’s first real moment of quiet. Returning from a long excursion to Svartalfheim with his way-too-chatty companions, Kratos walks into his bedroom and sits in silence as he reflects on his increasingly strained relationship with his son, Atreus. His normally unshakable stoicism cracks just enough to let a rare moment of vulnerability shine through, as you can almost catch a tear about to roll down his cracked face before he retreats to sleep – the one place where he can heal.
Video review Ragnarok is coming The ultimate action game Bigger, not better It’s both the best and most understated moment in a game that loves to lay it on thick.
The best PS5 controllers for 2023 The new 1TB PS5 has more usable storage space than the Xbox Series X PS5 slim vs. PS5: everything you need to know about the new PS5 model The PlayStation exclusive action adventure is an undoubtedly impressive work, but Kratos does battle with a familiar foe here: sequel syndrome. In trying to one-up 2018’s phenomenal and self-reflexive God of War reboot , developer Santa Monica Studio took a “more is more” approach to development. There are more characters, more exploration, more puzzles, more quips — you name it. If there’s something you loved (or didn’t) about Kratos’ last outing, you can bet you’ll see twice as much of it here.
God of War Ragnarok is much bigger than its predecessor, though not inherently better. It’s more reminiscent of the jump between the original God of War in 2005 and God of War 2 , offering a largely similar experience down to its plot beats. That larger scope makes for a messier story that loses some of the previous game’s intimacy, but the trade-off is even sharper combat that further establishes the franchise as the God of action games.
Video review Ragnarok is coming God of War Ragnarok is more of a “part two” than a sequel. It continues the story of reformed God-killer Kratos and his son Atreus, which was left feeling a little unfinished in 2018 after the duo inadvertently ushered in an early Fimbulwinter. The tale picks up three years later here, with the long winter finally coming to an end … which means that the cataclysmic Ragnarok isn’t far behind according to prophecy.
The story is at its best when it quiets down to focus on Kratos and Atreus’ relationship.
As you can probably imagine from that description, the sequel takes some much grander narrative swings than its predecessor. While the last installment was a refreshingly contained drama about Kratos’ strained relationship with his son, Ragnarok is more of a sprawling epic that’s more broadly focused on its retelling of Norse mythology. For instance, its cast of characters significantly expands with more imposing Gods, like Thor and Odin, and wise-talking sidekicks that quip like they’re auditioning for a superhero movie (the returning Mimir goes from funny to grating in no time flat here).
While the story is entertaining enough as a mythological romp, it’s a bit of a step down both in the context of Kratos’ previous adventure and on its own merits. 2018’s God of War was a groundbreaking moment for video game narratives when it launched largely because it was a game in conversation with its own past. It reexamined the hyper-violent series and deftly spun them into a moving story about a grieving father who’s desperate to make sure his child doesn’t inherit his mistakes. It’s an intimate game that keeps the focus (literally, thanks to its one-shot camera trick) on a handful of well-developed characters.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Ragnarok follows up on those ideas, albeit in a much less focused or introspective manner. Potentially thoughtful takeaways about parenting compete for time with vague musings about the nature of war and teenage tropes. There’s little room for subtlety as chatty characters tend to brain-dump their entire emotional state on one another to fill every moment of silence during exploration. The general pacing suffers from the scope increase, too, with the expanded cast creating more narrative side-diversions that can interrupt the core story for hours at a time. It feels like less of a game and more of a TV show blueprint, as if Sony anticipated that the property would need more characters if it wanted to turn it into a multimedia juggernaut like The Last of Us.
Unsurprisingly, the story is at its best when it quiets down to focus on Kratos and Atreus’ relationship. Amid all the apocalyptic noise, there’s a beautiful story here about a father learning to trust his son and cherish the time he has left with him before he’s whisked away by adulthood. Series veteran Christopher Judge sells those tender moments with a tremendous performance as Kratos, playing the most vulnerable (and most deadpan hilarious) version of the character we’ve seen to date.
Image used with permission by copyright holder There’s a touching moment that sticks with me as I reflect on the messy adventure. During a trip to Valheim, the animal-loving Atreus insists that Kratos stop to free a jellyfish imprisoned in the sand. The two traverse through a long dungeon, working together to get the creature out. At the end, Atreus wonders why Kratos would halt his world-saving quest for an unnecessary rescue mission. The answer is simpler than Atreus thinks: Kratos just wants to spend as much time as he can with his son with the time they have left together, come death or cataclysm. By the end of my journey, I wished I could have had more of those moments with them, too.
The ultimate action game Though its approach to narrative may split fans, Ragnarok ’s combat is undeniably spectacular. Building off the foundation of the previous game , the sequel keeps everything that worked intact but turns the dials just enough to make battles feel new. For one, Kratos can use both his satisfyingly heavy Leviathan Axe and his speedy Blades of Chaos (which were a late-game addition in 2018) right from the jump this time. That makes combat more varied upfront, as I could seamlessly switch between tools depending on whether I needed to take out a bunch of foes quickly or focus my strength on one.
With enough tinkering, I was able to create my ideal action game out of my favorite bits and pieces of the genre.
The big change here is an increased emphasis on elemental attacks. Holding the triangle button freezes Kratos’ axe, while rapidly pressing it sets his blades on fire. Both give Kratos access to even more attacks, widening out his already impressive move set via skill trees. There’s a much better incentive to actually use those attacks, too. Perform them enough times and players can add a modifier to an individual move, boosting its damage, stun, and more. That adds a new layer of customization to the mix that lets players personalize an otherwise straightforward set of moves.
That system goes hand in hand with the RPG framework introduced in 2018, which remains a little hit-and-miss here. Stat increases still feel negligible, making the “numbers go up” equipment chase feel more tiring than satisfying. However, gear perks shine more this time. By the end of the game, I was wearing clothing that would allow me to heal by finishing enemies like Doom and freeze time on successful dodge rolls like Bayonetta.
 With enough tinkering, I was able to create my ideal action game out of my favorite bits and pieces of the genre.
I especially appreciate that Ragnarok gives me more opportunities to put my build to the test. In the previous game, the only true skill check came from blisteringly tough Valkyrie fights that drew Dark Souls comparisons. A variation of those returns here, but there are more memorable monsters beyond that, which pushed me to utilize every tool in my arsenal. One fight against a massive beast locked in a treasure vault pushed me to master my otherwise ignored parrying skills, which deepened my approach to battle for the rest of my journey.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Companions play a much bigger role in this game, too. Atreus is particularly more instrumental in battle, which adds some welcome variety to the mix. And while I won’t go into specifics on what role he plays, there’s a reason we spend so much time with Atreus in the sequel: Ragnarok ’s story is ultimately about him more than Kratos. Even though we spend significantly more time with his dad, this is a coming-of-age story about a teenager searching for his own identity – something that was teased by the previous game’s surprising final twist. I suspect that decision might be polarizing for some fans, especially since actor Sunny Suljic can’t match up to Judge’s tour-de-force Kratos (the young Suljic’s real voice was maturing through production). However, it’s the one area where Santa Monica Studio really feels like it’s confident enough to break out of its comfort zone and add something new to a sequel that otherwise plays it safe.
Bigger, not better Right from one of the game’s opening sequences, it’s clear that Santa Monica Studio is sticking closer to a formula this time around. The 2018 game’s most memorable narrative beats are echoed here in a manner that feels a little calculated, as if working from a slide deck of what fans responded well to and trying to double down. In fairness, this is a critique you could raise against just about any game sequel (see the excellent Horizon Forbidden West ) and it’s not something that negatively impacts the game; it just isn’t exactly addictive either.
It’s not better. It’s not worse. It’s just more.
Take exploration, for instance.
God of War (2018) was praised for its smaller open-world area, the Lake of the Nines, which allowed Kratos and Atreus to sail around in search of substantial side-quests. That idea is repeated here in multiple open spaces across the nine realms that follow the same general format. What worked in 2018 still very much works here. Exploration is extremely rewarding thanks to massive spaces that are filled with valuable treasure and clever environmental puzzles (though companions do not trust that you know how to solve them, judging by their constant hints). Side-quests are still a highlight, too, as some of the best narrative moments come from entirely optional content. One of the earliest side-missions has Kratos freeing a trapped whale whose body turns into its own puzzle island, a standout quest that cleverly reflects Kratos’ own insecurities.
I couldn’t help but feel like moments tended to blur together this time, though. The glut of puzzles, the increase in collectibles, the excess of small talk while riding around between locations — little of it sticks with me in the same way that my comparatively compact trip around the Lake of the Nines still does to this day. Sure, it’s all fun, but overexposure makes individual moments stand out less in the grander realm-jumping adventure. It’s not better. It’s not worse. It’s just more.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It doesn’t help that Ragnarok doesn’t feel like as much of an improvement on the technical side either. Despite running on PS5 , this very much feels like a PS4 game down to the way it hides loading with a clever realm travel trick. Ultimately, it’s not something that bothers me.
Ragnarok is inseparable from its predecessor and it’s only fair that fans who haven’t upgraded yet get to actually see an incomplete story through to its end. But it does add to the feeling of stagnation, further binding it to the great, but safe God of War 2.
If I sound like Kratos being too hard on his son here, it’s because I can see what this series is capable of. Santa Monica Studio beautifully reinvented the franchise in 2018 with a bold game that stands among the best of its generation. For all my critiques, God of War Ragnarok is still miles ahead of its peers thanks to its unmatched action, awe-inspiring landscapes, and emotional storytelling. I wanted more from the sequel, as I expect many fans will, but I still have a lot to learn from Kratos in that regard. Perhaps I need to stop being so anxious for it to mature and instead appreciate it for what it is, growing pains and all.
God of War Ragnarok was reviewed on PS5.
Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music The best PS5 exclusives The best PS5 games for 2023 PS Plus members can cloud stream PS5 games in 4K later this month New PS5 models are getting their own console covers, but old ones aren’t compatible Action Games Game Reviews Product Reviews Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Gaming If you don't own the PlayStation 5 yet, or if you're planning to give it as a gift to a loved one, then you've come to the right place because we've rounded up the best PS5 deals. You can enjoy discounts not just on Sony's latest-generation video game console, but also on bundles that pair it with games and accessories. There's still a lot of demand for the PS5 though, so don't be surprised if these offers get sold out quickly. If you don't want to miss out, you'll have to decide on what to purchase from these bargains as soon as you can.
Refurbished PlayStation 5 Digital Edition -- $380, was $399 This is probably the cheapest price that you can pay for the PlayStation 5 -- getting a refurbished digital version of the console, which skips the disc drive and relies on online downloads. It's not brand new, but it's guaranteed to be in fine working condition so you'll be able to play the best PS5 games after installing them from the PlayStation Store or through a PlayStation Plus subscription.
Gaming Sony Interactive Entertainment President and CEO Jim Ryan is retiring after 30 years. The PlayStation boss will formally leave his role in March 2024 with a successor yet to be named.
Jim Ryan has been working with PlayStation since 1994 when he joined Sony Interactive Entertainment Europe. Since then, he's become the key figurehead for the PlayStation brand, similar to Phil Spencer's role within Xbox. His most recent success has come from the launch of the PlayStation 5, which has already surpassed a 40 million unit milestone. Today, Sony announced that Ryan plans to retire from the role.
Gaming There's no shortage of discounts for PlayStation 5 games among retailers, with some of the offers involving our favorite PS5 games. It may look like a daunting task to narrow down your choice for your next PS5 game purchase, but we're here to help you out. We've rounded up some of the best PS5 game deals, and if you see a deal that you like, you have to click that Buy Now button immediately as some of these discounts won't last long. All of the games below appear on our list of the best PS5 games for 2023.
Deathloop — $25, was $60 If you're looking for a shooter game that blurs the line between single player and multiplayer, try out Deathloop, created by the same studio that made Dishonored. Played from a main story perspective, it could almost feel like a pure assassin murder simulator, with many targets to find. Of course, there would still be a big catch thrown into the mayhem: somebody is out there trying to kill you. And that's where multiplayer comes in! Invade others' games and try to end their day before they knock out their target or, if you allow multiplayer, add a whole new layer of difficulty to the campaign playthrough.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
