Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Horizon Forbidden West review: Rise of the machines By Giovanni Colantonio Close $59.99 Improved combat Excellent new machines High-effort side activities Stunning world design Better traversal tools Dry dialogue Frustrating swimming Crashes and visual bugs Midway through Horizon Forbidden West , Aloy discovers a video from the old world. A holographic figure stands in front of the White House and delivers a hopeful rallying cry for a country at war. “True courage means facing [our] fears with conviction instead of cynicism,” the long-dead speaker firmly declares. It’s a line that sums up Aloy’s entire raison d’être, making her the perfect hero for her “techno-nihilist” times.
Machine hunter Jack of all trades Journey to the west Sights to behold Our take Horizon Forbidden West is a sequel to 2017’s hit Horizon Zero Dawn.
 It once again drops players into a postapocalyptic world where humanity and nature alike have begun to reform following a man-made catastrophe that filled the world with deadly machines resembling malevolent versions of Boston Dynamics robots. Despite its gloom-and-doom premise, it’s not a cynical game. Instead, it presents a bright and beautiful open world full of tribes that have found ways to coexist with machines without sacrificing nature. Aloy sees the potential utopia growing amid the decaying cities, like a rose in concrete, and is determined to save it. She’s persuasive; I was right there with her.
The best PS5 controllers for 2023 The PS5 games with the best graphics The best PS5 games for 2023 Though it’s not without its technical hiccups, Horizon Forbidden West is a strong addition to the PS5’s growing collection of hits.
 Guerilla Games solves many of the biggest gripes players had with its predecessor to create a gorgeous open-world game with better traversal, more varied combat, and awe-inspiring machines that are a joy to tear apart.
Machine hunter Upon firing my first arrow, I immediately remembered why Horizon Zero Dawn captivated me in 2017: Its combat is unmatched. The main hook of that game is that players use arrows, traps, and stealth to deconstruct detailed machines piece by piece.
Horizon Forbidden West doubles down on those strengths in every possible way with better weapons and enemies.
Slowing down time and sniping a component off a machine with a well-placed arrow remains a satisfying thrill. It turns every battle into a complex puzzle where patience is rewarded. But for players who don’t want to hide in the bushes waiting to strike, the sequel is much more accommodating to different playing styles. Early in the game, I acquired an exploding javelin, which I could chuck at big monsters to cause massive damage, though it would destroy useful parts. Tools like that only make battles more layered. While I tried to salvage as many parts as possible, some tough enemies required that I hit the panic button and prioritize survival over scavenging — and I got a big, gleeful explosion for my trouble.
Image used with permission by copyright holder To make good use of the new tools, Guerilla Games has doubled the amount of machines in this game. While Horizon Zero Dawn mostly featured monsters based on dinosaurs, Forbidden West looks to the wider animal kingdom for inspiration — and it’s better for it. Early in the game, Aloy faces an enormous metal snake that chaotically slithers around. When it rears its head off the ground, it exposes a weak spot: A column of grinding gears on its chest. Moments like that make fights feel more strategic and reward players who can quickly analyze the design and behaviors of any new monster they face.
When a battle starts to feel hopeless, there’s always a way for players to get the upper hand.
The game also retools its melee combat, which is a blessing. In the previous game, spear attacks felt like an afterthought, which made any battle against humans a slog. This time, Aloy can execute more combos beyond light and heavy attacks. She can even create a weak point on man or machine by unleashing a charged power attack. It’s a more thoughtful system that incentivizes players to mix up their attacks and get strategically aggressive.
To round things out, Aloy can now also execute special abilities, thanks to more in-depth skill trees. Every weapon type can gain a special alt-fire mode that can quickly turn the tide of battle. With the javelin, Aloy can throw a few up in the air and rain them down on a patch of enemies. There are “super” abilities too, such as one that raises Aloy’s chance of critical hits for a short period. When a battle starts to feel hopeless, there’s always a way for players to get the upper hand.
Jack of all trades Combat isn’t the only element that gets a workout here. Just about everything in Horizon Forbidden West is bigger and, for the most part, better. Open-world games like Assassin’s Creed Valhalla tend to give players tons to do, but each activity can feel flat as a result, as if developers were spread too thin to make any one idea sing. That’s not the case here. When Horizon Forbidden West casually drops in a surprisingly deep figure-battling minigame, it could reasonably become an instant obsession for an unsuspecting player.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The game’s ruins are a perfect example of that. There are a handful of decaying buildings scattered around the map hiding collectibles. They’re essentially big puzzle boxes that’ll have players “solving” the space through clever environmental platforming challenges. Guerilla Games may be known for its action, but it might also be the best big-budget puzzle studio working right now.
The Horizon series has some of the best worldbuilding around, and the wrinkles introduced in Forbidden West only add more depth to its present and past.
The only thing the studio doesn’t fully excel at is dialogue. While Horizon Forbidden West has a gripping story that features searing critiques of colonialism and Jeff Bezos-like tech billionaires , it doesn’t always communicate it in the most exciting ways. Many of the game’s characters are devoid of personality and seemingly only exist to dump exposition. Dialogue sequences push the 30-minute mark, with talking heads dryly spouting lore. Those sequences had me scared to start subquests for fear I might trigger a Metal Gear Solid -length conversation.
I understand where this comes from: “Conviction instead of cynicism” describes Guerilla Games as much as it does Aloy. The Horizon series has some of the best worldbuilding and storytelling around, and the wrinkles introduced in Forbidden West only add more depth to its present and past. My favorite side story revolves around a tribe that praises “land-Gods,” machines that literally fertilize the world. It’s one of the many details that paints a wider picture of how different societies rebuild in the wake of apocalypse.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The game’s storytelling is at its best when it lets the environments do the talking. There’s a lot players can glean simply by looking at how tribes have built their villages. Some hide behind thick rock walls, fearfully closed off from the world. Others have let plant life grow into their architecture, showing their close connection with nature. I hope to see future Horizon games give us more environmental stories like that and leave the long-winded conversations for Sony’s inevitable film or TV adaptation.
Journey to the west When Horizon Zero Dawn launched in 2017, it enjoyed approximately one week in the spotlight before The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild ate its lunch. As impressive as that Horizon game was, it had the misfortune of launching before a game that completely overhauled the genre.
Horizon Forbidden West takes that moment to heart by learning the right lessons from its friendly rival, even if it doesn’t fully recreate its strengths.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The most obvious inspiration comes in the game’s approach to traversal. Movement was limited in Horizon Zero Dawn , with Aloy needing to seek out specific paths to climb a mountain or find a rappel point to jump off it. This time, she gets a Shieldwing, a high-tech spin on Link’s sailcloth that lets her glide through the air. It’s a simple addition, but one the game needed. Now players can climb as high as they want without worrying about how they’ll get down.
Similar changes have been made to climbing. Rather than finding specific paths, scanning a surface lets Aloy see every crag she can grab. It’s not quite the same as Zelda’s “climb anything” mechanic (some rock walls inexplicably have no climbable points despite looking exactly the same as ones that do), but it does make exploration feel a touch more fluid.
Any time a ray of golden light washed over a sandy beach or snowy mountaintop, I had to drop what I was doing and bask in it.
The only new feature that doesn’t quite work is swimming. Aloy can dive underwater this time, which can be a mixed experience. On one hand, it results in some gorgeous visuals and adds more depth to the world. On the other hand, underwater movement is slow and the camera has a panic attack whenever Aloy gets too close to a ceiling while swimming. I tended to avoid underwater caverns altogether when possible.
Sights to behold The titular Forbidden West is a consistently mesmerizing sight that’s worth exploring. It’s a technical workhorse from a pure graphical fidelity standpoint, but it’s the art design that really stands out. The world is more colorful, with vibrant flora making every screenshot look like a landscape painting. There’s a real sense that nature has reclaimed the world, transforming each biome into its own distinct ecosystem. Any time a ray of golden light washed over a sandy beach or snowy mountaintop, I had to drop what I was doing and bask in it.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The awe-inspiring visuals do come at a cost. I encountered several technical hiccups while playing, even after a day one patch was implemented. Some were forgivable enough, like the occasional, awkward asset load-in. Others were more jarring, like fairly frequent crashes. One crash left me stuck in the side of a mountain, forcing me to scrub to an earlier autosave. Some of the more egregious problems should be resolved with the patch and more fixes could further smooth it, but it’s worth noting that I encountered these issues on a PS5. The early patch will help reduce issues like this on PS4, but may not eliminate them entirely.
There’s a debate to be had about whether the game’s size is detrimental to the final experience, though I do think Horizon Forbidden West justifies its bloat compared to its peers. Guerilla Games has a wealth of good ideas that fill it out, both visually and mechanically. It’s clear that it cares about this world as much as Aloy does and wants players to explore it with the same wide-eyed sincerity. As someone who can be cynical about the tired open-world genre, I found it to be effective. I want to see Guerilla’s conviction pay off and for the Horizon series to thrive in a harsh gaming landscape.
Our take Horizon Forbidden West establishes the Horizon franchise as a power player in Sony’s first-party arsenal. It fixes the few blemishes Horizon Zero Dawn had by strengthening its combat and adding better ways to get around the world. It suffers from the usual big-budget, open-world bloat with an overabundance of dialogue and technical hiccups brought on by the game’s immense scale. Even with those issues, it excels at just about everything else it does, making it another gorgeous adventure for PlayStation fans.
Is there a better alternative? Ghost of Tsushima: Director’s Cut is comparable in quality if you weren’t a fan of Horizon Zero Dawn , but want a great PlayStation open-world game.
How long will it last? The main game took me 45 hours and that was with a 50% completion rate. That makes it longer than Horizon Zero Dawn, which could be fully completed in 60 hours.
Should you buy it? Yes.
Horizon Forbidden West is easily one of the best games Sony has released since the PS5’s launch. It’s a must-own addition to any growing current-gen collection.
Horizon Forbidden West was tested on a PS5 hooked up to a TCL 6-Series R635 TV.
Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music The best PS5 exclusives The new 1TB PS5 has more usable storage space than the Xbox Series X All upcoming PS5 games: 2023, 2024, and beyond PS5 slim vs. PS5: everything you need to know about the new PS5 model Game Reviews Product Reviews Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Gaming PS Plus Premium is adding a new feature next month that will allow subscribers to cloud stream select PlayStation 5 games. The initial list includes heavy hitters like Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales and Horizon Forbidden West. Sony is targeting an October 30 launch in North America.
Cloud streaming has been one of the primary selling points of PS Plus since its relaunch last year. Subscribers can use the feature to access several games in the service's catalog, including PlayStation 3 games. The new feature will now extend that technology to newer PS5 releases, with Sony saying it plans to make "hundreds" of games streamable.
Gaming The newly redesigned PlayStation 5 is getting its own set of console covers sometime next year. Sony confirms to Digital Trends that several faceplate colors are slated to launch in 2024 but covers for the old PS5 models will not be compatible with the new systems.
One of the PS5's most unique features is its removable faceplates, which allow players to customize their console with new colors and designs. The new PS5 models will evolve that idea with a four-cover panel design that gives the system a slightly different look. Sony is already planning to make those customizable in the near future, according to a statement sent to Digital Trends.
Gaming Sony announced that new, smaller versions of the PlayStation 5 and PlayStation 5 Digital Edition will hit store shelves in November. On top of that, an Ultra HD Blu-ray Disc Drive for Digital Edition consoles is also on its way.
Revealed in a PlayStation Blog post, these new versions aren't being branded the PS5 Slim or anything similar to that; they're just the new flagship versions of Sony's latest console. Their design is similar to the launch models, but is now made up of four individual cover panels. The top panels on each side feature the PlayStation logo and a glossy finish, while the bottom panels are made with the same matte material as current PS5 models. The design makes the PS5 and PS5 Digital Edition lighter and reduces the volume of both consoles by 30%, according to Sony.
In the U.S., the new PS5 will retail for $500, while the new PS5 Digital Edition will cost $450. PS5 Digital Edition owners can then swap out one of the bottom cover panels for the $80 Ultra HD Blu-ray Disc Drive for PS5, which will allow them to play physical copies of games or watch movies on what is sold as a digital-only console. Both of these new PS5 models come with a horizontal stand, although a new Vertical Stand priced at $30 is also in the works.
Despite the slimmer design, the new PS5 models aren't coming with a price cut. The model including a disc drive is still the same price as a current PS5 model. The digital edition is actually getting a $50 price increase from the current digital version's $400 price tag. Those who want to upgrade and add an $80 disc drive after the fact will end up paying more than the non-digital version in the long run.
The PlayStation Blog post confirms that the launch versions of both PS5 consoles will be phased out as these new models hit store shelves in the U.S. sometime in November. If you were planning to get a PS5 console soon, it may be worth considering holding off until these new models launch.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
