Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Guides How to turn off a PS5 By Joseph Yaden Close Just like a modern-day computer, there is a right way to turn off a PlayStation 5 system. There are many reasons you'd want to turn it off instead of placing it in Rest Mode or simply leaving it be.
How to turn off your PS5 from console How to turn off PS5 with DualSense controller Does the PS5 turn off automatically? When to turn your PS5 system off Difficulty Duration What You Need PS5 system But if you do decide to turn your system off completely, you'll want to make sure you're doing it the right way, and in this guide, we'll show you how to — and why you should — turn off your PS5 console.
Sony How to turn off your PS5 from console You can turn off your PS5 system by pressing a button on the front of the console. Note that you should never simply unplug your PS5 system without turning it off first. Unplugging it before powering down can corrupt the console's files. Here's how to turn it off by using the button on the PS5 system.
Step 1: If the system is standing vertically, press the lower button.
Step 2: Hold down the Power button until you hear two beeps, indicating the system is powering down. At this point, you don't need to do anything else.
The brand new PS5 ‘Slim’ is already discounted Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music Best PS5 SSD Black Friday deals: Add more storage to your PS5 now Image used with permission by copyright holder How to turn off PS5 with DualSense controller If you don't feel like getting up or if your PS5 is not in a conveniently accessible spot, you should turn off the system by using the DualSense controller.
Step 1: Press the PS button in the center of the DualSense to bring up the control center.
Step 2: Navigate all the way to the right to the Power icon indicated by a power button.
Step 3: Use the X button to select it and then scroll down to Turn off PS5.
Step 4: Select this option and the system will power down.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Does the PS5 turn off automatically? You can set your PS5 to enter Rest Mode automatically, but there isn't an option for it to shut down automatically. If you want to change its auto Rest Mode functions, the following steps will help you.
Step 1: Navigate to Settings , indicated by the gear icon.
Step 2: Select System.
Step 3: Select Power saving.
Step 4: Here, you'll see Set time until PS5 enters rest mode , which can be altered in one-hour increments, up to five hours.
When to turn your PS5 system off Anytime you plan on moving, performing physical maintenance, or cleaning the PS5 system, you should turn it off rather than placing it into Rest Mode. If you don't turn it off properly, you could risk causing internal damage to the system. While we don't recommend tinkering with the system's internal hardware, if you do want to make any changes (like swapping out a hard driver, for instance), you absolutely need to turn the system off. You should never make hardware changes while the system is on — and that goes for any device, not just a PS5.
 We also suggest turning off your PS5 during thunderstorms that could lead to a loss of power, if possible. You'll notice if you cut power from your PS5 without turning it off the right way — it'll yell at you when you boot it back up. It's likely your system will be fine if this happens, but the best practice is to turn it off properly by using one of the two aforementioned methods above.
Editors' Recommendations How to respec in Persona 5 Tactica PS5 Black Friday deals: consoles, games, and accessories Where to find planes in Fortnite OG PS Plus is getting an underrated RPG cult classic this month The best PS5 controllers for 2023 How-To Guides Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Gaming If you're excited at the prospect of playing split screen in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3, we've got good news: You can! Even better news is that it's a straightforward and easy task to accomplish. All you'll need to ensure is that you have two controllers and that both usernames have been linked to their own Activision accounts. Once you've scored both controllers and gotten your accounts squared away, though, you'll only need to follow a few simple steps to start playing together.
Gaming The PlayStation 5 has finally established a respectable list of console-exclusive titles between first- and third-party developers. These games are able to take full advantage of the PS5 hardware thanks to not needing to worry about developing for other platforms. If you want to play some of the most impressive games you can on your system, no matter what genre you like most, these exclusives are the ones to check out.
In this guide, we'll round up the very best exclusive games the system has to offer. The PS5's exclusive library will undoubtedly grow throughout its life cycle, and we will update this article accordingly as more games come out.
Gaming If you’re the kind of PlayStation loyalist who buys every add-on Sony puts out, 2023 may have been a pricey year for you. We’ve gotten the DualSense Edge, PlayStation VR2, a brand new PS5 model, and the PlayStation Portal -- but that’s not all. Sony is refreshing its audio offerings on top of all that, starting with the Pulse Explore next month.
Sony’s new wireless earbuds are built with PlayStation devices in mind. They use a new PlayStation Link connection system, which is built to easily pair them with the PlayStation 5. That tech actually replaces Bluetooth entirely on the new PlayStation Portal, which means that the Pulse Explore will be one of the only ways to get wireless audio on the handheld this year. It’s a sign that Sony is getting more aggressive about building a dedicated PlayStation ecosystem, Apple-style. It doesn’t just want you to buy Sony consoles, but all of the black-and-white accessories that go with them too.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
