Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Gaming Reviews HTC Vive review The Oculus Rift is cheaper, the Vive Pro is better. Is the original Vive still worth it? By Jayce Wagner Close $799.99 Incredibly immersive Hardware works well Decent launch library Precise, intuitive controls Easy to set up Headset cord can get in the way Field of view isn’t wide enough for full immersion Headset can get sweaty There are only two serious companies in the PC-based VR world. Facebook’s Oculus and HTC’s Vive.
Sturdy, sleek Comfort comes first Virtual reality that won’t make you hurl A beautiful display from a narrow perspective The virtual reality you’ve always dreamed of Surprisingly robust software Our take The Oculus Rift VR headset came first, but it was largely designed for seated or stationary use. That means it’s at its best only in certain specific genres, such as cockpit games. The HTC Vive, its primary competitor, is meant to be used in a room while standing or walking (though it can also be used sitting). Upon the Vive’s release, that was a design decision that instantly made it feel more immersive, creating a Star Trek holodeck-like space in your room to virtually walk around in.
The best Quest 2 accessories PlayStation VR2 is lighter and larger than PS VR HTC Vive Pro 2 vs. Vive Pro The HTC Vive has been reduced down to $500 on its own, although of course you’ll want a system that’s capable of handling its requirements. The question now is as follows: At its new value price, can it compete with newer headsets like higher-resolution, $800 Vive Pro or the stand-alone Oculus Go ? Sturdy, sleek The Vive looks like a device pulled straight out of the future. The infrared tracking dots that appear across the face of the headset are indented from the rounded shape of the headset, creating a distinct look and one that’s more aggressive than the Oculus Rift and other VR headsets, which are more elegant and streamlined. Personally, we find the Vive attractive, at least in the sense that it looks as futuristic as virtual reality feels.
It helps that every piece of the kit, from the trackers, to the controllers, to the cables and the link box, is built from sturdy, thick plastic. It does mean the headset itself is pretty heavy, but as we’ll see, balancing weight properly is more important than shedding pounds.
The controllers are unique. While the closest resemblance might be to a Nintendo Wii Remote, even that feels forced. Their interesting shape is often replicated visually in-game, and the odd ring at the top becomes the perfect place to house gems, or grab objects.
Unfortunately, serious construction and solid connectivity comes at a price, and that price is the Vive’s cable. It’s thick and can be a little unwieldy, especially in games with a lot of spinning or moving around. You’ll get used to it after a while, but it isn’t the most elegant solution. We’re always a little afraid of tripping over your cord.
The cables run into a link box instead of straight into the computer. That makes it easy to run all the cables for power, USB, and HDMI to the same place, without needing a separate power cable. It also acts as a breakaway in case you get a little too enthusiastic, preventing you from yanking an expensive gaming PC off its desk.
Comfort comes first The Vive’s headband has improved drastically from the Vive Pre’s attachment mechanism. The bands on both the sides and top are much sturdier and thicker. The Velcro has side tabs to help adjust the fit while the headset is on, and most people find a comfortable fit in less than a minute.
This is the VR experience you’ve always dreamed of.
It helps that the face gasket on the headset itself is quite squishy and goes all the way around your eyes, with a short break at the bottom for the rubber nose rest. Once it’s fit correctly, there’s no pressure points around the outside of the headset — which thankfully means no “VR face,” an issue with some headsets that leaves a red ring around your eyes.
That hasn’t stopped us from sweating into the Vive on a number of occasions. Especially in games like Hover Junkers , which involve a lot of jumping around and ducking, the foam frame turns into a bit of a sweatband. It’s not dripping, but it’s enough to make you think twice about handing over the headset to someone else after an intense session.
Virtual reality that won’t make you hurl We invited a handful of Digital Trends employees to test out the Vive for brief demos, to identify any nausea-inducing problems with the headset. Reactions were so positive that we had to drag people screaming out of the virtual world. From The Lab to Hover Junkers, all our test subjects wanted to do was play more, check out the other games, and come back around for seconds. Only a couple of our testers reported headset-related comfort issues, which were mostly solved with headband tweaking.
Jessica Lee Star/Digital Trends All testers reported high levels of immersion, and a common high note was the precise, intuitive nature of the controls. Nausea was missing in action, even among individuals normally prone to motion sickness. Letting the user Vive move in real space while also moving in virtual space, as the Vive allows, seems to dramatically improve long-term comfort relative to a seated headset.
A few games available on SteamVR, like 4089: The Ghost Within did give us nausea. This game, and others that only work with a standard Xbox controller, exhibit many of the limitations of the Oculus Rift (and its dev kit predecessors). You have to sit down while playing, and the head tracking is slow.
The biggest problem with the Vive might be how much activity it does require. A few of our testers reported that using the headset was “a lot of work,” in the sense that moving around to play a game is a lot less relaxing than plopping down on a couch. The Vive, though immersive, may not be the device you’ll turn to after a long, tiresome day at work.
There are also some accessories you could invest in that use HTC’s Vive Tracker hardware, but we spent some time with them and you’re probably better off sticking with the included touch-controllers.
A beautiful display from a narrow perspective Before we get too technical about the details of the Vive’s display, we have to note that every head-mounted display (HMD) we’ve tried to this point has had some amount of what’s referred to as the “screen door effect.” No matter how high resolution screens get — and that’s not to discount the 2,880 x 1,600 total resolution of the Vive Pro — it’s not too tough to see the individual pixels when it’s just an inch or two from your eyes.
The upshot is that as long as the processing, UI, and tracking are sharp enough, the screen door isn’t too distracting. I’ve also found that after a few minutes of playing a game, the immersion is enough to stop your eyes from looking for it. It also helps when games adapt their aesthetic to this sort of effect. Resolution issues are most clearly visible on distinct edges, especially on cartoon characters. Higher definition textures, landscapes, and flat surfaces especially look quite a bit sharper.
Our main complaint about the Vive’s display is not the screen door effect itself, but rather the edges of the display, and the rings around the field of view. When the edges of your vision are dark, the supporting structure blends in. When the screen is brightly lit, it’s like wearing a pair of sunglasses with big, dark frames. It’s not detrimental to the experience, but in quiet moments it can definitely downgrade the sense of immersion.
The Vive includes a pair of basic earbuds, although we have a feeling most of you will prefer your own headphones.
 Even over-ear headphones fit comfortably with the headset on, and there’s a 3.5mm plug on the back so your headphone cable doesn’t have to reach from the link box.
The virtual reality you’ve always dreamed of All of these elements don’t mean much if they don’t come together to form a cohesive, engaging experience. Thankfully, they do. Being able to move around, even in a small space, is a huge boon to realism. Even after several hours of play, we found ourselves reaching out to touch a fish swimming past in TheBlu, or ducking quickly behind cover in Hover Junkers.
That freedom of movement also helps keep the virtual world engaging when you might not want to be a part of it. Survival horror games force you to face your fears, even as you cower in the corner of the usable space. When a humongous jellyfish floats toward you, you can’t help but step out of its way.
Add in online play, and things only grow more enthralling.
Hover Junkers places you as the driver and defender of your own hovercraft in a deserted wasteland. Hiding behind junk you dug out of the ground while firing off shots at a real opponent is immediately gratifying, even more so when you show them a rude gesture as their ship explodes into pieces.
Part of the draw with the HTC Vive is, of course, the Steam marketplace. Not only are there a wealth of games ready to play, or coming soon, that support room-scale virtual reality, but veteran PC gamers may already have games in their library that support the headset.
Surprisingly robust software The Rift is no slouch when it comes to ease-of-use and the overall user experience. Indeed, that was a primary focus of Oculus as it developed its headset. But the Vive is no slouch, either, which is a bit surprising given that it’s a joint expedition by two companies, rather than a product built under a single umbrella.
The headset and controllers are built from sturdy plastic that’s pleasing to touch.
Setting up the device means following a process outlined by Valve. While there’s no shortage of cords to connect, and positioning the lighthouse sensors that detect your position in the room can be a pain (they must be at least 4-5 feet high, or higher, and ideally tilted slightly towards the ground), the technical understanding requires is minimal. There’s just a few buttons to press, and connectivity issues were rare, despite the fact both the lighthouses and the controllers communication wirelessly.
You can launch into VR either through the Steam desktop software by starting a VR-compatible game, or by launching SteamVR, which opens a front end that’s very similar to Steam’s Big Picture mode. It’s not as attractive as Oculus’ comparable home screen, but it operates similarly, and we found it reasonably intuitive.
The Vive is not a plug-and-play device. Some level of understanding is required. But if you’ve ever hooked up and mapped a PC joystick, connected a wireless printer, or installed a piece of PC hardware, you should find the Vive’s setup a cinch.
Our take You’ll need three things to experience what the Vive has to offer: A VR-ready computer with a very nice graphics card , enough space for room-scale experiences, and $500. The first two aren’t as much of an issue as they seem on the surface. The hardware required for Vive compatibility is already lower than that of a Rift-ready PC, and Valve’s specifications are just suggestions for optimal performance. If you’ve got everything you need, the HTC Vive is the best way to transform your space into a portal to virtual reality experiences.
Is there a better alternative? Not yet.
The Vive Pro is certainly a better headset, but we didn’t find that the experience justified its significantly higher cost.
For now, the HTC Vive and Oculus Rift are pretty evenly matched.
 We like the Vive better, but the Oculus Rift does come in at just $400, which leaves you some extra money for PC upgrades or new games. It’s an appealing alternative that is almost as good as the HTC Vive, even if it isn’t quite as capable at room-scale experiences.
How long will it last? Physically, the HTC Vive is a robust headset, the one here in the office has survived ever since launch without so much as a scuff or a broken cable. It might not wear out any time soon, but it will start showing its age pretty quickly as new headsets hit the market.
HTC includes a one year limited warranty. That’s the standard offering, even for high-end gaming peripherals. The Oculus Rift also offers a one-year warranty.
Should you buy it? Yes. Even if you’re not into VR, or have no interest, you at least need to try the Vive. This is the VR experience you’ve always dreamed of. It’s the closest thing we’ll get to The Matrix anytime soon.
Editors' Recommendations How we test video game consoles The best HTC Vive games for 2022 The most common HTC Vive problems, and how to fix them Oculus is discontinuing its Go VR headset The best VR-ready laptops you can buy right now Computing Virtual Reality Product Reviews Virtual Reality VR Headset and Accessory Reviews Gaming Hand Tracking on Oculus Quest | Oculus Connect 6 Virtual reality has remained a relatively small niche in video game development despite the innovations made by products like the HTC Vive and the Oculus Rift. But it isn't down and out just yet, as the stand-alone Oculus Quest headset reinvigorates developers' passion.
Computing VR enthusiasts sat up and took notice when Pimax opened a Kickstarter for its 8K headset in October of 2017. The reason is exactly what you’d suspect. With 8K resolution, Pimax’s promised headset offered a new standard for VR clarity. Nearly six thousand backers pledged over 4.2 million dollars and awaited its January 2018 delivery.
And waited. And waited. And waited. The initial goodwill earned by the company’s pie-in-the-sky aspirations faded as backers had to wait longer and longer for headsets to deliver.
Mobile Apple’s on-again, off-again smart headset project is currently back on, and rumors are pointing to the company working with Valve, the video game publisher also responsible for the Steam online game portal, to produce the accessory. The news comes from well-known -- but not always reliable -- online source DigiTimes, which says Apple is working with Valve on “AR head-mounted display devices,” and preparing to release them during the second half of 2020.
The report adds that Apple is working with Quanta Computer and Pegatron to assemble the units, but does not go into detail on how the headsets will work, what they will look like, or the features we can expect. The rumors come from anonymous industry sources, and should therefore be treated as speculation for now. However, it is not the first time we have heard about Apple’s augmented reality plans.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
