Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Reviews Nintendo Switch Lite review The Switch Lite is an unapologetic return to handheld gaming By Felicia Miranda Close $199.99 Comfortable design Sharp and vibrant display Solid battery life Brings back the iconic D-pad Affordable Slightly smaller game library No TV mode support No motion controls This review was last updated by Digital Trends’ gaming editor Lisa Marie Segarra on 3/27/2020.
Small and fierce A serious handheld Our take With the release of the Nintendo Switch — the company’s hybrid, grab-and-go console — Nintendo finally found a happy medium for both console and handheld gamers. The Switch’s ability to “switch” between TV and handheld mode at the snap of a finger was and still is its biggest draw. That said, a few sacrifices were made so it could appeal to a broader audience.
Where to find planes in Fortnite OG One of the best sci-fi games ever made is coming to Nintendo Switch next month Nintendo introduces a new Super Smash Bros. Switch OLED for Black Friday The Switch isn’t as compact as the company’s previous handhelds, such as the venerable Nintendo 3DS , it’s prone to cramping fingers during long game sessions, and it has a short battery life that isn’t ideal for on-the-go gaming. Removing the ability to “switch” from the equation, Nintendo gave us the Switch Lite, an unabashed return to handheld gaming that’s a solution to all those problems.
Small and fierce Ditching the Joy-Cons, the Switch Lite comes with an all-in-one design. It’s almost an inch shorter in width, making it more compact than the original. Coming in at 9.7 ounces, it’s lighter but not so much that it feels flimsy. Instead, you get a more portable console, made to be snatched up and slipped into the side pocket of a backpack or bag when you’re on the go.
Small but comfortable to hold Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Despite being smaller than its predecessor, the Switch Lite feels incredibly comfortable to hold. The layout is slightly different as the shoulder buttons are raised higher and the trigger buttons a bit longer than on the regular Switch. There’s also the introduction of a D-pad in lieu of the four separate directional buttons found on the Joy-Cons.
This makes for smoother and more precise input, as there is no divot to move over in the middle of each button press. It feels good to play Super Mario Maker 2 levels the way I remember playing classic Super Mario games as a kid. The Switch Lite’s ergonomic shape fits snugly into your hands, and with an improved button layout, the handheld gives the impression its been made with long sessions of handheld gaming in mind.
It launched in a small variety of colors — gray, yellow, or turquoise — with off-white buttons that are a nice contrast on the gray console, and complementary to the turquoise and yellow variants. There’s a Pokemon Sword and Shield version available now, and Nintendo likely has plans for even more colors and designs and announced a new coral version in 2020, a strategy the company has used with past handhelds. With its small size, color variety, and matte finish, the Switch Lite has an adorable aesthetic that kids and Nintendo fans will love.
As for performance and battery life, the Switch Lite comes with a smaller and more energy-efficient Tegra chip than the original Switch. Nintendo says this contributes to its longer battery life. Considering portability is one of the Switch Lite’s key features, this is definitely one of the more important upgrades to consider.
Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Nintendo says the Switch Lite will deliver about three to seven hours of playtime. The original Switch, by comparison, promised about 2.5 to 6.5 hours. Playing Link’s Awakening at 50% brightness on the Switch Lite offered up about four hours of playtime. On full brightness, it lasted me about three and a half hours.
If you like to pass the time during a commute or need to keep the kids (or yourself) busy for a few hours, I’d say that the Switch Lite will do a stand-up job. It didn’t last me through a six-hour flight, but it did offer up a nice distraction for a good portion of it. I do wish the Switch Lite offered the same extended battery life as the revised Nintendo Switch, but its small size and more affordable price may be why it doesn’t.
A serious handheld There aren’t any obvious differences in gaming performance; Nintendo’s properties continue to run as smooth as butter on the Switch Lite. Drifting around Bowser’s Castle in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe is still as satisfying as I remember it to be. Just the same, Xenoblade Chronicles 2 still suffers from texture loading issues, and the occasional drop in framerate is ever-so-slightly noticeable in Link’s Awakening.
 Basically, games that didn’t perform so hot on the original Switch will continue to, well, not be so great on the Switch Lite.
Playing games on handheld and comparing the two, I found the 5.5-inch touchscreen and 720p resolution of the Switch Lite display sharper and more vibrant than the original Switch’s screen. This is likely a result of how the Switch’s native resolution looks on a smaller screen but the difference is noticeable.
More vibrant and sharper display Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends Despite their differences, the Switch Lite has many of the same offerings as the original. The OS is the same, which means it comes with all the same features — and lack thereof. There is no native chat support (at least not without a little help from game developers) and, as brought up by Business Insider , still no Bluetooth audio support.
The Switch Lite’s lack of Bluetooth support for wireless headphones is a potential ding for some, but it’s more environmentally responsible. Wireless earbuds contribute to the problem of e-waste due to their short lifespans and lack of repairability.
 And if you truly desire Bluetooth audio, buy an adapter — one of several cool Switch Lite accessories you’ll end up investing in. There’s also the included auxiliary port for wired headphones, which will offer up better audio for gaming anyway.
It’s also worth mentioning that the Switch Lite doesn’t inherently support the full Switch library. This makes sense: The Switch Lite doesn’t come with a dock, HDMI output, or Joy-Cons, which means it can’t connect to the TV and doesn’t have motion controls. Out of the box, it only supports games playable in handheld mode, which you can see labeled on the back of a game’s case or on its page under supported play modes in the Nintendo eShop.
This doesn’t significantly impact your options, but if you’re keen on playing Just Dance or trying out Nintendo Labo , you’ll want the standard Switch. As someone who only plays the Switch in handheld mode, these options won’t be missed. You could purchase Joy-Cons and look into a stand if you’re interested in playing games that require tabletop mode support, but that’s an additional chunk of change out of your pocket that might be better spent on a regular Switch.
Our take For handheld gamers, the Nintendo Switch Lite is a small triumph. Its compact body makes it more portable than the original Switch, and its ergonomic design feels great to hold during long sessions of gaming. These small improvements combined with the return of the D-pad and a stunning display add up to make the Switch Lite the best dedicated Nintendo handheld yet.
That said, it’s a handheld through and through. With no dock, HDMI support, or Joy-Cons, the Switch Lite doesn’t have TV support or motion controls, which slightly impacts your gaming options. Its battery life could be better, but it’s an improvement over the original.
Is there a better alternative? No, the Nintendo Switch Lite is currently the best handheld you can get. The closest competitors would be the Nintendo 3DS or PlayStation Vita, but the 3DS is seeing fewer game releases and the PS Vita is no longer supported by Sony. Both are dated compared to the Switch Lite.
How long will it last? Nintendo systems have a 12-month warranty that covers defects but not physical damage. In terms of relevancy, the Switch Lite has the potential to last until the next generation of Nintendo consoles. While the Sony PS5 and Xbox Scarlett are due out next year, beloved first-party exclusives and an ever-growing game library make the Switch Lite a considerable option, especially for gamers looking for a dedicated handheld.
Should you buy it? Yes. The Switch Lite is the best handheld console you can buy today, and possibly the best ever made.
Updated on 3-27-2020: Updated information on the new coral Switch Lite model.
Editors' Recommendations The best Mario games of all time, ranked The best Switch controllers for 2023 Indie World Showcase November 2023: How to watch and what to expect The best Switch games for 2023 All upcoming Switch games: 2023, 2024, and beyond Nintendo Nintendo Switch Product Reviews Video Game System Reviews Gaming The final wave of Mario Kart 8 Deluxe's Booster Course Pass launches on November 9, ending the racing game's long line of updates. Wave 6 brings several classic Mario Kart courses to the Switch game, including the long-requested Wii Rainbow Road.
https://twitter.com/NintendoAmerica/status/1719701295013953729 Gaming Hogwarts Legacy is the latest and greatest adventure in the magical Harry Potter universe. Set in the 1800s, the story focuses on a generic fifth-year student who’s tasked with taking down a brewing Goblin rebellion in-between their school duties. For Potterheads of all ages, a game that allows them to traverse the halls of Hogwarts, learn their favorite spells from the books and films, and fight enemies like dark wizards, trolls, and dragons is an absolute dream.
The game launched on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X, and PC in February. While reviews were mixed across the board, longtime fans jumped into the wizarding world in droves — over 15 million copies of the game have been sold to date. Unfortunately, players on the top-tier consoles were the only ones who had access to the game for a while. Instead of launching on all platforms simultaneously, Hogwarts Legacy's release has been staggered.
Gaming Super Mario Bros. Wonder is taking the series back to its 2D roots with a new and exciting art style and a ton of new mechanics. Alongside new power-ups and badges, this title has perhaps the largest amount of collectibles and hidden secrets of any game in the series. Between all the Wonder Seeds, Wonder Flowers, Flower Coins, and more, there's no shortage of things to do as you run, jump, and flip your way through all the various worlds. Among all the playable characters to choose from, one non-playable character makes his triumphant return. Captain Toad has managed to make his way to the Flower Kingdom, but this intrepid explorer is not so easy to find. Each time you interact with him, he will reward you with some Flower Coins and a hint at an upcoming world, so let's hunt down all his locations in Super Mario Wonder.
All Captain Toad locations Captain Toad appears in five unique spots on the Super Mario Bros. Wonder world map. Talking to him at each spot will give you a little bit more of his story, plus the aforementioned rewards.
First Captain Toad location Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
