Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Nintendo Switch OLED review: An upgrade’s an upgrade By Giovanni Colantonio Close $350.00 Improved screen Improved onboard audio Much better kickstand Cleaner dock design No upgrades for TV Storage is still small Much of the discussion around the Nintendo Switch OLED model has been about what it’s not, as opposed to what it is. From its initial announcement, fans were vocally disappointed about the upgrade’s lack of three main things: 4K graphics while docked, a resolution bump in handheld mode, and a battery boost. That left many to completely write the system off as an inessential midlife Switch upgrade instead of the version they’d envisioned.
Seeing the light Undeniable upgrade Neglecting TV gamers Our take So let’s talk about what the Switch OLED actually is: It’s a better version of the Nintendo Switch , unequivocally. It sports a bigger, brighter screen that makes the old Switch look washed out. That alone would be enough to make this a notable improvement, and it’s not the only new feature here. The question is whether or not it’s enough of a difference considering that the Switch is a four-year-old console that lags behind nearly half a decade of tech advancement in gaming. The answer is likely no, but it hardly matters when Nintendo is playing by its own rules.
Where to find planes in Fortnite OG One of the best sci-fi games ever made is coming to Nintendo Switch next month Nintendo introduces a new Super Smash Bros. Switch OLED for Black Friday The Nintendo Switch OLED tunes up an already great console with a better screen, cleaner audio, and a kickstand that puts the old Switch’s to shame. For those who prefer to play their games in handheld or tabletop mode, it’s an upgrade worth making if your Switch is aging. Those who play docked are left in the dust, though, making it a somewhat puzzling addition to the Switch family.
Seeing the light The one key difference you need to know about here is the console’s namesake OLED screen. Considering how uninventive the system’s name is, you’d have to assume Nintendo is hanging a lot of its hopes on that aspect. There’s a good reason for that, though: The new OLED panel is unquestionably better than the Switch’s dated LCD panel.
For starters, it’s bigger. While the regular Switch sports a 6.2-inch screen surrounded by a thick black bezel, the OLED stretches out to seven inches, making better use of the Switch’s real estate. It’s a noticeable difference, especially since video games tend to use the tiniest text possible when it comes to UI.
Image used with permission by copyright holder More importantly, everything is brighter on the OLED panel. You can see that clearly simply by booting up the home menu on an old and new console. The original Switch almost looks like it has a white haze over it, dulling colors ever so slightly. By contrast, everything is crisp on the OLED screen; it doesn’t feel like anything is lost in digital translation. In testing Metroid Dread on it, I swapped back and forth between my TV and the OLED in handheld mode. I quickly found that the image simply looked clearer on the OLED than it did on my aging TV. I opted to play the entire game portably as a result.
The new OLED panel is unquestionably better than the Switch’s dated LED panel.
For disappointed fans, a better screen was only half of what they were hoping for. The console does not feature any sort of resolution boost in handheld mode, which means it’s capped at 720p like its predecessor. A lack of 1080p sounds like a big deal on paper, but it ultimately doesn’t make much of a difference on a seven-inch screen. Instead, the OLED gives Nintendo’s games a boost where it really matters. A game like Mario Kart 8 Deluxe shines on the console, for instance, with its colors popping in all their vibrant glory.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I’m the kind of Switch player who almost exclusively plays in handheld mode, even if I’m at home. From that perspective, the new screen is a notable improvement for me. I wouldn’t have rushed out to buy one based on the spec sheet, but now that I’m using it, I can’t imagine going back to my old model.
Undeniable upgrade The OLED’s other upgrades are more subtle by comparison, though they justify the $50 bump in price. For one, the system has a completely redesigned kickstand, which makes the old Switch’s flimsy plastic one look like a cruel joke. The entire back bottom half of the console folds out and stays in place at any angle. It goes so far back that the console can almost lay flat, with a slight incline. The Switch feels way more stable in tabletop mode, making the dream of playing games on a plane feel much more realistic. It no longer feels like the Switch will fall over when matched up against a strong gust of wind.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Audio also gets a boost here, which is a small, but nice touch. When playing in handheld mode, the onboard speakers just sound a bit louder and crisper overall. Much like the way the new display removes the Switch’s washed-out haze, the same is true here to a more subtle extent. The upgrade in audio won’t make a difference if you play with headphones while on the go, but it’s nice for a lazy couch gamer like me.
The other changes here are less essential, though it’s hard to complain much. The Switch’s internal storage has been doubled from 32 GB to 64 GB. That number is still pretty paltry considering that the upcoming Steam Deck includes 512 GB of storage if you shell out for the top model. Switch games are smaller than PC games, and you can still save space if you buy Nintendo’s game physically, but those who live by downloads will still need a microSD card in any case.
The OLED’s other upgrades are more subtle by comparison, though they justify the $50 bump in price.
The aesthetic component is a nice plus, too, though hardly a reason to upgrade. The white Joy-Cons appear especially clean when attached to the screen, making it look like less of a toy. The white dock is similarly nice on the eyes, pairing particularly well with a PlayStation 5 on your entertainment center. The inside of the dock just looks cleaner, too, with a smooth black interior that doesn’t feel quite as screen-scratching as the normal dock. I wouldn’t advise that anyone pick up a console for the colors (there’s nothing different about the Joy-Cons, so don’t expect a drift fix here), but it’s a fine bonus if you do pick one up.
Image used with permission by copyright holder “Bonus” is kind of the key word here. Other than the screen and the kickstand, the OLED’s new features are nice, but inessential add-ons. The only other important boost here is in battery, though it depends on what Switch you already own. For those who bought a base model Switch in 2017 and didn’t upgrade to its new SKU in 2019, the OLED features the latter’s increased battery size. It wasn’t worth shelling out $300 for an otherwise identical product then, but it’s more enticing now in the context of an actually buffed system.
Neglecting TV gamers What’s most puzzling about the Switch OLED is that it doesn’t bring any real improvements for docked play. While handheld and tabletop mode get a nice boost here, it’ll run exactly the same on your TV. Considering that Nintendo previously released the handheld-focused Switch Lite , you’d think its next system would tackle the other side of the hybrid console’s player base. Bafflingly, that’s not the case here.
What we’re left with is a console upgrade that’s an easy recommendation to some players, but completely irrelevant to others.
There’s only one real difference when it comes to TV play: The newly redesigned dock includes an LAN port to support wired online play. Theoretically, that should make online experiences more stable, which is something the Nintendo Switch desperately needs. Naturally, it’s not quite so simple. Online multiplayer is a two-way (or four-way or 100-way) street. If I’m wired in, I’ll know that I won’t get Wi-Fi hiccups, but that doesn’t mean my opponents won’t have problems on their end. Most of my tests with Super Smash Bros. Ultimate were smooth, but every once in a while, I’d jump into a four-player game and stutters or lag would kick in. A wired internet port only really works if everyone has access to it, which requires players widely upgrading their docks. More practically, the wired connection is going to be a niche benefit for competitive players.
Image used with permission by copyright holder What we’re left with is a console upgrade that’s an easy recommendation to some players, but completely irrelevant to others. Buying the console for the first time? The OLED is a no-brainer. Are you a handheld player eager to move up a tier? It’s a good excuse to upgrade if you have the money to spare. But for those who only play on TV, there’s virtually no reason to buy one — especially since its dock will be available to purchase separately via Nintendo’s website.
With Nintendo denying reports that a 4K model is in the works, it’s impossible to know if we’ll ever get a real Switch Pro. For the time being, this could be the last upgrade we get during the Switch’s lifetime. It’s certainly not the change we were hoping for, but I’d be lying if I said the new display wasn’t impressive. This is the model Nintendo should have put out at launch.
Our take The Nintendo Switch OLED model is an improvement over an already good console, full stop. No, it can’t do 4K and it doesn’t feel like a PS4 Pro-sized midlife change, but an upgrade is an upgrade. The new OLED panel is a huge improvement that makes the Switch’s old screen look washed out by comparison. A new kickstand and better onboard audio both justify the extra $50, though its other improvements are somewhat superfluous. It may not be the upgrade the system needed after four years on the market, but it’s the definitive model to buy if you don’t own a Switch already.
Is there a better alternative? It’s certainly better than a regular Switch if you play handheld. If you want more power, the Steam Deck is right around the corner (if you can get one).
How long will it last? The redesigned dock reduces the likelihood of accruing hairline scratches on the screen. Is your Switch still working four years later? Then expect this one to keep chugging in a similar fashion.
Should you buy it? Yes. If you don’t have a Switch already, there’s no reason not to start here. It’s a worthwhile upgrade for those who play in handheld mode, too, though TV players won’t get much of anything out of this.
Editors' Recommendations The best Mario games of all time, ranked The best Switch controllers for 2023 Indie World Showcase November 2023: How to watch and what to expect The best Switch games for 2023 All upcoming Switch games: 2023, 2024, and beyond Game Reviews Nintendo Nintendo Switch Product Reviews Gaming The final wave of Mario Kart 8 Deluxe's Booster Course Pass launches on November 9, ending the racing game's long line of updates. Wave 6 brings several classic Mario Kart courses to the Switch game, including the long-requested Wii Rainbow Road.
https://twitter.com/NintendoAmerica/status/1719701295013953729 Gaming Hogwarts Legacy is the latest and greatest adventure in the magical Harry Potter universe. Set in the 1800s, the story focuses on a generic fifth-year student who’s tasked with taking down a brewing Goblin rebellion in-between their school duties. For Potterheads of all ages, a game that allows them to traverse the halls of Hogwarts, learn their favorite spells from the books and films, and fight enemies like dark wizards, trolls, and dragons is an absolute dream.
The game launched on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X, and PC in February. While reviews were mixed across the board, longtime fans jumped into the wizarding world in droves — over 15 million copies of the game have been sold to date. Unfortunately, players on the top-tier consoles were the only ones who had access to the game for a while. Instead of launching on all platforms simultaneously, Hogwarts Legacy's release has been staggered.
Gaming Super Mario Bros. Wonder is taking the series back to its 2D roots with a new and exciting art style and a ton of new mechanics. Alongside new power-ups and badges, this title has perhaps the largest amount of collectibles and hidden secrets of any game in the series. Between all the Wonder Seeds, Wonder Flowers, Flower Coins, and more, there's no shortage of things to do as you run, jump, and flip your way through all the various worlds. Among all the playable characters to choose from, one non-playable character makes his triumphant return. Captain Toad has managed to make his way to the Flower Kingdom, but this intrepid explorer is not so easy to find. Each time you interact with him, he will reward you with some Flower Coins and a hint at an upcoming world, so let's hunt down all his locations in Super Mario Wonder.
All Captain Toad locations Captain Toad appears in five unique spots on the Super Mario Bros. Wonder world map. Talking to him at each spot will give you a little bit more of his story, plus the aforementioned rewards.
First Captain Toad location Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
