Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Guides Nintendo Switch vs. Switch Lite By Gabe Gurwin Close If you haven’t picked up the Nintendo Switch yet, you now have two distinct options to choose from. There’s the original system, which offers portability and docked television play alongside removable Joy-Con controllers, and there’s the Nintendo Switch Lite , the smaller, cheaper alternative.
Specs Design and features Controller Games Accessories Price and release date The Switch Lite is similar to the original handheld but features some significant design changes that might pique or quell your interest. Both are considerable choices, but determining which is the best for you depends on what you’re looking for. We’ve broken down how each console differs to make your decision easier — we’ve even rounded up the best Nintendo Switch deals available now.
See more Best Nintendo Switch games Nintendo Switch vs. PS5 Best Nintendo Switch exclusives Specs Nintendo Switch Nintendo Switch Lite Dimensions 10 x 4.2 x .55 inches 8.2 x 3.6 x 0.55 inches Weight 0.66 pounds without controllers, 0.88 pounds with controllers 0.61 pounds Processor Nvidia customized Tegra/Tegra X1+ Nvidia customized Tegra X1+ RAM 4GB 4GB Storage 32GB of flash storage, expandable through MicroSD 32GB of flash storage, expandable through MicroSD A/V output HDMI out No I/O Output 1 USB-C, USB 3.0, USB 2.o x2 1 USB-C Communication Wi-Fi, Bluetooth 4.1 Wi-Fi, Bluetooth 4.1 Controller Joy-Con or Pro Controller Built into system Screen size and resolution 6.2 inches, 720p 5.5 inches, 720p Battery life Up to 6.5 hours for old model, 9 hours for new model Up to 7 hours Physical media Proprietary cartridge Proprietary cartridge Availability Available Now Available Now DT review 4/5 stars 4.5/5 stars The best Switch controllers for 2023 Nintendo introduces a new Super Smash Bros. Switch OLED for Black Friday All upcoming Switch games: 2023, 2024, and beyond Design and features Ahmad Mohammed/Unsplash The standard Nintendo Switch is a hybrid console. It can be played as a handheld system or in “tabletop” mode with its included kickstand, and as a home console when placed in its dock. Its power isn’t its biggest selling point, falling somewhere between the Wii U and the standard Xbox One and PlayStation 4 consoles. What makes the Switch special is the many ways it can be used, though.
Outside of its dock, the Switch functions as a typical handheld system. A Joy-Con controller is locked onto either side with the same button layout and sticks you’d expect on a standard gamepad. At any time, however, you can remove the Joy-Con controllers and place the system in its dock and begin playing the system as a home console. This “switch” happens instantly, and you can remove the console from the dock to play as a handheld system just as swiftly.
The Switch Lite doesn’t have many of the features that make the Switch unique, and this is reflected in its reduced price. The system doesn’t come with a dock, nor is there any way to connect it to a television.
The controls on either side resemble the Joy-Con controllers, but they are a permanent part of the system. Its weight and screen size have both been reduced, with the latter shrinking from 6.2 inches to 5.5 inches. Both systems have a 720p-capable screen.
However, the biggest difference comes from the new custom Tegra X1+ chip. Although its capabilities are nearly identical to the original Switch, it’s much more efficient, leading to longer battery life in the Switch Lite, up to 7.5 hours. Nintendo quietly released a revision of the original Switch with this new processor, nearly double the battery life of the original console. Unfortunately, the only way to tell if it’s a new Switch is by the box and serial number. If it’s a red box, it’s the new Switch. Likewise, if the serial number starts with “XKW,” it’s the new one. Outside of the new processor, the two models are the same.
Cloud saves are supported on the Switch so long as you have a Nintendo Switch Online subscription , so you’ll likely be able to access your game progress across both systems in that way. There is a selection of games like Pokémon: Let’s Go, however, that don’t have cloud saving enabled.
As for the ability to transfer data between the two devices, it’s possible, though not instantaneously. Just as you would do going from one Switch to another, you can transfer your entire account to the Switch Lite if you want to pick one up. However, you can’t go back and forth unless you transfer your profile manually each time.
Controller Image used with permission by copyright holder The original Nintendo Switch comes with two Joy-Con controllers in the basic package, as well as the Joy-Con grip. When attached to the Switch, the Joy-Con controllers function identically to how the controls work on the Switch Lite. When detached, however, you have far more options.
Turned sideways, one Joy-Con controller can be used on its own, much like a classic NES gamepad, and buttons inside the rail portion can be raised with the included Joy-Con straps. This lets you essentially play a two-player game wherever you are, such as Mario Kart 8 Deluxe or New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe.
If you place both Joy-Con controllers in the Joy-Con grip, they resemble the look and feel of a traditional gamepad, and this is the primary way to play games while docked unless you purchase a Pro Controller.
Though the Switch Lite does support these controllers via Bluetooth connection, its own controls are not detachable. As such, you will need to purchase at least one Joy-Con controller to play the system with a friend, as well as a stand to place it down since the kickstand found on the standard Switch has been removed from the Switch Lite.
Still, the fixed controls do mean the Switch Lite gets a full-fledged directional pad. For certain platforming games that demand precise jumps, this could make the Switch Lite the preferred option, at least among those who do not want to play their games on a TV.
One type of controller that will apparently not be supported by the Switch Lite at all is the GameCube controller. An adapter is available to use this controller on the standard Switch, but it connects via a USB port on the dock rather than directly to the console. No dock with the Switch Lite, no USB port.
Games Image used with permission by copyright holder The Nintendo Switch and the Nintendo Switch Lite play almost the same library of games, and with the proper accessories, you can achieve complete parity between the two systems. Out of the box, however, there are a few titles you cannot enjoy on the Switch Lite.
Super Mario Party can only be played in either tabletop or docked mode because it makes heavy use of the Joy-Con controllers’ unique motion features. The same is true for launch title 1-2 Switch , which utilizes “HD Rumble” for some of its mini-games.
Without buying a few Joy-Con controllers (and a Grip to keep them charged), these games will not work on Switch Lite. They can run without extra Joy-Cons, but they’re not exactly playable. Certain modes also will be inaccessible in other games. You won’t be able to use motion controllers to flick your Poké Ball in Pokémon: Let’s Go , for instance.
Accessories Felicia Miranda/Digital Trends The other major incompatibility with Switch Lite is Nintendo Labo.
 The graphics are programmed to fit the original Switch, so the sets don’t look right on the Switch Lite. Labo also uses Joy-Con controllers, which aren’t compatible with the Switch Lite. That means the VR modes added to The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild and Super Mario Odyssey won’t be available to Switch Lite owners.
There are plenty of incredible cases, skins, and screen protectors designed specifically for the Nintendo Switch Lite. Because it’s tinier than the Switch, the conventional accessories won’t fit well on the latest device. Still, they can’t match the classic Nintendo Switch’s massive number of accessories , several of which are not supported by the Switch Lite. Cases, screen shields, and guard shells, for instance, will all be too massive. There are a few items that will work well, though, like headsets (using a 3.5mm input) and control stick covers.
Price and release date Image used with permission by copyright holder The regular Nintendo Switch system is available now.
 The sale value is $300, but it’s usually much cheaper when there’s a sale going on, such as Prime Day and Black Friday. The regular system comes in dark gray or neon red and blue colors, with picturesque special edition consoles making their way on the scene too.
The Switch Lite is $200 is available in a variety of fun and different colors like coral, yellow, gray, and turquoise. A special edition for Pokémon Sword and Shield was released quickly following the launch but sold out immediately.
Editors' Recommendations Where to find planes in Fortnite OG One of the best sci-fi games ever made is coming to Nintendo Switch next month The best Switch games for 2023 When does Hogwarts Legacy come out on Nintendo Switch? The best games on Nintendo Switch Online Buying Guides Buying Guides Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming It was a good morning for both Mario and RPG fans. Today's Nintendo Direct not only showed more of the new Super Mario RPG remake, but also unveiled a new port of Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door that's coming next year to the Nintendo Switch.
Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door - Nintendo Direct 9.14.2023 Gaming Mario vs. Donkey Kong was announced during today's Nintendo Direct. Launching on February 16, this new title is the first entry in the Mario vs. Donkey Kong series to hit the Nintendo Switch and the latest in the series since its last entry in 2016.
Mario vs. Donkey Kong - Nintendo Direct 9.14.2023 Gaming Nintendo will hold a full-fledged Nintendo Direct presentation this September, just as it has during this month for the past several years. Whether or not this would happen was in question because of the June Direct and August's Super Mario Bros. Wonder Direct, but now that's no longer a debate. The next Nintendo Direct will take place on September 14 and give us insights on games coming to the Nintendo Switch throughout the rest of the year. It will air live, so we've outlined where and how people can watch the September 2023 Nintendo Direct, as well as what people should expect from it.
When is the September 2023 Nintendo Direct The September 2023 Nintendo Direct starts at 7 a.m. PT on September 14, so you may need to get up early in the morning for it. Nintendo also confirmed that the presentation will last about 40 minutes, so be prepared to tune in for some time.
How to watch the September 2023 Nintendo Direct Nintendo Direct 9.14.2023 - Nintendo Switch Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
