Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best PSVR2 Games PSVR 2 on PC PSVR Games on PSVR2 PSVR vs PSVR 2 PSVR 2 vs Meta Quest 2 Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? PlayStation VR2 review: a powerful VR headset that’s begging to be played By Giovanni Colantonio Close $550.00 Very comfortable Clear display Excellent Sense controllers Improved tracking and feedback Competitive specs Bulky wired design Costs more than a PS5 Lacking games and direction I didn’t understand the true significance of the PlayStation VR2’s name until I first strapped it on.
Design and comfort Setup Controllers and feedback Specs Software OK, there’s seemingly not much of a puzzle to decode there; it’s the second PlayStation VR headset.
 It doesn’t take a genius to figure it out. But as I unboxed the device and began to see the same familiar design hallmarks that defined PlayStation’s first headset, I could quickly see why Sony opted not to brand it with a distinct name like the PlayStation Quest. The headset doesn’t reinvent Sony’s approach to VR so much as it iterates on a first draft. It’s a true hardware sequel.
PlayStation boss Jim Ryan is stepping down, with successor yet to be named Best PlayStation Plus Deals: Save on Essential, Plus and Premium PlayStation Plus is getting a major price hike following Game Pass changes That approach puts PSVR2 in a potentially polarizing spot. Those who love the first version and use it as their sole VR device will be stunned by its major technical upgrade. Brand new releases like Horizon Call of the Mountain look astonishing, and I’d wager that you won’t get a clearer picture or more comfortable experience from any other headset at its price point. Serious VR stalwarts, on the other hand, might come away with a different perspective. Its $550 price tag — double that if you don’t already own the PlayStation 5 needed to run it — is a little eye-popping when placing it next to competitors like the Meta Quest 2.
 Why spend the money on another headset that has less utility than a typical VR device and mostly plays the same games? That duality makes PSVR2 an odd device to critique, as it could either be revelatory or redundant depending on who’s wearing it. As a first dive into the tech or an upgrade to Sony’s first headset, PSVR2 is an impressive evolution of Sony’s gaming gadget. Excellent specs set the stage for Sony to deliver high-end VR experiences that can diversify PlayStation’s already top-notch game library. Though when trying to predict the future, the crystal ball is currently as fuzzy as the first PSVR’s low-res display. An underwhelming slate of launch software leaves me unsure if it’ll be worth the cost of entry in the long run.
Design and comfort When I first saw pictures of the PlayStation VR2, I was thrilled. At a glance, with little visual context, it looked like Sony had opted for a sleeker design this time around. I was very wrong. Upon taking it out of the box, I quickly realized that the PSVR2 is every bit as big as the first PSVR, if not a little larger.
 It has roughly the same design, with a massive segment containing its eyepiece and a hard plastic halo surrounded in thick padding. It’s fairly lightweight, all things considered, but it’s a pretty light redesign for a device that already felt a little chunky.
I was able to play Horizon Call of the Mountain for three hours straight without feeling a bit of discomfort.
Despite that initial disappointment with its size, all of its little improvements are much needed across the board. That’s most apparent in the mechanisms for fitting it on one’s head and adjusting it. I could never really get a clear picture out of the first PSVR and would always find myself fiddling with it while playing. The PSVR2 puts a lot of work into solving that problem with a three-step system. A button on the eyepiece pulls back the headband to make it easier to place on my head. I then press a second button on the back to loosen the headband and properly fit it and push the eyepiece back in place when I’m done. From there, I can turn a dial on the back of the headband to get the tightness just right, which is much easier to control than the hard wheel of the previous model.
While I struggled to get the right fit at first, I quickly realized I was overthinking it due to how cumbersome previous devices were. Once I found the right position, I found that the headset was exceptionally easy to put on and keep on. What surprised me most is how comfortable it is once it’s there. The padding around the headband is quite soft, though it does still leave a bit of “VR face” on my forehead (though worse are the marks on my nose, which can look particularly nasty if I’m locking it in too hard). Even so, I was able to play Horizon Call of the Mountain for three hours straight without feeling a bit of discomfort. By comparison, I often have to tap out from my Meta Quest 2 after an hour due to how much it feels like it’s squeezing my brain out of my head.
PSVR2 goes the extra mile in a few other small areas, which I quickly grew to appreciate. A dial on the eyepiece allows me to adjust the lens distance on the fly, which does wonders for clarity. With the first PSVR, I’d have to struggle to find a balance between the clearest image and the most comfortable fit. I no longer have to do that with PSVR2. Once I find my most natural position, the lens tool makes sure I don’t have to compromise.
Image used with permission by copyright holder As far as iterations go, I’m also pleased with how Sony has changed up its audio. The original model had built-in earbuds that were always attached to the headset. They could be docked to the sides when not in use, but I often found them popping out, which led to some unsanitary situations. That same approach is still present here, but Sony has made the earbud unit removable this time. The buds now sit on a thin ring unit that can be attached underneath the headset through a 3.5mm jack. When in, they function just like on the first headset. If I don’t want to use them, however, I can take the unit off entirely and use my own headphones or none at all.
Audio is the one area where I start to notice how behind the curve (or just on the edge of it) Sony is, which becomes a bit of a running theme the more I test. The headset doesn’t have any form of built-in audio, unlike the Quest 2. While that’s certainly not a deal breaker, it does reinforce the idea that PSVR2 isn’t necessarily keeping pace with the wider tech landscape and is operating in Sony’s own VR vacuum. It’s a step forward for PlayStation owners, but not necessarily VR as a whole.
Setup That dynamic is present in the system’s setup process. If you’ve only used PSVR to access virtual reality at this point, the new version will feel like a sigh of relief. While the old headset connected to PS4 via a complicated processing unit and multiple cables, PSVR2 is a one wire system. Plug it into the PS5’s USB-C port and that’s it. Considering that I skipped various PSVR games over the years because I just didn’t feel like dealing with all the wires, the new system is a godsend when it comes to ease.
Going back to a wired connection feels a little restrictive, but I’m ultimately not too bothered by it.
Of course, the downside is that it’s still a tethered connection in a world where wireless is gaining ground. Over the past few years, I’ve come to love the freedom of the Quest 2, as it allowed me to freely move around my larger bedroom to play games like Half-Life: Alyx (I sideloaded it to get it working wirelessly, and it’s the best gaming decision I’ve ever made). Going back to a wired connection feels a little restrictive, but I’m ultimately not too bothered by it. Ultimately, the headset is powered by the PS5, so some sort of connection was needed. The fact that Sony made that setup so easy makes me willing to live with it — especially with the extra comfort.
One area where Sony does keep up with competitors is via a dedicated passthrough button right next to the system’s power button. At any time, I can press this to see my real surroundings in black-and-white. That feature is a major improvement for Sony’s VR as it makes it much easier to figure out where I am when I’ve suddenly wandered out of my designated play area, or when I’m trying to make sure my cat doesn’t get in my range of movement when I’m least expecting it. It’s a much-needed technical addition that makes sure PSVR2 doesn’t feel entirely out of step with where the tech is moving.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Sony has also improved how users create play areas, further taking notes from its peers. When I first set up the headset, creating a very quick play area, I found myself bouncing out of bounds frequently. I was frustrated for a moment, until I realized I could freely edit that area at any time. By using the controllers to literally draw a boundary around my living room with passthrough tech, I could sketch out a much bigger area. Since then, I haven’t bumped up against the edge of the play area at all, keeping me immersed. It’s incredibly simple and reduces another disruption that can cut into VR’s immersive magic trick.
Controllers and feedback The biggest change here is how the device handles controls. Previously, the PSVR supported the standard PS4 controller in most games, as well as Sony’s Wiimote-esque Move controllers. Sony has simplified matters here by bundling its new Sense controllers in with every headset, and they act as the platform’s sole control scheme. Sony basically splits its DualSense in half here, putting one side of it in each hand. Each controller has its own trigger, bumper, joystick, home button, and two face buttons. The left includes the standard PlayStation share button, while the right has a menu button, which can be held down to recenter the screen. All of that is surrounded in a protective dome to stop players from accidentally punching a wall or their own face.
Having two free hands makes much more sense in VR … The design here once again takes cues from devices like the Quest 2 — and that’s mostly for the best. Having two free hands makes much more sense in VR, and I’m happy to be rid of the Move controllers with their inconsistent tracking. By comparison, the Sense controllers function with way fewer hitches thanks to the four cameras on the front of the headset. They also conform to my hands very naturally and are so lightweight that I don’t feel strain when tossing them around in games like Altair Breaker.
What Sony really brings to the table here is its unique DualSense tech , which makes its way into each controller. Both feature haptic feedback and adaptive triggers, which are a great fit for the immersive nature of VR. Almost every benefit I’ve mentioned so far comes together in Kayak VR: Mirage of all games. In that title, the Senses are used to control a kayak paddle. Tracking is incredibly accurate here, with the paddle precisely moving to my movements and even detecting the speed and depth of my swings accurately. Each time I drip a paddle into the water, I get a nice hit of haptic feedback that simulates the feeling of an object dipping into water. It’s an excellent sensation, allowing me to truly get lost in the experience.
Image used with permission by copyright holder PSVR2 does include some additional feedback, as well with a bit of vibration in the headset proper, which adds a nice extra touch. The main place I noticed it was in Gran Turismo 7 , as my headset would rumble when I crashed into a wall. More impactful, though still subtle, is its eye-tracking, which users will calibrate when they set up the device. That allows me to easily navigate through menu options in some games by looking at them, for instance. Those extra layers work in tandem with the Senses to really keep players in the zone.
The only issue here is battery life. My Sense controllers tend to drain in four or five hours, which feels short — granted, I can’t imagine it’s healthy to spend much more time than that in VR. I do appreciate, though, that the Sense controllers are easy to charge via USB-C. That gives them a big advantage over my Quest 2 controllers, which eat batteries like it’s their job. Those who want to spend the extra $50 can also buy a handy recharging mat that makes the process easier (though I did experience some issues with controllers not locking into place as easily as I’d hoped, leading to some unexpected charge fails).
I’ll offer one more nitpick here: these things are weirdly difficult to grab on to by touch alone. When I’m trying to pick them up while in VR, I end up fumbling around the round structure and struggling to find the correct grip. It doesn’t help that the safety straps come out from the inside of the hand guard rather than the edge of it. That means that I’ll often feel them popping out of the wrong side of the controller, which ends up confusing me as I grip the wrong side. Thankfully, the passthrough button alleviates that, but the design feels just slightly off here.
Specs Where PSVR2 really works to justify its price point is in its impressive specs. While the headset’s design sticks close to its predecessor, the guts position it as a truly “next-generation” device. The panel resolution here is 2000 x 2040 per eye, up from PSVR’s 1920 x 1080. That makes a major difference. Where Sony’s last headset was grainy and low-res, its new one offers an incredibly clear image that beats the Quest 2.
Sony makes sure that it doesn’t go to waste either by using an OLED display that looks fantastic, with refresh rates up to 120Hz. On top of that, the headset has a particularly impressive field of view (FOV) at approximately 110 degrees. That blows away most headsets within its price range, including the Quest 2 with its 89 degree FOV.
Digital Trends Of course, Sony’s real advantage here is the PS5. Since the headset runs off the console , that opens the door for some truly high-end experiences. I noticed the difference when I played Horizon Call of the Mountain followed by a series of ports that weren’t originally made for PSVR2. The former is one of the best-looking VR games I’ve seen in the tech’s life span, with vast landscapes, meticulously detailed enemies, and a wide range of vibrant colors.
Gran Turismo 7 ‘s VR view is similarly impressive, as little is lost when I switch between the headset and my TV. The TV image seems a little more detailed and with stronger contrast, but the VR view doesn’t feel like much of a compromise. When games are using the system to its full capabilities, Sony proves why it’s in a unique position to create a high-end consumer headset.
I wish I could say more about the specs here, but the reality is that I haven’t had many opportunities to see what the device can do. That speaks to a more existential problem that haunts PSVR2 right now.
Software Initial gaming hardware reviews can be difficult because you’re always reviewing from a limited selection of launch games. When we reviewed the Xbox Series X , we initially called it a “sports car with no gas” due to its weak launch lineup that mostly relied on ports — a problem that’s been improved upon, but not entirely rectified in two years. PSVR2 finds itself in a very similar situation at launch, but I’m much less confident about how well it’ll overcome its software woes.
The launch lineup for PSVR2 creates another weird situation that’s dependent on the user’s previous familiarity with VR. If you’re entirely new to the tech, as I figure many people will be, there’s a lot to dig into. In addition to Horizon Call of the Mountain and Gran Turismo 7 VR support at launch, the headset is getting a whole host of VR hits. Games like Moss: Book 2 , What the Bat? , Demeo , and more help round out its lineup and make sure that there’s a lot for newcomers to dig into.
For perhaps the first time in PlayStation’s hardware career, Sony created a piece of tech that’s operating at a disadvantage.
If you’re looking for new games built for PSVR2, though, that’s a different story. During my testing, I struggled to find much that I couldn’t (or hadn’t already) played on Meta Quest 2 or even the original PSVR.
Gran Turismo 7 is the most fun exclusive you can find at launch, but it’s not so much a full-fledged VR game as an added camera option. The VR view only triggers in the middle of a race’s starting countdown; the rest of the game just displays on a flat screen within the headset. Still, I imagine it’ll be the primary way I play the game from now on as it makes the driving simulator feel that much more realistic.
Other than that, the exclusive options are underwhelming.
Horizon Call of the Mountain is a solid tech test, but I was a little underwhelmed with it as a standalone game. It’s not quite the big first-party launch game I was expecting, as it can’t quite find a balance between the limitations of VR gaming and Sony’s cinematic ambitions for its biggest franchises. As a first voyage, it leaves me a little nervous that Sony still hasn’t grasped what kinds of games work best in VR.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I wouldn’t be surprised if The Last of Us or God of War gets a similar treatment to Horizon down the line, but I can’t say I’m excited about that idea right now. The platform just doesn’t have a Half-Life: Alyx , or even an Astro Bot: Rescue Mission , that really capitalizes on the device at the moment. And what’s even more of a problem is that we don’t even know what’s next. Sony says over 100 games are in development for the platform, but we have no idea what the next exclusive to watch for is. That’s not a great feeling to have when dropping $550 on a game system.
Outside of Horizon, my initial tests were far more scattershot. I had trouble getting into the enhanced edition of Star Wars: Tales from the Galaxy’s Edge , which felt like a relic next to a more modern game. Comparatively simplistic visuals and systems, as well as issues setting a proper height, had me feeling like I was running an original Xbox game on an Xbox One. I had similar reactions when popping into other titles. Sony previously spotlighted anime sword-fighting game Altair Breaker in a blog post, but I was disappointed to find a somewhat bare-bones hack and slash. The same was true of games like Cities: VR and Kayak VR: Mirage , two perfectly fine virtual toys that don’t offer much depth. None of these games give me a sense of the headset’s power or potential, as anything worth playing runs on other headsets already.
Image used with permission by copyright holder I know this is going to change — or at least, I’m assuming it will, in good faith. More complex, fulfilling games will come to PSVR2 over the course of its life span as developers get more time to work with the hardware. The way the launch was handled here, though, tells me that I shouldn’t expect a wealth of experiences like that any time soon. If even Sony is struggling to crack what a big, blockbuster VR game looks like at this stage, I imagine it’s going to be slim pickings when it comes to system-selling exclusives. I expect the bulk of its best games to be cross-platform ones that one could play on the cheaper and wire-free Meta Quest 2.
All of that leaves PSVR2 in a very awkward space that Sony isn’t used to with its PlayStation brand. For perhaps the first time in the company’s hardware career, it created a piece of tech that’s operating at a disadvantage. Even the first PSVR headset had an edge on the competition due to its low price point and a consumer-friendly strategy that didn’t exist at the time. Its successor doesn’t have those same factors in its corner, especially considering that it costs more than the more appealing console that powers it. Not only that, but it’s strictly a gaming device, whereas something like a Meta headset can do much more for much less.
The PSVR2’s power, clear display, and immersive controls are truly exciting, but none of those are going to matter if there aren’t new killer apps to make great use of it. That’s the challenge Sony has ahead as it doubles down on VR. It created a great headset I’ll be thrilled to strap into any time, unlike the company’s previous model. I’m just left with the sense that I’ll be cleaning a lot of dust off it between uses.
Editors' Recommendations The best games on PlayStation Plus, Extra, and Premium Best PlayStation deals: PS5, controllers, headsets on sale PlayStation Portal: release date, price, specs, and more Sony’s cloud handheld, the PlayStation Portal, will only stream certain games Does PlayStation 5 have a web browser? Product Reviews Sony Sony PlayStation Virtual Reality VR Headset and Accessory Reviews Gaming It's at around this point in a console's life cycle that companies like to release a new, slim model to reinvigorate sales, cut costs, and experiment with a new design. Sony has been trimming down its home consoles since the PS2, with each home console getting a slimmer, sometimes cheaper replacement a few years after launch. We're closing in on the PlayStation 5's third birthday and rumors abound about both a PS5 Pro and a PS5 Slim model, and yet Sony's remained tight-lipped about any iterations on the base unit. Still, some of these rumors and potential leaks may hold some weight and are fun to follow regardless to see how accurate they end up being.
Will there be a PS5 Slim? Here's what we know Before getting into the rumors and leaks, know that until Sony itself confirms the existence of a PS5 Slim, everything that follows is speculative and should be taken as such.
The first rumors of a new PS5 model centered around a diskless version that could be paired with a detachable disk drive you could buy separately in another step away from physical media. This was speculated to be coming out sometime in fall 2023, but has been rolled into the idea of the PS5 Slim. This potentially imminent release date also lines up with statements Microsoft made about a new PS5 Slim releasing this year for $400 during the Federal Trace Commission (FTC) hearing.
Gaming Roguelike FPS Synapse is now available on PlayStation VR2 and tasks players with fighting off horde after horde of enemies within the mindscape of a rogue agent. The crux of Synapse’s progression comes from challenges players can complete mid-run. After a run ends, players are rewarded with a currency called Insight for each challenge that they completed. This insight can then be spent on upgrades in a skill tree, which make the player more powerful with each subsequent run.
That said, the number of options players have to choose from can be overwhelming at the start of the game. There are three different skill trees with multiple upgrade paths within them: Tactition, Assassin, and Survivor. While all of the upgrades will give you a boost of some sort, there is one upgrade in each of the categories that players should try to unlock as quickly as they can after they start playing Synapse. If you do pick up this PSVR2 game, these are the upgrades you should be unlocking as soon as possible.
Brutal Mind Gaming During the May 2023 PlayStation Showcase, PlayStation CEO Jim Ryan revealed Project Q. It's a new handheld streaming device that will allow you to stream any game from your PlayStation 5 console using its remote play function or Wi-Fi.
It doesn't have an official name yet, so it's known internally as Project Q. What we do know is that it has an 8-inch HD screen, plus all of the buttons and features of a DualSense wireless controller.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
