Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Guides How to use PS5 voice commands By Jesse Lennox Close Every new console generation is another step forward in accessibility. Whether that be through innovations in games that allow players to customize the experience to their own preferences, new controllers, or even the hardware itself. While the PlayStation 5 launched with only a handful of new features compared to its predecessor , Sony has continuously updated it with functionality to make it easier and more convenient to control its most powerful system yet.
How to set up voice commands Voice command settings All voice commands One extremely handy and highly requested feature the PS5 was given is voice commands. These allow you to navigate and control a majority of your console’s functions (outside of actually playing games, of course) without having to pick up a controller. This system can be both more convenient and intuitive for people, especially if you’re unfamiliar with navigating the PS5 UI. You do need to do a few things to get this system up and running, and then know what exactly you can do with it before laying back and ordering your PS5 around with nothing but your voice. Here’s a full voice command guide to get you going.
How to set up voice commands Image used with permission by copyright holder Setting up voice commands isn’t too hard, but does require a few specific steps that you won’t accidentally stumble upon, and aren’t pointed out to you anywhere by the system itself. To set it up, simply start up your PS5 and go to the Settings menu. From here, simply select Voice Command and toggle it to be enabled.
PS Plus is getting an underrated RPG cult classic this month The best PS5 exclusives The new 1TB PS5 has more usable storage space than the Xbox Series X You should also make sure that the Listen for “Hey PlayStation!” toggle is enabled as well. This is the phrase your PS5 will listen for to start accepting voice commands.
While the PS5 doesn’t come with a packed-in microphone of any kind, there is a built-in microphone in your DualSense that will function for your voice command needs. Just make sure the microphone is turned on by pressing the small button in the bottom center of your controller between the analog sticks.
Voice command settings There are several other voice command settings in this menu you can tweak to customize your experience a bit. Unfortunately, you can’t add new voice commands for functions it doesn’t already cover, but you can at least make it a bit more convenient.
Speech Speed and Speech Volume simply adjust how fast and loud the PS5 will respond to your voice commands.
Response Timeout might be one you want to set above normal since it will dictate how long you have to say a correct command after activating voice commands by saying “Hey PlayStation!” before it assumes you no longer want to make a command and stops listening. In the normal setting, you have four seconds to deliver a command before it stops listening.
One important setting that, for whatever reason, is not listed on this screen is the list of commands. The list of commands, which we detail below, can all be found simply by saying, “Hey, PlayStation. Help.” This is a great and easy way to remind yourself of what you need to say to do different things or remind yourself of things you forgot you could do.
All voice commands Image used with permission by copyright holder These are all the current voice commands you can use with your PS5. Again, if you ever forget any commands, simply say “Hey, PlayStation. Help” and your console will present the full list for you as well.
Again, you must say, “Hey, PlayStation!” before using any of the following voice commands or you’ll just be talking to yourself.
Open game/app To start up any game or app you have installed on your PS5, just say, “Open X” with X of course being the name of either the game or app you want to start. In the event that you want to play a game in a series, or if two names sound similar, your PS5 will present you with a list of options based on what you said. When this happens, the different options will be numbered. To pick which one is correct, just say “Number One” or whichever number is the choice you want. Alternatively, if none of the options are correct, you can say “Show more” to get more options or try again.
You can also say “Go to X” to accomplish the same thing.
Find a game or app If you want to search either your library or the PlayStation store for an item, simply say “Find X” or “Search X”. This will bring up a list of options related to the game or app you’re searching for.
Media controls While the other options are great for quickly moving through the menus to get into the game or app you want, voice commands really shine when you’re using the PS5 for media purposes. If you’re watching a movie, TV show, or listening to music, you have a number of voice commands at your disposal that are far more convenient to use than navigating with a controller. Each one is self-explanatory, so we’ll simply list them here: Pause Resume Rewind Fast forward Next Previous Game Capture If you experience a moment you want to capture while playing a game, there are several voice commands you can use to make it easier: Capture that! – This will save a clip of your recent gameplay at your system’s default capture duration.
Capture the last five minutes – This will record the previous five minutes of gameplay.
Start recording – This will begin a recording session.
Stop recording – This will end your recording session and save the clip.
For now at least, these are all the available voice commands you can use on the PS5. While Sony hasn’t confirmed it, there is a possibility that more will be added in future updates. If more are added, we will update this article to include them.
Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music The best PS5 controllers for 2023 The PS5 games with the best graphics The best PS5 games for 2023 The best games on PlayStation Plus, Extra, and Premium Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Gaming The PlayStation 5 has been out for some time now, and its reception has been mostly positive. It includes lots of quality-of-life improvements over its predecessor, the PlayStation 4, such as faster load times, a solid-state drive (SSD) instead of a regular hard disk drive (HDD), and an improved controller in the form of the new DualSense. However, a console is only as good as the games available on it, and thankfully, the PS5 has you covered on that front as well.
While the machine already has a worthy library of great PS5 games, there are even more to look forward to, with some releasing as soon as this month, while others are still years away. In the video game world, it's not uncommon to be aware of games that are still several years out from release. It's also normal for a new game to be revealed and launched within just a couple of months. In this comprehensive list, we'll go through the major PS5 releases scheduled for 2023 and speculate on future games.
Gaming The new, slimmer PS5 and PS5 Digital Edition models are starting to ship out ahead of their intended release in November, and the fine print on the back of the box revealed something important but previously unknown about the Ultra HD Blu-ray Disc Drive that players can attach to the console: it requires an internet connection.
Sony revealed these new versions of the PS5 earlier this month, and one of the biggest visual changes is that instead of having a single console cover on each side, the console now has four separate cover panels. The new PS5 Digital Edition obviously can't play physical media by default, but Sony will allow people to remove one of the cover panels and replace it with an Ultra HD Blu-ray Disc Drive like they would when swapping parts on gaming PCs. This back-of-the-box fine print revealed that this swapping process will require an internet connection actually work, though.
Gaming In the decades that the character of Spider-Man has existed, through comics, TV shows, games, and movies, he's gone through quite a few suits. Spider-Man 2 keeps the tradition alive by not only giving him a new suit to try out, but dozens and dozens of older ones to let you play as your favorite version of the webslinger. Oh, and did we mention Miles has his own extensive set of suits as well? Just like the first game, you won't be handed the keys to the wardrobe for free. Each suit not only needs to be unlocked but also crafted using City and Hero Tokens, as well as Tech parts to get access to the additional styles most suits have. If you're itching to dress up as the Spider-Man of your dreams as soon as you can, here is every suit in Spider-Man 2 and how you unlock them.
Note: Some suits are unlocked via story progress and could be considered spoilers. You have been warned.
All suits in Spider-Man 2 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
