Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Guides PS5 vs. PS5 Digital Edition By Jesse Lennox Close A new generation of consoles is upon us, and for the first time, we are given two distinct versions of each company’s newest hardware. Microsoft has their Xbox Series X and S models , which they have been hard at work explaining the differences in, while Sony has the standard PlayStation 5 and the PS5 Digital Edition.
PS5 vs. PS5 Digital Edition differences PS5 vs. PS5 Digital Edition: Which to buy? While there are a few obvious differences between the two, some are a bit more subtle. The contrast isn’t nearly as extreme as it is with the two Xbox models, but there are some key differences you will want to know about before deciding between the PS5 and PS5 Digital Edition. We’ve broken down each version of the console below.
See more Best PS5 games Best PS5 controllers PS5 vs. Xbox Series X PS5 vs. PS5 Digital Edition differences Image used with permission by copyright holder Price Let’s start with the two most obvious differences between the two versions of the PS5 before getting into the more technical stuff. First off, the price. The standard PS5 will set you back $499, while the Digital Edition is a full $100 cheaper at $399. That alone can make the Digital Edition very enticing for a lot of gamers on a budget. If you are shopping on a budget, check out the best Black Friday PlayStation deals we found.
Where to find planes in Fortnite OG The best PS5 controllers for 2023 The PS5 games with the best graphics The disk drive After the price, the next difference you’ll be able to spot just by looking at the two consoles side by side is the fact that the Digital Edition, appropriately enough, is missing a disk drive. Part of the reason this version can be that much cheaper than the standard console is the fact that it doesn’t have any way to play disk-based physical media of any kind. That means you can’t purchase any games for the system physically or take advantage of it as a DVD or 4k Blu-ray player. If you’re eyeing the Digital Edition, you need to make sure you’re fully committed to an all-digital library going forward.
The lack of a disk drive also cuts the Digital Edition’s value for some players by physically limited to only allowing digital games to be backward compatible. So, if you’ve got a nice library of PS4 games on disk, you’ll need to hang on to that old console if you want to revisit them. That could be extra painful considering how much of a boost even unoptimized PS4 games get just by being played in a PS5.
Specs This is where things might get a little complex, but thankfully, Sony has made it very easy to understand what the power differences between these two versions are. Both systems, Digital and standard, have an eight-core AMD Zen 2-based CPU running at 3.5GHz, a custom AMD RDNA 2 GPU with 10.28 teraflops and 36 compute units running at 2.23GHz, 16GB of RAM , and their impressive 825GP solid-state drive. If you don’t understand what even half of those things are, don’t fret. The point is that both systems, internally speaking, are exactly the same. No game will run any better or worse because of which console you own.
PS5 vs. PS5 Digital Edition: Which to buy? There are a number of reasons why one version of the PS5 would be a better fit for you, and thankfully, the decision won’t cost you in terms of what’s most important.
Games will be just as good on one console as the other, so there’s no need to fear buying a worse product. That being said, here are a few things that you should consider before plunking down your hard-earned cash on either of these next-gen consoles.
PS5 Digital Edition Sony If you’re feeling the allure of that $100 price drop, you’re not alone. But are you actually ready to commit to a console with no disk drive? If you’ve already jumped on the all-digital bandwagon, then you may not have many physical games you would want to play on your PS5 — but if you have a shelf lined with games, you might think twice. Going all-digital means you either need to be okay with hanging on to your PS4 to play those old games or just making a clean cut and going full force into the next gen. Remember that this applies to more than just your games. If you’re a Blu-ray collector, you won’t be able to rely on this console as your media player going forward.
The Digital Edition is going to require a speedy and reliable internet connection, preferably without any data caps. Every game you purchase for it will need to be downloaded through that connection, and with games getting up to 100GB and more in size, that could be a long wait if you don’t have the internet speed to handle it. Plus, you also need to consider space more than ever. Sony has confirmed that you will be able to expand your PS5 ’s storage space sometime after launch, but we don’t know how expensive that will be. That leaves you with just 825GB of space for games. Again, if your speeds are up to it, you can always delete and redownload what you need, but it is worth considering if you like swapping between a lot of big games.
The market for used games has no doubt been shrinking but it hasn’t gone away completely , and many gamers depend on those used discounts or even borrowing games from friends to keep up with their favorite games. By going all-digital, you’re accepting whatever price the publishers want to charge you, which has already gone up for next-gen games. Yes, PSN sales are more common and can be good value, but if you’re on a budget, you could be waiting a long time for that one game you have your eye on to see a price drop, if ever.
And it should be at least mentioned that the design of the Digital Edition is a bit more appealing to some people. We don’t put too much stock in the minor difference the lack of a disk drive makes in the console — it’s going to be out of sight for most people anyway — but it is a difference you might care about.
Standard PS5 Image used with permission by copyright holder For the most part, you can take all the disadvantages of the Digital Edition and just say the opposite about the standard PS5 , with the caveat of having a bigger price tag. That’s all true, but there are some more reasons to lean toward the disk-powered version.
If you’re a collector, and by that we mean both of games themselves as well as the fancy limited editions that come out, you may end up having to buy a game twice if you want all that cool physical media but can’t actually play the game that comes with it all. It may turn out that future limited editions will have the option of coming with a download code, but until that becomes a standard, you will be much safer having a disk drive handy.
The last major point for the regular PS5 is that there’s just no downside if you can afford it. You get all the bells and whistles the PS5 has to offer, plus the ability to carry forward your old library of PS4 games. You can keep it as your media center for DVD and Blu-rays, and you have the option to buy physical or digital depending on your preference or price. Between not needing to worry as much about storage space and having the option to buy or trade games, you may end up saving more than that $100 premium before you know it.
Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music PS Plus is getting an underrated RPG cult classic this month The best PS5 exclusives The new 1TB PS5 has more usable storage space than the Xbox Series X The best PS5 games for 2023 Buying Guides Buying Guides Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Gaming PlayStation Plus has gone through several iterations and changes since it was first introduced. Originally, the service wasn't required for online play at all and rewarded subscribers with extra discounts and free monthly games. Once the PlayStation 4 generation began, it was required for online play, but still offered those same benefits.
Now, PS Plus is divided into three different tiers of subscriptions. The basic tier, PS Plus Essential, still gets three games per month added, while the Extra and Premium tiers will have a varying number of games added to their catalogs. With hundreds of games already and more coming and going all the time, even the most dedicated gamer won't be able to play everything on offer. To help you get the most bang for your buck, and so that no hidden gems fly under your radar, here are all the best games to play on PS Plus Essential, Extra, and Premium right now.
Best PS Plus Essential games As is usually the case, everyone with the lowest tier of PS Plus gets three games this month, two with PlayStation 5 versions and one with a PS4 version. Here's what you can play this month: Gaming The PlayStation 5 has been out for some time now, and its reception has been mostly positive. It includes lots of quality-of-life improvements over its predecessor, the PlayStation 4, such as faster load times, a solid-state drive (SSD) instead of a regular hard disk drive (HDD), and an improved controller in the form of the new DualSense. However, a console is only as good as the games available on it, and thankfully, the PS5 has you covered on that front as well.
While the machine already has a worthy library of great PS5 games, there are even more to look forward to, with some releasing as soon as this month, while others are still years away. In the video game world, it's not uncommon to be aware of games that are still several years out from release. It's also normal for a new game to be revealed and launched within just a couple of months. In this comprehensive list, we'll go through the major PS5 releases scheduled for 2023 and speculate on future games.
Gaming The new, slimmer PS5 and PS5 Digital Edition models are starting to ship out ahead of their intended release in November, and the fine print on the back of the box revealed something important but previously unknown about the Ultra HD Blu-ray Disc Drive that players can attach to the console: it requires an internet connection.
Sony revealed these new versions of the PS5 earlier this month, and one of the biggest visual changes is that instead of having a single console cover on each side, the console now has four separate cover panels. The new PS5 Digital Edition obviously can't play physical media by default, but Sony will allow people to remove one of the cover panels and replace it with an Ultra HD Blu-ray Disc Drive like they would when swapping parts on gaming PCs. This back-of-the-box fine print revealed that this swapping process will require an internet connection actually work, though.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
