Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Guides News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Redfall: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more By Jon Bitner Close Following its E3 2021 reveal, Microsoft has ramped up the marketing for Redfall , a new cooperative shooter from Arkane Austin, the team behind 2017’s Prey.
 But Redfall aims to be something completely different from the studio’s past game, with a new vampire theme set on the fictional island of Redfall, Massachusetts. But what exactly is Redfall , how will it play, and when will it launch? Release date Platforms Trailers Gameplay Multiplayer Pre-order Below is everything you need to know about the upcoming cooperative FPS, Redfall.
Further reading The best games on Xbox Game Pass for 2022 The best Xbox Series X games for 2022 The best FPS games for Xbox Series X Release date Image used with permission by copyright holder Redfall is gearing up to launch on May 2, 2023. It was initially supposed to come out in the summer of 2022, but was delayed to the first half of 2023 before getting its new release date. Given just how common delays are, it’s unclear if Redfall will stick to its May 2 release date, but our fingers are crossed.
Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League: release date, trailers, gameplay, and more Marathon: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more Spider-Man 2 preload guide: release time, file size, and preorder Platforms Image used with permission by copyright holder Since Arkane Studios falls under the Bethesda umbrella, which is now owned by Microsoft, it should come as no surprise that Redfall is exclusive to Xbox. It will come to Xbox Series X /S and PC, and will, of course, be available on Xbox Game Pass day one. It’s unlikely the game will come to PlayStation or Nintendo, given that it’s a first-party Microsoft product.
Trailers Microsoft has practically released a new Redfall trailer at every one of its digital showcases since the game’s reveal, so there’s plenty to watch. We won’t list them all here, but just the main ones you should be aware of.
Redfall was announced at E3 2021 with a CGI trailer. It didn’t show off much, but it gave a look at its main characters, along with some of the enemies you’ll be up against.
Then, during the Xbox and Bethesda Games Showcase 2022, we were treated to our first bit of gameplay. We see each of the four main characters in action, along with an assortment of enemies, new locations, and a few of the different weapons you’ll be able to unlock as you play.
The most recent trailer doubles down on gameplay, giving us a look at the world, characters, and many of the combat scenarios you’ll get thrown into in Redfall.
Gameplay Arkane bills Redfall as an open-world co-op shooter. That sounds a lot like Left 4 Dead , and it even has a motley cast of characters to rival those of the iconic shooter. So far, we’ve seen four big character reveals, each with their own background, skills, and personality.
Devinder Crousley : A paranormal investigator and amateur cryptozoologist, Crousley wants to figure out what happened to Redfall and expose the truth to the world.
Layla Ellison: After studying biomedical engineering at Redfall Technical University, Ellison interned at Aevum Therapeutics. Something apparently went wrong at the facility, although all she remembers is waking up with telekinetic powers.
Remi de la Rosa: A combat engineer with a brilliant mind, Remi de la Rosa is accompanied by Bribon — her robotic ally — as she tries to save the town of Redfall.
Jacob Boyer: An ex-military sharpshooter, Boyer is in Redfall as part of a private security operation. He’s now got a “mysterious vampiric eye” and commands a spectral raven that does his every bidding.
Keep in mind, you cannot change your character after starting a particular campaign. If you want to play as a new character, you’ll have to start a different campain.
Redfall is an RPG adventure, with players facing off “against a legion of vampires that have overtaken the once-quaint island town of Redfall.
” The game is said to take cues from other titles in the Arkane roster — such as Prey and Dishonored — so it’ll be curious to see how your actions shape the world around you and impact the moment-to-moment combat.
As far as actual gameplay, Redfall is an FPS, although each character brings their own set of unique skills and gear to the battle. These will be customizable, as you’ll find ways to upgrade them as you play through each round. You’ll be up against vampires that are the result of a science experiment gone wrong, with some of them taking on various superpowers. For example, the Angler — seen in one of the trailers — uses a psychic harpoon to pull players away from their group, leaving them open to subsequent attacks.
Like other titles from Arkane, you’re free to engage in combat as you see fit. Trailers showed off fast-paced, aggressive action and sneaky stealth tactics to avoid conflicts altogether. You’ll also explore lighthouses, dilapidated diners, movie theaters, and even tourist traps such as festival grounds and local shops within the town of Redfall.
Arkane said that each round will play out differently than the last, and the team is very much focused on building a world you’ll want to explore. If Prey and Dishonored are anything to go by, expect a world brimming with mysteries to uncover and a lore book that’s deceptively deep.
As featured on the game’s FAQ , it was revealed that Redfall will require a persistent internet connection to play the single-player mode, which did not sit well with the community.
Multiplayer Image used with permission by copyright holder While Redfall will be playable solo (without bots), it’s truly designed for co-op, with up to four-player parties supported. Each player can select one of the four characters listed above to tackle missions, while also earning XP and progression for them along the way. As explained during an IGN interview , only the host’s mission progress will save, meaning players who have joined will have to make their own story progress separately. Though, all your gear and XP remain persistent regardless of whether you’re the host or not. It’s also important to note that there can be multiple of the same character within a particular party, which alleviates any frustrations with being locked out of your favorite vampire hunter.
Pre-order Redfall is finally available to pre-order and there are a couple of versions you should be aware of.
The Standard Edition costs $70 and includes a copy of the game, along with the following bonuses for pre-ordering: Grim Tide Shotgun Polar Vortex Multi-Weapon Skin Blood Ravager Stake Weapon Attachment The Bite Back version, on the other hand, costs $100 but includes a copy of the game and the aforementioned pre-order bonuses, along with the following: Hero Pass with Two Future Heroes Laser Beam Multi-Weapon Skin Tactical Knife Stake Weapon Attachment Northern Expedition Devinder Outfit Eyes in the Dark Jacob Outfit War Clothes Layla Outfit Engineer Volunteer Remi Outfit Keep in mind, the Game Pass version is only the Standard Edition, so if you want the extra goodies, you’ll have to spend some cash.
Editors' Recommendations Hollow Knight: Silksong: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more GTA 6: release date speculation, trailer, news, rumors, and more RoboCop: Rogue City: release date speculation, trailers, gameplay, and more Haunted Chocolatier: release date speculation, news, trailer, and more Major Redfall patch adds 60 fps performance mode, a stealth overhaul, and more Microsoft Xbox Gaming After the Sim City franchise faded away, gamers were left with few options when it came to city-building simulations. That changed when Cities: Skylines came out. The first game was a smash hit, filling the void left by the pioneer of the genre - and in many ways even surpassing it. However, that game came out in 2015, and even the numerous updates and DLC packs added to the game could only extend its life so long. Now, Cities: Skylines 2 has been officially revealed and fans have already built up their hopes as high as skyscrapers. Have the developers designed the perfect system for this sequel to thrive and grow? Let's take a bird's-eye view and see what groundwork has been laid for Cities: Skylines 2.
Release date Cities: Skylines 2 will be fully constructed and ready to play on October 24, 2023 for PC, however, the console versions of the game have been delayed to sometime in spring 2024.
Platforms Gaming The Dishonored series has always been a critical darling and it has cultivated a small, but passionate fanbase. The original game got some DLC, a sequel in Dishonored 2, and one last entry called Death of the Outsider in 2017, but since then the franchise has remained dormant. The studio's latest game, Deathloop, shares some DNA with Dishonored, but is certainly its own beast. However, since the success of that new IP far exceeded anything Dishonored had achieved, many fans felt we'd never return to Dunwall to see the conclusion of the story. Thanks to the recent leak of some court documents related to the Activision purchase by Xbox, which owns Dishonored publisher Bethesda, new hope has appeared for the existence of Dishonored 3.
Release window According to the leaked documents, which we should still take with skepticism until an official public statement is made, Dishonored 3 is currently planned for a "FY24E" release. FY24E is shorthand for Fiscal Year 2024, which runs between April 2024 and March 2025. Again, things are likely to change, if they haven't already, but this is at least a good starting point to predict the earliest we might see it.
Platforms Again, this is just speculation until the game is officially confirmed, but considering that Xbox owns publisher Bethesda, Dishonored 3 is almost certainly going to be an Xbox console exclusive with a PC port. It should also be available as a day one Game Pass title, as all Xbox first party titles are.
Trailers As mentioned, Dishonored 3 isn't even meant to be known about publicly yet, so no marketing exists for the game. All we have is the name.
Gameplay Gaming We all knew Final Fantasy 7 Remake was just the beginning, but had no idea how long we would have to wait for the next part, or even how many parts this incredibly ambitious project would end up spanning. Since fans have been begging Square Enix to remake what is quite possibly the most popular and most important JRPG of all time for years, there was obviously a lot of pressure on the studio to get it right. While there was plenty of skepticism regarding the first part changing so much about the core formula, once we had it in our hands, it became almost universally praised.
After Remake, there was next to no news on when Cloud and his ragtag team's adventure would continue. That is, not until the 25th anniversary of the original PlayStation 1 game, when Square Enix dropped a ton of info on us all at once. The biggest news was obviously the official reveal of Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth, the second part in what we now know to be a trilogy of titles. Since then, we've collected all the info drops as they've occurred. Here's everything we know about Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
