Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Reviews Sega Genesis Mini review: As good as you remember The Sega Genesis Mini is a spin dash to the glory days of 16-bit gaming By Steven Petite Close $80.00 Authentic design Huge library of games Clean, convenient menu system No rewind feature The Sega Genesis Mini is a success on numerous fronts. It far exceeds the build quality of the numerous third-party knockoffs that preceded it, artfully recreating the iconic hardware in pint-sized form. The Genesis Mini really is an authentic tribute to Sega’s heyday, and unboxing it transported me back to the mid-90s when I first received a Sega Genesis as a gift.
Honey, you shrunk my Sega The gang’s all here Charming and convenient Warranty Information Our Take In addition to looking and feeling the part, the Sega Genesis Mini features superb emulation and a towering library of games. This is a retro console that has appeal for both the dedicated Sega fan and the casual player who merely wants to relive their childhood with friends and family on the couch.
The Sega Genesis Mini 2 features an unreleased game by Sonic legend Takashi Iizuka The best Sega Genesis games of all time Sega Genesis Mini gets a huge price cut just in time for the holidays Honey, you shrunk my Sega Image used with permission by copyright holder I’m not going to apologize for that reference to Honey, I Shrunk the Kids.
 That amazingly silly movie released the same year the Genesis hit the market, so it feels appropriate. The Sega Genesis Mini is what you’d get if Wayne Szalinski pointed his shrink ray at your beloved Sega Genesis. Coming in at approximately 6.5″ x 5″, the Sega Genesis Mini is exactly what we’ve come to expect from these retro mini consoles.
This is as plug and play as it gets.
Designed to mirror the original North American model, the Sega Genesis Mini has an on/off toggle and operable white reset button. It probably would’ve been easier to just go with a normal button similar to the design of the second Genesis model, but Sega obviously wanted to make this a trip down nostalgia lane.
Even the features that are just for show are charmingly accurate to the original. It has a non-operable volume slider, miniature cartridge slot with a spring-loaded cover, and even the expansion port where the Sega CD and 32X add-ons would go.
Image used with permission by copyright holder The Genesis Mini hooks up to a TV via the included HDMI cord and gets its power from USB adapter. I was up and running about a minute after taking it out of the box. This is as plug and play as it gets.
You get a pair of three-button wired controllers with the Mini. Thankfully, these USB pads have six foot cords, so there’s probably no need for an extender. The three-button controllers are just about exact replicas of the originals. If I didn’t know Sega had just manufactured these, I would’ve thought they were extremely well-kept originals.
The Sega Genesis Mini has an extremely impressive lineup, both in quantity and quality.
The eight-directional pad is still better than a fair number of modern d-pads, while the A, B, and C buttons are as mushy and distinct as I remembered. I do wish Sega had opted for the updated six-button pad which had a better shape and overall feel, but I understand that wouldn’t have lined up with the console design. However, ahem, Retro-bit does have an officially licensed six-button controller for sale.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Controllers have come a long way since the ’90s. This isn’t a knock on Sega because the Nintendo and Super Nintendo controllers had the same problem, but it took console manufacturers longer than you’d expect to create a controller that’s comfortable for long play sessions. The Genesis controller has what is needed to play the included games, but if I had the option to sync up a modern gamepad, I definitely would.
The gang’s all here What’s a great mini console without great games? The Sega Genesis Mini has an extremely impressive lineup, both in quantity and quality. Getting dangerously close to the combined library size of the NES and SNES Classics , the Sega Genesis Mini features 42 games. 40 of them are Sega classics, while the once Genesis-bound Tetris and arcade shoot ’em up Darius sweeten the pot.
Streets of Rage 2 Image used with permission by copyright holder Here’s the full list of games, which includes many of the very best Sega Genesis games : Ecco the Dolphin Castlevania: Bloodlines Space Harrier II Shining Force Robotnik’s Mean Bean Machine ToeJam & Earl Comix Zone Sonic the Hedgehog Altered Beast Gunstar Heroes Castle of Illusion Starring Mickey Mouse World of Illusion Starring Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck Thunder Force III Super Fantasy Zone Shinobi III Streets of Rage 2 Earthworm Jim Sonic the Hedgehog 2 Contra: Hard Corps Landstalker Beyond Oasis Ghouls ‘n Ghosts Alex Kidd in the Enchanted Castle Golden Axe Phantasy Star IV Street Fighter II: Special Champion Edition Mega Man: The Wily Wars Sonic Spinball Vectorman Wonder Boy in Monster World Tetris Darius Road Rash II Virtua Fighter 2 Alisia Dragoon Columns Dynamite Headdy Kid Chameleon Light Crusader Monster World IV Eternal Champions Gunstar Heroes Image used with permission by copyright holder Officially licensed Genesis retro consoles have included some of Sega’s biggest hits, but they’ve never received such a wide variety of certifiable classics. The ones that stood out for me were Castlevania: Bloodlines, Wonder Boy in the Monster World, Streets of Rage 2 , both Mickey games, Contra: Hard Corps , Gunstar Heroes , and Mega Man: The Wily Wars , which compiles the first three mainline Mega Man games. I spent considerable time with each of these games and would recommend the Mini for these alone.
The emulation was handled by M2 , a Japanese developer known for developing high quality re-releases of classic games. M2 did a marvelous job. I tested all 42 games over the past month, and I can safely say that each one runs brilliantly.
The Sega Genesis Mini’s library is every bit as good as the SNES Mini.
As with a lot of games from the 16-bit era, some of the selections, like Golden Axe , don’t hold up well at all. Others like Kid Chameleon and Alex Kidd weren’t good to begin with. The Genesis Mini reaffirmed my disdain for Sonic, but I know many will buy the console for Sonic’s first two adventures alone. The library really demonstrates how Sega was able to keep pace with Nintendo at the time — there’s a lot to love here.
Charming and convenient Image used with permission by copyright holder Catchy new chiptune theme music composed by Yuzo Koshiro hums in the background while browsing for a game. The renowned composer worked on the original soundtracks for games like Streets of Rage 2 and Beyond Oasis.
 The original box art icons can be arranged in alphabetical order, by genre, release date, or player count. If you change the language, you’ll see the box art and titles for different regions. You can also switch the perspective of the tiles to browse games by the spine instead.
Games can be played in 4:3 or widescreen. When playing in 4:3, you can choose between three borders, including a generic black background and a Sonic background. A CRT filter can also be applied in either display setting, though I preferred to play with the crisp HD look.
Image used with permission by copyright holder While playing a game, you can hold the start button to pull up the save state menu. You can have four separate saves per game and load them right there from the menu. Unlike the NES and SNES Classics, you can also reset the game or return to the main menu without resetting the console. It’s a great feature to have while bouncing back and forth between games.
The Genesis Mini does have one fairly big downside, though. You cannot rewind games — a feature that is commonplace in emulation nowadays. So you’ll have to save frequently when you’re having trouble. I’m not sure if you remember, but a lot of these games are pretty challenging. A rewind feature would’ve been a great addition.
Warranty Information The Sega Genesis Mini comes with a one-year limited warranty covering everything in the box, including the controllers, HDMI cord, and power supply.
Our Take Sega’s foray into the miniature console market is a smashing success. The Sega Genesis Mini faithfully recreates the design of the original Genesis. It’s a charming little plug and play that works exactly as advertised. The game library is equally as impressive, compiling 42 classic games emulated with stunning accuracy. Save states and main menu shortcuts make the Mini breezy and convenient to use, but we wish Sega had included a rewind feature.
Is there a better alternative? No, the Sega Genesis Mini is the best and most affordable way to play these classic Sega Genesis games. It’s also at least as good as the SNES Mini , though your pick between the Sega and Nintendo retro consoles will have more to do with nostalgia than objective quality.
How long will it last? We spent about 30 hours with the Sega Genesis Mini for this review. With 42 games included, there’s hundreds of hours of playtime to be had.
Should you buy it? Yes. The Sega Genesis Mini is an awesome blast from the past.
Editors' Recommendations What games can you play on OneXplayer Mini? The ‘mini console’ trend returns this fall with the Sega Genesis Mini 2 Sega teases more mini consoles, including the Dreamcast Analogue’s DAC lets you connect modern throwback consoles to old-school TVs The Genesis Mini will make you wonder how Sega lost the console wars Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming Following in the footsteps of Nintendo’s NES and SNES Classic systems, the PlayStation Classic, and even the Neo Geo Mini, Sega is releasing its own bite-sized plug-and-play system -- the Sega Genesis Mini. The system comes loaded with more than three dozen of the most iconic games released for the original Sega Genesis, and it promises a gaming experience you’d expect from the console you spent years playing in the ‘90s. From games and price to the console's specs and the release date, here is everything we know about the Sega Genesis Mini.
It’s made by Sega, and it will vary by region Go to Target or Walmart today, and you are very likely to see plug-and-play Sega systems on the shelves, marketed as “Sega Genesis Flashback.” These consoles come preloaded with more than 80 games and feature several display modes and even wireless controllers, but they’ve been heavily criticized for poor-quality emulation that ruins the experience.
Deals Following the massive success of the NES Classic and its follow-up, the Super NES Classic, other video game companies have scrambled to cash in on the mini retro console craze. None have been able to capture the same lightning in a bottle that Nintendo did with its offerings, though; the most notable example, the ill-fated PlayStation Classic, crashed and burned pretty hard.
After Sony’s failure, it’s only natural that Sega -- Nintendo’s main rival in the 1980s and early '90s and a battle-hardened veteran of the legendary console wars -- is stepping up to the plate. Sega might have lost that particular war, but the company is still around, and there’s no denying that its consoles (particularly the Genesis) were home to some of the best games of that era.
Gaming Major forces in the gaming industry have gotten into the habit of bottling magic in the form of classic console revivals in miniature forms and Sega is next up to connect a direct line of nostalgia to gamers with the announcement of the Sega Genesis Mini. The console will cost $80 and pre-orders are live now.
The Sega Genesis Mini is set to launch on September 19 with 40 pre-loaded games, two wired three-button control pads, a USB power adapter, power cable, and HDMI cable. We wonder how long the classic console craze will last, but Sega's newest addition to the market at least means it continues to boom for now. Here are the 10 games revealed for the Genesis Mini thus far: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
