Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Reviews Sony PlayStation 4 Pro review: The default choice You don't need a PS4 Pro, but when you see games in 4K, you'll want one By Mike Epstein Close $399.99 4K gaming for less than $500 Improves visuals on select PlayStation VR titles Makes all games run slightly better than standard PS4 Looks good even on 1080p TVs Supports all PS4 games HDR can be difficult to set up Very few titles offer 4K support at launch No 4K Blu-ray Player This review was last updated by Digital Trends contributor Cody Perez on 5/11/2020.
We’re gonna need a bigger box! Shiny, happy people Shinier, sadder people Our Take Sony’s PlayStation 4 Pro was the first of its kind for gaming consoles when it launched in November 2016, able to process gameplay at 4K UHD resolution with high dynamic range ( HDR ), thanks to a better graphics card and other hardware improvements.
Best PlayStation Plus Deals: Save on Essential, Plus and Premium PlayStation 5 Slim: All rumors and speculation PlayStation VR2’s launch lineup features more than just Horizon Call of the Mountain Unlike past hardware leaps for game consoles, however, the Pro is still a PlayStation 4 at its core. It cannot play any games or game modes that can’t be found on a standard launch console. Instead, the Pro offers players, who care how about graphics and resolution, the privilege of knowing that their games run as well as they can.
The console does not do everything you’d need to make it the centerpiece of a high-end media system.
The PlayStation 4 Pro is largely successful in this regard. When played on a 4K TV, the PS4 Pro makes games look sharper and more detailed. On a standard, full HD set, games also run smoother. It is the best PS4 you can buy right now.
We’re gonna need a bigger box! Physically speaking, the PS4 Pro isn’t that much different than its new counterpart, the PS4 “Slim.” It features the same sharp, slanted design, but with three “slates,” instead of two. The Pro is not as big as you might guess by looking at it; at 295 x 327 x 55mm, it’s two centimeters wider and two centimeters deeper than the original PS4. At 7.3 lbs, it is also a pound heavier than the original PS4 and almost three pounds more than the Slim. Then again, it’s a console that just sits under your TV most of the time, so who cares? It also has some additional ports: The optical drive and two USB 3.1 ports on the front are standard PS4, but the Pro features an extra USB 3.1 port on the back, which is useful if you have a PSVR headset. To accommodate the 4K signal, the HDMI port on the Pro is HDMI 2.0. The Pro also features an optical port, which was included on the original PS4, but removed from the “Slim.” Interestingly, the PS4 Pro’s optical drive is the same one used in the PS4, which means it does not support 4K Blu-ray, unlike the more powerful Xbox Series X.
 The console will be able to stream 4K HDR content from apps such as Netflix and Hulu , but lack of support means the console does not do everything you’d need to make it the centerpiece of a high-end media system.
When played on a 4K UHD TV, the PS4 Pro makes games look sharper and more detailed.
The real changes are on the inside. The PS4 Pro features a 4.20 Teraflop (TFLOP) AMD Radeon graphics card , which is a serious improvement. Like the standard PS4, it features an 8-core AMD x86-64 Jaguar processor, but the clock speed was amped up to 2.1GHz. It features 8GB of DDR5 RAM , again, like the original PS4, but also has an extra gigabyte of DDR3 RAM to handle temporary save states for open games and apps. The Pro comes with a 1TB hard drive, which like the PS4, can be replaced with any 2.5-inch SATA hard drive.
The bottom line is the Pro’s technical upgrade is more than cosmetic. Even without software support from individual developers, games and apps run more smoothly, and load times may shorten. Some games that push the games hardware to its limits (or have been poorly optimized) will stutter less or see fewer framerate drops. At the same time, this is not the kind of jump that will enable a new generation of games like the PS5 will later this year with vastly more powerful specs over the PS4. Even if Sony did allow PS4 Pro exclusives, those games wouldn’t be much bigger or content-rich than what we’re playing now with the next generation on the cusp of release. The improved graphics card could lead to sharper, more detailed games over time, but that’s it.
Shiny, happy people The primary benefit of the PS4 Pro is the ability to play games at 4K UHD resolution. Games look better in 4K UHD than standard 1080p Full HD games. The 4K benefit increases the detail of every wall, every face, every weapon, every vehicle – everything looks sharper. Even older games like Call of Duty: Black Ops 3 , one of the few 4K-compatible games that was available before the Pro launch, look much better. That detail mostly comes through if you see objects up close — you can stare at a close-up of a person’s face and see every pore — but you will still see less-detailed textures if you’re vigilant.
As long as you have a 4K UHD TV, running a game in 4K is very easy: The console will automatically scale your resolution to 4K when you plug it in, the same way it scales your resolution on the standard PS4.
Each game also requires a patch enabling 4K support. Before the console’s launch, there were minimal 4K-enabled games, fewer than 10. That number has grown considerably in the years since the Pro’s launch, but the changes aren’t consistent across the board.
Julian Chokkattu/Digital Trends When it comes to 4K support, every game is different. Though many proposed 4K patches seem to simply enable a high-resolution mode, some games give you new settings options.
The Witness , for example, lets you choose between running it at 4K with the framerate locked at 30 frames-per-second (fps), or 1440p, upscaled to 4K , with the framerate locked at 60 fps.
The Xbox One S also can upscale games to 4K.
 However, it doesn’t currently have native 4K games, and most of its games continue to render at or below 1080p resolution, just as with the original Xbox One.
Skyrim: Special Edition does render at 4K on the PS4 Pro, and other games like Titanfall 2 and The Last Of Us receive a resolution boost.
In many cases, the resolution boost increases image quality to some degree on both 4K and 1080p sets. If you’re on a 4K set, the increased render resolution means less chance softness or up-scaling artifacts. And if you have a 1080p television, the game can “super-sample,” which means it renders at a higher resolution and then down-scales to 1080p. That results in a sharper, cleaner image.
Of course, this is all a bit confusing. While many games will “just look better” when you plug the PS4 Pro in, you may find yourself tinkering with settings to make games work “right.” This isn’t a problem — more choice is generally a good thing — but, as with adding patches and other PC-style system features to consoles, the feature offloads more decisions onto you, and forces you to do more research about the technical aspects of games. After launch, Sony also added a “ boost mode ” to the Pro, which pushes games without dedicated support for the Pro to run at higher framerates. Unfortunately, the feature is far from perfect: The results of “boosting” varies from game to game, and Sony has acknowledged that it can cause unforeseen glitches to occur, adding more trial-and-error to your console. That’s a boon on PC, where those distinctions allow you to customize your hardware, but on a console, it feels more like a burden.
Shinier, sadder people Both the PlayStation 4 and PS4 Pro support high-dynamic range, so it technically isn’t only a benefit of the PS4 Pro. But since HDR is only available in a subset of 4K televisions, and the PS4 Pro was originally shown with 4K and HDR working together to boost the console’s image equality, it is an important, and very questionable, aspect of what the console can do.
With HDR support, Sony has thrust players into the complicated world of competing, unregulated software standards.
HDR is a separate feature from 4K that’s mostly unpublicized and can be difficult to identify when buying a television. There are also different forms of HDR : The PS4 Pro requires HDR 10, which is different from “ HDR Premium.” There is also a competing standard, Dolby Vision , which is similar but will not work with a PS4 Pro.
Even if you purchase a compatible TV, there’s a good chance you may experience frustrating technical issues that could impede or prevent your ability to play games with HDR.
 Though it varies from model-to-model and brand-to-brand , it seems that models may have compatibility issues. Some of these seem to be firmware-related. In November 2016, LG released a firmware patch for some of its TVs that specifically addressed problems with the PS4 Pro.
For this review, we tested the PS4 Pro with a Samsung 8-series set, which meets the console’s specifications. The TV was able to register 4K and HDR in other devices; with the PS4 Pro, however, the set detected the HDR connection, but could not properly sustain it. The problem was partially fixed when Samsung technicians replaced the motherboard of the TV, but HDR was still not compatible with every setting.
All of these roadblocks make HDR all but unusable, which is a shame.
While it would be easy to simply chalk this up to a defective TV, it’s worth pointing out that the problem would not have presented at all if not for the technical eccentricities of the PS4 Pro. While TV-makers have worked to make their HDR sets PS4 Pro-compatible, it seems fair to say that every person will have their own issues navigate when pairing the console with a TV.
What’s more, the PS4 Pro must be plugged directly into your television to support HDR.
 It cannot present HDR content through a switcher, receiver, or any kind of pass-through.
 This constraint, which I understand to be rare, if not unprecedented, will be a serious barrier to entry for anyone who uses any kind of surround sound or other high-quality home theater equipment. Given how specialized the technology is, it isn’t crazy to think that many people who will be capable of using HDR will want to use it in conjunction with a speaker system.
Even under ideal circumstances, enabling HDR can be more complicated than setting up 4K.
 Though the PS4 Pro makes it as easy as possible, enabling the feature on your TV may require a deep dive into settings and a fair amount of trial and error. TV manufacturers seem to conflate 4K UHD (Ultra HD) and HDR.
 This will vary from set to set, but it is complicated, and there is no intuitive road map to get it working.
All of these roadblocks make HDR all but unusable, which is a shame. Based on what we saw at the PS4 Pro unveiling event, where we saw the PS4 Pro using 4K and HDR together, and our review unit where we played in 4K only, HDR certainly is the more impressive of the two upgrades.
 The more dynamic lighting allows you to see across longer distances, and discern subtle details in bright and dark places that would be obscured standard HD.
Going “Pro” in VR The PlayStation 4 Pro can also improve how well PSVR games work, regardless of what TV you have. According to Sony’s Mark Cerny, the PS4 Pro does not automatically incur any technical improvements without dedicated support built into individual games. Based on our testing, we generally found this to be the case. Though games may seek to use the PS4 Pro to enhance PSVR in different ways, the added graphical power seems to allow the headset to show more detailed renderings at a higher resolution.
Warranty information The PlayStation 4 Pro includes a one-year limited liability warranty from the manufacturer.
Our Take The PS4 Pro is undoubtedly the best version of the PlayStation 4, but it is not so much better that you should feel compelled to upgrade when a better new console is on the way shortly.
Is there a better alternative? That depends on your situation. The standard PS4 is capable of playing all the same games, so you won’t miss out on any titles with its cheaper price point. The Pro, in that case, is only for those looking to get the most out of their 4K TV. Otherwise, the only alternatives right now are the Xbox One X or a gaming PC , but you will miss out on amazing exclusives like Persona 5 Royal and Final Fantasy 7 Remake.
How long will it last? Not very long at all. The PS5 is still scheduled to release this holiday, barring any problems with production or launch, so the clock is running out on the PS4 Pro and this generation in general. There will likely be some cross-generation games at the start of the next generation, but that will only go on for so long.
Should you buy it? Yes, though it’s worth remembering the PlayStation 5 is right around the corner. If you are shopping on a budget, check out the best Black Friday PlayStation 4 deals we found.
This article was last updated by Digital Trends contributor Cody Perez on May 11, 2020.
Editors' Recommendations Best PlayStation deals: PS5, controllers, headsets on sale Sony’s cloud handheld, the PlayStation Portal, will only stream certain games MLB The Show 23 returns to Xbox, PlayStation, and Nintendo Switch this March Sony revives a PlayStation 2 deep cut as a PS VR2 launch title You can win cash with PlayStation’s new tournament feature. Here’s how to sign up Product Reviews Sony Sony PlayStation Video Game System Reviews Gaming Developer Sumo Digital and publisher Sony announced that they will bring Sackboy: A Big Adventure to PC on October 27. The PC version will support 4K resolution at up to 120 frames per second (fps) and have a variable refresh rate. It will also have ultrawide monitor and NVIDIA DLSS support.
Sackboy: A Big Adventure - Trailer de Características de PC | PC Gaming Sony is expanding into mobile gaming by acquiring mobile developer Savage Game Studios. As part of the move, Sony announced that it has established the PlayStation Mobile Division.
Sony has been slowly dipping its toes outside its normal comfort zone of console exclusives in recent years, primarily by porting its first-party titles to PC. The success of these titles has been such that the company even acquired a dedicated PC port studio, Nixxes Software, to push this initiative. While there have been a select few Sony games on mobile, such as the oft-forgotten Uncharted: Fortune Hunter, the company has otherwise been absent on the platform.
Gaming Sony has revealed the release window for PlayStation VR2: early 2023.
PlayStation France was the first to post on Twitter that the VR headset will debut next year, tweeting a picture of the hardware and its controllers with a caption that translates to "available early 2023." Shortly thereafter, the PlayStation UK Twitter account and PlayStation Instagram account also shared the image with a caption saying "coming early 2023." As such, it's safe to assume that this isn't just a fluke from a single social media account. While we now have a more specific release window for PlayStation VR2, no specific date was announced.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
