Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming PS5 Games PlayStation Plus Best PS5 Games Connect PS5 Controller to PC Best PS5 Headsets How to Turn Off PS5 Free PS5 Games Xbox Series X vs PS5 PS5 Voice Commands Home Gaming Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Sony PlayStation 5 review: slimmer model makes a great console better By Giovanni Colantonio and Chris Morris Close $500.00 Speedy hardware Excellent game load times Solid storage Lots of must-own exclusives New controller with enhanced haptics Awkward design, even on new model The expectations for Sony as it went into the current console cycle were preposterously high. The PlayStation 4 was a rousing success, and gamers were anticipating that the company would open new, previously unimagined possibilities with its next-generation system.
The hardware: It’s fast — really fast The design: still big, but better Storage: There’s enough! The controller: It’s a win Games and software: The star of the show The long term The PlayStation 5 not only met those expectations, it made them seem conservative. With lightning-fast load speeds and innovative (and captivating) changes to the DualShock controller, the PS5 sets the bar for the next generation of gaming.
The best PS5 controllers for 2023 The PS5 games with the best graphics You only have one week left to share PlayStation clips and screenshots to X While Digital Trends initially reviewed the PlayStation 5 over the course of just under two weeks, we’ve reevaluated the system a handful of times during its life due to its evolving nature. Our most recent refresh came when Sony released a slimmer new PS5 model in November 2023 that fully replaces the enormous 2020 model that we originally reviewed. That new version tackled some of our biggest problems with Sony’s system, addressing its poor storage and awkward size. Now, three years later, with a new machine in tow and a catalog of tons of high-profile exclusives , we’re still as high on the PS5 as we were at launch.
The hardware: It’s fast — really fast Giovanni Colantonio / Digital Trends Sony, from the very beginning, has said the PS5 is about speed. But until you experience it, it’s hard to convey just how big a difference speed can make.
Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 features the greatest technical magic trick I’ve ever witnessed, as players can instantaneously fast travel around New York City in the blink of an eye. Other exclusives like Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart take that to an even more impressive extreme, sending players in and out of different dimensions without a second of loading. Moments like that have delivered on Sony’s aspirational promises over the PS5’s life span, cementing it as the most impressive console on the market.
That optimization is also apparent in other Sony-published titles, like Horizon Forbidden West.
 It adds tremendously to the immersion factor of games, and it positively impacts the flow of the story in narrative titles. And the ability to jump into games quickly is just as satisfying.
It’s interesting to note this perceived difference in performance stems from software, rather than hardware. Technically, Microsoft’s Xbox Series X is the more powerful console, though the PlayStation 5 has an edge in storage performance. The Xbox lacks a strong exclusive library, however, and relatively few last-gen games take full advantage of the new console’s capabilities. This gives the PlayStation 5 a big advantage even two years on.
The design: still big, but better That great power comes with a caveat. The original PS5 model was a honking big piece of hardware with some design flaws for those who wanted to lay it down horizontally. The 2023 model is something of a “slim” refresh that solves some of those problems. The new design is definitely smaller, though I wouldn’t call it compact. It still towers above just about any other console I put it next to. The Digital Edition is notably slimmer, though, which is an improvement.
The original system’s tricky stand issues have been resolved here too, but with a catch. The system comes with two simple plastic pins that stabilize the console in horizontal mode, but it no longer comes packaged with a vertical stand. Players now need to buy a $30 ring stand separately, which feels like a step backwards.
Giovanni Colantonio / Digital Trends Microsoft’s Xbox Series X is a smaller, squatter console that isn’t quite as imposing, but its boxlike shape will still mean trouble for the average A/V cabinet. Gamers with limited space for a console may instead consider the Xbox Series S , which is much smaller than the PlayStation 5 or Series X and has a more traditional slate-like shape.
The new PS5 model does bring along a bit of tech innovation with its removable hard drive. Those who buy a Digital Edition won’t be stuck without disc drive access forever, as they can actually attach Sony’s specific Ultra HD Blu-ray drive for an additional $80. It’s a great idea that makes the PS5 more modular like a PC , but the math doesn’t exactly add up. The Digital Edition is $450, which is actually $50 more than the old version despite its smaller size. Considering that the disc drive version of the system still costs $500, you’d actually end up spending more money if you chose to add a drive on to the digital version later. That makes the Digital Edition feel superfluous, as it’ll hardly save you any money even if you don’t choose to upgrade it.
If you’re looking to grab one, your best option is to spring for the $500 model and place it horizontally. That won’t require any additional purchases.
Storage: There’s enough! The PS5’s original Achilles’ heel was its poor storage space. Due to the proprietary solid-state drive and the size of the operating system, players only had 667GB of the 825GB hard drive available for games. It was a paltry amount, but you don’t have to worry about it anymore thanks to the new model. The machine now has 1TB of internal storage, matching the PS4 Pro. Around 842GB of that is usable, which is actually 40GB more than the Xbox Series X (though slightly less than the PS4 Pro). That gives the new PS5 models the most storage of any current-gen console.
Owners can expand that amount by buying and installing an NVMe PCIe 4.0 SSD. The console has an open SSD slot for just that purpose, and we’ve put together a list of some of the best SSD options you can find.
 These are the only hard drives that will let you take advantage of the PS5’s load speeds. A typical NVMe PCIe 4.0 SSD is about $200, which isn’t cheap. On the plus side, it’s a bit less than the $220 storage cards used by Microsoft’s Xbox Series X and S consoles.
You can also hook up an external HDD or SSD, but you won’t see the speed advantages of the system on any games stored there. And any PS5 games stored there won’t be playable until you transfer them to the internal drive, making external drives useful only for older games.
The controller: It’s a win Totte Annerbrink / Unsplash If load times are the primary weapon of the PS5, the new DualSense controller is the secondary one. And it’s impressive.
Slightly larger than the DualShock 4, it refines haptic feedback, incorporating a precise sense of touch into the video game experience that force feedback never did before. This could become hokey (and, in fairness, it might in years to come), but for now, it adds another layer to games, increasing player immersion.
Struggling to pull open a heavy door or draw a bow? The hand triggers can convey that tension. Had a rough landing as you drive over a hill or a slog through a muddy area? You’ll know it. This new haptic feedback is a subtle thing that, like the lack of load screens, you’ll soon take for granted. You won’t realize how quickly you’ve gotten used to it until it’s not there.
So far, the special features have been hit-and-miss. Some games are a little too overeager to play with the adaptive triggers, making them physically difficult to play. But the handful of games that really take advantage of the controller show just how special it is.
Returnal , for instance, uses haptic feedback incredibly well, letting you feel every drop of rain or simulating a parasite squirming in your hands. Moments like that make the PS5’s experiences unlike anything on the market today.
A new built-in microphone is less useful in most games, but will allow you to briefly chat with friends without a headset.
The cost of this new functionality is battery life. The DualSense has a rechargeable battery (versus the Series X’s reliance on AA batteries), but we found that charge will drain quickly. Charging via the PS5’s USB rarely resulted in a full charge, whether in standby mode or if left on at full power. A separate charging stand, provided by Sony, did charge the controller fully.
PlayStation 4 controllers will work with the PlayStation 5, but only with PS4 games played through backward compatibility. Microsoft offers controller cross-compatibility that lets old Xbox One controllers work with the new Xbox.
Games and software: The star of the show Microsoft found itself in the awkward spot of having to debut a new console without a first-party launch title, but Sony was in an enviable position initially.
Spider-Man: Miles Morales gave it an edge out the gate, but a lot has changed since 2020.
Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 is terrific fun that showcases many, if not all, of the PS5’s features.
God of War Ragnaro k , Horizon Forbidden West , and Returnal are all must-own first-party titles. The bundled Astro’s Playground is a hidden gem of a platformer, loaded with Easter eggs that hark back to a stripped-down Super Mario Bros.
, while still acting as a walkthrough of the PS5 controller’s new features.
Third-party games have helped the PS5 build up a sizable library of hits too. Strong support from Square Enix has given the system console exclusives in Final Fantasy 16 and Final Fantasy VII Remake Intergrade.
Baldur’s Gate 3 was available on PS5 before it hit Xbox, which was a big moment for the system too. Combine all those with great current-gen exclusive titles like Star Wars Jedi: Survivor, Dead Space, and Resident Evil 4, and you’ll have plenty of games to play if you pull the trigger.
On top of that, Sony recently relaunched its PS Plus service , giving subscribers access to over 700 games. That includes some retro titles dating back to the PS1 era. While it’s not as compelling as Game Pass, it’s a much-needed service that gives PlayStation fans something to do in-between all the big-ticket games. Sony has a better ecosystem built now than it did at launch, which has only made the PS5 a stronger value.
The long term The PS5 is still the system to beat in this console generation, but while previous cycles had a clear path forward, this one is much cloudier. In its first few years, there was always a handful of big first-party games on the horizon. The PS5’s future became much harder to read after the release of Marvel’s Spider-Man 2 , as Sony planned to break into live-service games. Those plans have reportedly been stalled, with Video Game Chronicle reporting that six of its 12 upcoming games are delayed past March 2026.
It’s unclear what’s exactly in the pipeline for PS5 long term, as games like Marathon or the planned Last of Us multiplayer spinoff seem to be in temporary limbo. There aren’t too many big, single-player releases currently in the works to make up for that — at least that we know about.
In terms of the broader ecosystem, we know even less about PlayStation VR2 , the PS5 headset that Sony has struggled to support with first-party hardware since launch. Elsewhere, Sony is making a bigger push into cloud gaming with its PlayStation Portal handheld.
 Those who really want to buy into the PS5 ecosystem have a lot of ways to do so once they purchase the system. It’s just unclear where all of this is leading to long term as plans seem to be rapidly shifting around within Sony this generation.
That’s the future, though. For now, Sony has delivered a terrific next-generation console, complete with a slew of must-play, system-selling exclusives. It successfully built on the momentum of the PS4, innovated without reaching too far, and gave gamers a lot to occupy themselves with during some rough patches over the last few years. The new model only makes a better case for Sony’s system by providing the size reduction and storage increase it desperately needed.
Editors' Recommendations Got a PS5? Here’s how to get 6 free months of Apple Music The best PS5 exclusives The new 1TB PS5 has more usable storage space than the Xbox Series X The best PS5 games for 2023 The best games on PlayStation Plus, Extra, and Premium Product Reviews Sony Sony PlayStation Sony PlayStation 5 Video Game System Reviews Gaming The PlayStation 5 has been out for some time now, and its reception has been mostly positive. It includes lots of quality-of-life improvements over its predecessor, the PlayStation 4, such as faster load times, a solid-state drive (SSD) instead of a regular hard disk drive (HDD), and an improved controller in the form of the new DualSense. However, a console is only as good as the games available on it, and thankfully, the PS5 has you covered on that front as well.
While the machine already has a worthy library of great PS5 games, there are even more to look forward to, with some releasing as soon as this month, while others are still years away. In the video game world, it's not uncommon to be aware of games that are still several years out from release. It's also normal for a new game to be revealed and launched within just a couple of months. In this comprehensive list, we'll go through the major PS5 releases scheduled for 2023 and speculate on future games.
Gaming Sony consoles have always gotten multiple versions and editions ever since the original PlayStation 1. As technology becomes cheaper and more advanced, refreshed models that are both smaller and less expensive to produce typically come out a couple of years into a console's life cycle, and we have now hit that point for the PS5. The PS5 slim, as it is being referred to, is a smaller version of the launch models, and will eventually become the standard unit available to consumers once the stock of existing PS5s runs out. However, is this version worth getting if you're an existing owner, or is it only for new purchasers? There's also the question about which of the two versions to buy. To answer all these questions, let's compare the PS5 slim to the OG PS5.
Specs Let's start with the most important part, which is whether or not there's more power under the hood of the PS5 slim compared to the launch models. No, the PS5 slim is not in any way more powerful than an existing PS5. This is not a PS5 Pro, which is currently just a rumor. Games will not look, run, or play any better or worse on either version. The only difference in terms of specs is that the slim versions have slightly more storage space at 1 TB compared to 825GB, which is just a small 175GB upgrade. There's nothing here that makes it worth buying a new system when you can expand the storage of your console yourself.
Size Obviously, a slim model would mean that this new version would be smaller than the frankly comically large launch version. While that's true, it isn't a huge reduction in size. The PS5 Slim disc version weighs 3.2 kilograms (18% less that the original PS5) while the discless version weighs 2.6kg (24% less), and both are 30% smaller by volume.
Versions Once again, you will have the option to choose between an all-digital and standard version of the PS5 Slim. However, unlike the original discless PS5, the new version will give you the option to add a disc drive later on if you purchase a separate detachable drive.
Price The current PS5 models are priced at $400 and $500 for the digital and standard versions, respectively. While the PS5 slim standard version that includes the disc drive will remain at $500, the discless version will get a price increase to $450. This price increase had already been seen in other territories outside the U.S., but will now be introduced here once these new versions launch. It is also worth mentioning that the detachable disc drive you can get to upgrade your discless version will cost $80, meaning you would spend more to buy the digital version and add the drive than you would by simply buying the version with the drive already included.
Gaming PS Plus Premium is adding a new feature next month that will allow subscribers to cloud stream select PlayStation 5 games. The initial list includes heavy hitters like Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales and Horizon Forbidden West. Sony is targeting an October 30 launch in North America.
Cloud streaming has been one of the primary selling points of PS Plus since its relaunch last year. Subscribers can use the feature to access several games in the service's catalog, including PlayStation 3 games. The new feature will now extend that technology to newer PS5 releases, with Sony saying it plans to make "hundreds" of games streamable.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
