Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Reviews ‘Super Mario Odyssey’ review 'Super Mario Odyssey' doesn't need to reinvent the wheel to keep you hooked By Phil Hornshaw Close $59.99 Lots of cool places to explore Well-polished gameplay Endgame provides great puzzle variety Full of fun details, nods to past games Highly accessible for new players Often feels somewhat simplistic Not as innovative as other Mario games Controls and camera can be imprecise, frustrating In the era of 3D video games, the Mario franchise set a benchmark for platformers with adventures full of clever details, exciting moments, and well-designed mechanics.
Super Mario Odyssey continues the tradition on the Nintendo Switch with a bright, colorful entry that recaptures much of the fun gameplay that makes Mario endearing.
But while the title suggests a daring, adventurous journey, the game itself is much more conservative than the medium-defining Mario games of past generations.
Odyssey rehashes every Mario trick in the book. In the early stages of our review playthrough, it rarely stepped out of line to try anything especially new and different.
Where to find planes in Fortnite OG One of the best sci-fi games ever made is coming to Nintendo Switch next month Nintendo introduces a new Super Smash Bros. Switch OLED for Black Friday The longer you spend with it, though, the better Super Mario Odyssey becomes. Beyond a somewhat simplistic rehash of the 20-year-old 3D Mario formula, Odyssey hides a more clever, interesting game that doesn’t really show itself until you’ve dedicated eight or 10 hours to it. It’s only once you’ve finished the game’s marginal story, and you venture back into its diverse world, that Odyssey becomes something really worth playing.
Capturing Mario Super Mario Odyssey continues the tradition of 3D Mario games, established more than 20 years ago in Super Mario 64.
 These exploration-heavy platformers transpose the original 2D Mario formula, expanding it into a huge 3D world. It doesn’t quite send Mario hopping across a galaxy of planets like Super Mario Galaxy , but it is filled with interesting, colorful and exotic locales, each with a distinct feel, and some unique challenges.
Storywise, the premise is the same as always: Bowser, the giant, airship-owning king of the Koopas, kidnaps Princess Peach from her home in the Mushroom Kingdom, and Mario has to save her. This time, Bowser’s forcing Peach to marry him outright, but he still has a sense of decorum. Bowser leaves the Mushroom Kingdom and travels to other kingdoms across the game world, each with its own cartoonish and fun themes and inhabitants, where he means to steal the items he needs to throw himself a good wedding. (Kidnapping is no reason to overlook tradition).
All those different countries help set Super Mario Odyssey apart, including the first one: A kingdom populated by sentient hats. This time around, Bowser hasn’t just kidnapped Peach, he’s also nabbed Tiara, a sentient crown from the Cap Kingdom.
 Her brother, Cappy , joins Mario in his attempt to save them from Bowser, and helps him find an airship so they can follow Bowser around the world.
While “Super Mario Odyssey” is fun, it can also be forgettable.
To chase Bowser, Mario needs to find “Power Moons,” collectibles scattered around each kingdom to fuel his ship, the Odyssey. Like the stars of Super Mario 64 , you’ll need to find a certain number of moons to open up the next stop on your journey. Moons are everywhere: You’ll find them in off-the-beaten-path locations, sitting on treetops, waiting as rewards for completing puzzles and beating bosses, and handed out by characters if you can manage to locate them. The game packs more than 900 such moons, and especially in the early part of the game, they’re pretty easy to find.
Breaking up the usual Mario formula of running and jumping is Cappy, who’s both a sidekick and a special ability. Mario can toss his hat in front of him, which damages enemies, activates switches, and makes a handy extra jump platform. He also, for some reason, can “capture” creatures, allowing Mario to possess them and giving the player a new sets of abilities.
The “capture” mechanic is Odyssey ’s defining characteristic. It spices up puzzles by requiring players to learn a new way of thinking about the game, and expands the sheer number of things Mario does throughout the journey. There are several boss fights players have to complete while controlling a particular enemy the whole time, and those inject some interesting variety into the game.
Blasts from the past While Odyssey ’s hat-related mechanics sound good on paper, they ultimately don’t amount change much about the 3D Mario formula. Many of the game’s puzzles wind up feeling like a retread of Marios past. There is no idea from past 3D Mario games that Super Mario Odyssey doesn’t reuse. As a result, most Mario fans will have more than enough training to figure out every puzzle or challenge. More often than not, your first instinct is the correct one and the situation is obvious, because you’ve already done this before.
Super Mario Odyssey recaptures the fun design and details that make Mario endearing.
Cappy, too, is a cool idea in theory, but the concept never reaches its true potential. There aren’t really that many types of characters for Mario to possess throughout Super Mario Odyssey , and each one has pretty much a single use. In the sand level, for instance, there’s an Easter Island-looking creature wearing sunglasses. Possess it, and you can see invisible walkways in certain areas — but there are only a handful of puzzles that require the ability. You’ll always find the creatures you need standing next to the puzzles you need them for, and then discard them the second after you’ve accomplished the one thing they’re good for.
This simplicity, at times, holds Super Mario Odyssey back. In its first outing on its new console, Nintendo seems too afraid to challenge itself or its players, and the result is a game that gets by on nostalgia and polish.
Playing the long game While that sounds like a fatal flaw, these issues are far less pronounced when venture away from the doldrums of the game’s core story missions, and simply start exploring each level, chasing after its many power moons. Past Mario games have excelled by giving players the freedom to explore, and with so many collectibles in the world, the vast majority of Mario Odyssey’s best puzzles and challenges are reserved for players curious enough to find them.
Image used with permission by copyright holder While you can deviate from the story immediately, things open much more once Bowser is defeated and players can return to past kingdoms to hunt Odyssey’ s ridiculous number of moons. Levels open up and shift after the story, characters spread out through the kingdoms, and there are glimpses of the clever, funny and weird design ideas that define the franchise.
The deeper, more hidden challenges leverage each level’s unique qualities. Some of the moons are still simple to grab, but there are lots of challenging ones, and the combination of the two encourages players to get lost in each of the kingdoms and see everything they have to offer.
Our Take Nintendo is known for well-polished, solidly made games, and Super Mario Odyssey certainly maintains that reputation. But it also plays very safe. There are few tricks here that franchise fans won’t recognize from somewhere in the Mario library, and the new additions like Cappy don’t go very far. It makes Super Mario Odyssey ultimately more forgettable than previous entries. But while it probably won’t stick with most fans, Odyssey is still a fun return to Nintendo’s most storied franchise, and another good reason to make the plunge on a Nintendo Switch.
Is there a better alternative? The Mario franchise sets the standard for console platformers, and Super Mario Odyssey is the best fans of the genre can find. But Mario titles of the past, like Super Mario Galaxy , pushed the envelope more with the formula than Super Mario Odyssey dares to.
How long will it last? With hundreds of moons to find, Super Mario Odyssey will keep most players busy for quite a while. We worked through the main story in about eight or so hours, but you can easily spend dozens of hours combing for every last secret. Even casual players will get a fair amount of game for their dollar.
Should you buy it? Yes.
Super Mario Odyssey is a strong addition to every Switch owner’s library.
Editors' Recommendations The best Mario games of all time, ranked The best Switch controllers for 2023 Indie World Showcase November 2023: How to watch and what to expect The best Switch games for 2023 All upcoming Switch games: 2023, 2024, and beyond Game Reviews Nintendo Nintendo Switch Product Reviews Gaming The final wave of Mario Kart 8 Deluxe's Booster Course Pass launches on November 9, ending the racing game's long line of updates. Wave 6 brings several classic Mario Kart courses to the Switch game, including the long-requested Wii Rainbow Road.
https://twitter.com/NintendoAmerica/status/1719701295013953729 Gaming Hogwarts Legacy is the latest and greatest adventure in the magical Harry Potter universe. Set in the 1800s, the story focuses on a generic fifth-year student who’s tasked with taking down a brewing Goblin rebellion in-between their school duties. For Potterheads of all ages, a game that allows them to traverse the halls of Hogwarts, learn their favorite spells from the books and films, and fight enemies like dark wizards, trolls, and dragons is an absolute dream.
The game launched on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X, and PC in February. While reviews were mixed across the board, longtime fans jumped into the wizarding world in droves — over 15 million copies of the game have been sold to date. Unfortunately, players on the top-tier consoles were the only ones who had access to the game for a while. Instead of launching on all platforms simultaneously, Hogwarts Legacy's release has been staggered.
Gaming Super Mario Bros. Wonder is taking the series back to its 2D roots with a new and exciting art style and a ton of new mechanics. Alongside new power-ups and badges, this title has perhaps the largest amount of collectibles and hidden secrets of any game in the series. Between all the Wonder Seeds, Wonder Flowers, Flower Coins, and more, there's no shortage of things to do as you run, jump, and flip your way through all the various worlds. Among all the playable characters to choose from, one non-playable character makes his triumphant return. Captain Toad has managed to make his way to the Flower Kingdom, but this intrepid explorer is not so easy to find. Each time you interact with him, he will reward you with some Flower Coins and a hint at an upcoming world, so let's hunt down all his locations in Super Mario Wonder.
All Captain Toad locations Captain Toad appears in five unique spots on the Super Mario Bros. Wonder world map. Talking to him at each spot will give you a little bit more of his story, plus the aforementioned rewards.
First Captain Toad location Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
