Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Switch Lite vs. Switch vs. Switch OLED: Which Nintendo console should you buy? By Joseph Yaden Close It’s common for Nintendo to develop hardware iterations, particularly with its handheld devices. This rings true with its Nintendo Switch line of systems. So far, we’ve seen the original Nintendo Switch, the HAC-001(-01) model with a better battery life, the Nintendo Switch Lite, and now, the Nintendo Switch OLED. These models all have different features and benefits, possibly making it tough to choose which one is best for you.
Design and features Controllers Games Price Conclusion The Nintendo Switch OLED is the newest addition to the family and is available across various retailers. Whether you’re an existing Nintendo Switch owner or you’re someone looking to buy one for the first time, you’ll want to be aware of all the options. And that’s where we come in.
Here, we’ll break down the difference between the Nintendo Switch, the Switch Lite, and the Switch OLED to help you make an informed purchase.
Nintendo introduces a new Super Smash Bros. Switch OLED for Black Friday All upcoming Switch games: 2023, 2024, and beyond The best games on Nintendo Switch Online Recommended reading: 8 problems the Nintendo Switch OLED model doesn’t fix Switch OLED vs. Switch Lite Switch OLED vs. Switch Nintendo Switch Nintendo Switch Lite Nintendo Switch OLED Size Approximately 4 inches high, 9.4 inches long, and .55 inches deep (with Joy-Con attached) Approximately 3.6 inches high, 8.2 inches long, and .55 inches deep 4 inches high, 9.5 inches long, and .55 inches deep (with Joy-Con attached) Weight.
66 pounds (.88 pounds with Joy-Con controllers attached) Approximately .61 pounds Approximately .71 pounds (.93 pounds with Joy-Con controllers attached) Screen Multi-touch capacitive touch screen / 6.2-inch LCD Screen / 1280 x 720 Capacitive touch screen / 5.5-inch LCD / 1280×720 resolution Multi-touch capacitive touch screen / 7.0-inch OLED screen / 1280×720 CPU/GPU NVIDIA Custom Tegra processor NVIDIA Custom Tegra processor NVIDIA Custom Tegra processor Storage 32 GB of internal storage (microSD card expandable) 32 GB of internal storage (microSD card expandable) 64 GB (microSD card expandable) Wireless Wi-Fi (IEEE 802.11 a/b/g/n/ac) Wi-Fi (IEEE 802.11 a/b/g/n/ac) Wi-Fi (IEEE 802.11 a/b/g/n/ac compliant) Video output Up to 1080p via HDMI in TV mode and up to 720p via built-in screen in tabletop mode and handheld mode N/A Up to 1080p via HDMI in TV mode / Up to 720p via built-in screen in Tabletop mode and Handheld modes Audio output Compatible with 5.1ch Linear PCM output with output via HDMI N/A Compatible with 5.1ch Linear PCM output / Output via HDMI connector in TV mode Speakers Stereo Stereo Stereo Buttons Power button / Volume button Left Stick, Right Stick, A, B, X, Y, L, R, ZL, ZR, +, – Buttons, Control Pad, Power Button, Volume Button, HOME Button, Capture Button Power button / Volume button USB connector USB Type-C USB Type-C USB Type-C Headphone/mic jack 3.5mm 4-pole stereo (CTIA standard) 3.5mm 4-pole stereo (CTIA standard) 3.5mm 4-pole stereo (CTIA standard) Game card slot Nintendo Switch game cards Nintendo Switch game cards Nintendo Switch game cards microSD card slot Compatible with microSD, microSDHC, and microSDXC memory cards Compatible with microSD, microSDHC and microSDXC memory cards Compatible with microSD, microSDHC, and microSDXC memory cards Sensor Accelerometer, gyroscope, and brightness sensor Accelerometer / gyroscope Accelerometer, gyroscope, and brightness sensor Operating environment 41-95 degrees / 20%-80% humidity 41-95 degrees F / 20%-80% humidity 41-95 degrees / 20%-80% humidity Internal battery Lithium-ion battery/4310mAh Lithium-ion battery / battery capacity 3570mAh Lithium-ion battery / 4310mAh Battery life Approximately 4.5 to 9 hours Approximately 3 to 7 hours Approximately 4.5 to 9 hours Charging time Approximately 3 hours Approximately 3 hours Approximately 3 hours DT review 4/5 stars 4/5 stars 4/5 stars Availability Available now Available now Available now Design and features Image used with permission by copyright holder All three systems vary in design and support a multitude of features across the board. Starting with the regular Nintendo Switch, it can be used in handheld, tabletop, or TV mode, hence its name. Out of the box, it comes with a dock that can be connected to a TV, allowing you to “switch” it from a handheld device to a home console. The system also comes with two Joy-Con controllers — one for each side of the system — and can be attached to a Joy-Con Grip to function similarly to a standard controller.
You can use the kickstand on the back of the system to set it on a flat surface and play in tabletop mode — perfect for those traveling with company. The system supports multiple players and is a lot of fun when used in tabletop mode.
The Nintendo Switch OLED works the same but has a slightly bigger 7-inch screen compared to the 6.2-inch display on the standard model. The OLED model also comes with a built-in Ethernet port, which isn’t present on the standard model (though all models can connect to the internet via Wi-Fi). And the kickstand goes all along the backside of the device, which is a major step up from the thin, flimsy kickstand on the original system.
And of course, the OLED screen on the newest model will give you a much crisper picture, with darker blacks and more contrast. It’s also supposed to use less power than an LCD screen, which is always a good thing. It’s also worth mentioning the Switch OLED comes with a white Joy-Con set and dock — a color that has yet to be released before. Finally, the OLED comes with 64GB of onboard memory, as opposed to the 32GB on the original.
As for the Nintendo Switch Lite, it lacks many of the features listed above. Most importantly, it does not come with a dock and only supports handheld mode, throwing the “switch” functionality out the window. Though many players prefer a dedicated handheld device, so this isn’t as bad as it might seem. The Switch Lite doesn’t support a detachable Joy-Con and comes as one solid piece, instead. It features a smaller, lighter form factor than its older brothers and is designed with portability in mind. The Switch Lite comes in a variety of colors including gray, turquoise, and yellow.
Despite this, you can actually hook different controllers up to it wirelessly, though using them is tougher since the device doesn’t come with a kickstand. It also has a shorter battery life than the other models, which is a shame since portability is the main focus. Just like the original, the Switch Lite also comes with 32GB of onboard memory, but can be upgraded with microSD cards. Another drawback is the Switch Lite’s inability to support HD rumble, which won’t necessarily cause you too many problems — though this does mean you can’t play a small selection of games on it.
Controllers Image used with permission by copyright holder One of the great things about the Switch family of systems is the versatility in its controller options. With the standard Switch and the OLED model, you’ll be able to interact with the device using the Joy-Con controllers out of the box. Remember, these can be attached to the Switch itself to function in handheld mode, but can also work in tabletop mode or when playing on the TV. You can even flip them horizontally to function as a single controller in games that support this scheme — meaning the device comes with two functioning controllers right off the bat.
Outside of that, you can get a Pro Controller, which functions more like a traditional gamepad you might be used to. It’s got some weight to it and is on par with an Xbox controller, which is ideal when playing on the TV. Though, the Pro Controller can also be connected to the Switch and Switch OLED in tabletop mode, as well. We recommend this controller for games that require accuracy, such as Splatoon 2 or any first-person shooter.
There are also wired options that typically connect via USB, which can be plugged into the dock. These are often third-party gamepads that vary in quality, so we often advise sticking with the Nintendo manufactured options if possible.
On the Switch Light side of things, controllers aren’t as much of an issue since it’s meant to be played in handheld mode only. You can still connect controllers to it wirelessly, but with its smaller screen and lack of a kickstand, we don’t really recommend doing so. Still, you can prop the device up and use wireless controllers with it such as the Pro Controller or Joy-Con.
Games Image used with permission by copyright holder Regardless of the Switch you get, you shouldn’t run into many game compatibility issues across the board. The Switch and OLED models both support the same library of games, so you won’t have any worries if you get one of those two options. You can insert game cartridges or download games digitally from the eShop with no issues.
In contrast, the Switch Lite actually prevents you from playing a small selection of games , so you’ll want to be aware of them before making your purchase.
1-2 Switch and Super Mario Party both require HD rumble, which is not supported on the Lite model. There are also certain games that will work on the Switch Lite but are less practical due to the small screen. For instance, Just Dance 2020 and Ring Fit Adventure are two workout games that are best played on a big screen so you have plenty of room to move around.
In addition, Nintendo Labo is not compatible with the Switch Lite.
Price Nintendo Features aside, price is often one of the most important factors when selecting which device is right for you. The prices between the Switch systems don’t fluctuate too much, but you should be aware of their costs if you’re wanting to game on a budget.
A standard Nintendo Switch costs $300 and comes with the device itself, a dock, two Joy-Con controllers (left and right), a Joy-Con grip, and all the cables needed to hook it up. The system hasn’t received a price drop since it launched in 2017, and it’s unclear if and when it will be less expensive.
The Nintendo Switch OLED on the other hand costs $350. With this, you’re paying extra for the better, bigger OLED screen, improved kickstand, and Ethernet port. While those features might not seem worth it to you, some will opt to spend an extra $50, especially if they plan on using the device in handheld mode more.
The most affordable option is the Nintendo Switch Lite, which costs $200. Of course, you’re dropping the ability to play it on the TV and will have slightly worse battery life and the inability to play certain games on it. Depending on your budget and what you’re wanting to do with the device, the Switch Lite might be for you, especially if you travel often.
Conclusion There isn’t a definitive option within the Nintendo Switch family because you should pick one based on your needs. However, we do have recommendations for different players, depending on what they’re looking for.
Firstly, if you already have a Nintendo Switch model, it’s a hard sell to upgrade to the OLED model. The new features are nice, but unless you’re specifically looking for a bigger, slightly better screen, you might want to stick with what you have. Granted, certain retailers do allow you to trade in your old hardware, so depending on how much you can get for your Switch, an upgrade could be worth it.
It’s also worth mentioning that the Joy-Con and dock are interchangeable between the OLED and standard Switch model, which is great for users who do upgrade.
If you don’t already have a Switch system, the OLED is an excellent choice and is the newest, most feature-heavy option in the family. Given that it’s a $50 upgrade from the standard model, you can be the judge of whether that’s worth it for you. If you plan on playing online with an Ethernet cable, we highly suggest the Switch OLED, as the original requires a LAN adapter to play with a wired connection. But keep in mind this will only work when docked.
For those looking to play casually, both in handheld and on the TV, the standard Switch will be your best bet. You probably won’t reap the benefits of the extra $50 upgrade price if you aren’t planning to play much, anyway. Families who want to play multiplayer games should at least consider the standard or OLED models to be able to play on the TV.
The Switch Lite is best for players looking for the least expensive option. At $100 less expensive than the standard model, this price difference is worth being aware of. This is also a great choice for those only looking to use the device in handheld. It won’t do you any good to have the more expensive models if you only want to use the Nintendo Switch as a portable device, so that’s something to keep in mind.
Editors' Recommendations One of the best sci-fi games ever made is coming to Nintendo Switch next month The best Switch games for 2023 When does Hogwarts Legacy come out on Nintendo Switch? Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door is getting a surprise Switch release Mario vs. Donkey Kong is getting a Nintendo Switch remake in February Buying Guides Buying Guides Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming Is your backlog of video games running low? Did you just grab a new PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X or Nintendo Switch and need to build up your library? Video game deals are the cheapest way to do it. Below we've pulled the best video game deals available for all three current generation consoles. These are all fantastic games, by the way. Everything listed below appears on our list of the best PS5 games, best Xbox Series X games, or best Nintendo Switch games. You'll find deals on some surprisingly popular titles, too.
Best PS5 game deals Diablo IV -- $63, was $70 Gaming New reports affirm the rumors that Nintendo has started to show its next-generation console -- referred to colloquially by fans as Nintendo Switch 2 -- behind closed doors at a recent video game industry expo. It reportedly featured tech demos highlighting features like Nvidia DLSS support and ray tracing.
Gamescom 2023 was held in Cologne, Germany, between August 23 and August 27. Nintendo attended the European game industry event, and shortly thereafter, rumors emerged that Nintendo had shown its next console behind closed doors. Now, new reports from Eurogamer and VGC are corroborating these claims.
Specifically, both sources say that Nintendo showed tech demos for its next game console in private during meetings with some other game developers at Gamescom. Both sources confirmed that an upgraded version of The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild was shown off on this "Switch 2" hardware.
VGC also had a source who claimed that the impressive The Matrix Awakens Unreal Engine 5 tech demo -- used to promote Epic Games' new engine and the power of the PS5 and Xbox Series X back in 2021 -- was also shown to developers and seemed to confirm that the new Nintendo system will support Nvidia's upscaling DLSS tech as well as ray-tracing. Keep in mind that tech demos for systems often don't make the transition to full-game releases.
We don't know much else about what was shown, although VGC claims that this system will be usable in a portable mode like the Nintendo Switch is. Currently, the launch window for Nintendo's next new piece of hardware is expected to be sometime in fall 2024, although Eurogamer's source stated that "Nintendo is keen to launch the system sooner if possible." Nintendo has not commented on these rumors, and is unlikely to ahead of an official console reveal. Still, the idea that the next Nintendo console is nearly upon us should be exciting for fans of one of the video game industry's most storied companies.
Gaming Picking a console is a big decision. They're not cheap, so unless gaming is your passion, you probably don't want to spend the cash to grab all three of the major ones. That's why we've collected the best prices on every version of the three major consoles. Below you'll find Xbox Series S and X deals, PlayStation 5 deals, and Nintendo Switch deals (on all the various versions). We've listed the best prices at the major retailers, and any deals we could find among them. Once you've grabbed your console, check out the best video games deals to go along with them.
Xbox Series S deals -- starting at $280 The Xbox Series S is the less powerful but cheaper option out of the newest generation Xbox line. When comparing the Xbox Series S versus the Xbox Series X, the Series S takes a hit in all the component categories. That means it's not quite as fast. But if you're not hung up on getting the optimal performance out of your system, you'll actually notice very few differences. The two biggest ones are the Series S's inability to play in 8K, and its lack of a disc drive. Most people don't even have 8K TVs, so that shouldn't be an issue. If you're alright with downloading all of your games straight to the console's memory (and you have a separate DVD or Blu-Ray player), the Series S will work fine. It's quite a bit smaller anyway, and easier to fit on a shelf.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
