Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming The Switch OLED’s superior screen has ruined my regular Switch for me By Giovanni Colantonio Close When Nintendo announced the Switch OLED model , fans weren’t too happy. Many had anticipated a Switch Pro was coming and had some big (though reasonable) expectations. Many hoped for resolution bumps in both docked and handheld mode. It didn’t help that publications like Bloomberg had been publishing credible reports that further raised those hopes.
Incrementally better A hard sell Then came the crushing disappointment.
 The new Switch wouldn’t give Nintendo games a major graphical boost. Instead, it would simply feature an OLED screen that was bigger and brighter than the base Switch’s LCD display. Its other bells and whistles felt like they should have been there all along, like a wired internet port and an adjustable kickstand. We certainly weren’t getting a PS4 Pro-style upgrade here.
Now that the initial frustration has passed, it’s time to focus on what the Switch OLED actually does, rather than what it doesn’t. I went hands-on with Nintendo’s new console, testing it with a demo of Metroid Dread.
 While I don’t think that the Switch OLED will be a necessary upgrade for most gamers, it’s undoubtedly a better iteration of the console that has me tempted to upgrade.
Sony’s new PlayStation earbuds are a perfect match — for my Nintendo Switch Super Mario Bros. Wonder has some of Nintendo’s best online features What games will Nintendo Switch 2 launch with? We have some ideas Incrementally better At a passing glance, the Switch OLED looks and feels about the same as a base model, save for its white Joy-Cons. But the big difference is in its screen, which explains why Nintendo opted to focus on that in its naming convention, rather than calling it a Pro model. The OLED display is notably bigger than that of a base Switch. The console itself isn’t noticeably larger, but it makes much better use of its real estate.
Image used with permission by copyright holder On a standard Switch, there’s a black frame around the 6.2 inch screen. The OLED minimizes that space, letting the display expand out to seven inches. Every tenth-of-an-inch counts when talking about a mobile gaming device, and I certainly felt a noticeable difference when playing in handheld mode (especially as someone whose vision has started eroding after staring at screens all day during lockdown last year).
More notable, though, is that the screen makes the Switch feel less like a toy and more like a precious piece of tech. The old model’s massive bezel seems a little goofy by comparison when I look at it now. It’s a subtle visual difference, and not one that should convince anyone to upgrade, but I certainly found myself feeling like I wanted to handle the OLED with a bit more care than my original, hairline-scratched Switch.
What really matters is visual quality, and I was instantly impressed by what I saw on the console. No, it doesn’t run 4K graphics in handheld mode as some gamers were clamoring for. However, it does look undoubtedly better. In playing Metroid Dread , colors felt crisp and vibrant. The blue of Samus’ new suit really pops off the screen in a way that it doesn’t on my 2019 model Switch.
Dread is a smart game to launch with the console; its heavy focus on atmospheric lighting effects means that you really get a sense of how bright the display can get. The images on my current Switch suddenly felt a little washed out when I sat down with it afterward.
Image used with permission by copyright holder A hard sell Aside from the new screen, there wasn’t much else to note from my time with the system — and that’s what makes it such a hard sell. The adjustable kickstand is certainly an upgrade, as it allows me to tilt the angle of the Switch to my liking when playing in tabletop mode. That’s a nice upgrade from the current Switch’s flimsy kickstand, which now feels as toy-like as its screen after using the OLED version. The audio is supposedly better in the new model as well, but it was hard to get a sense of that without a direct, back-and-forth comparison between the models. I didn’t get to check out the wired internet connection, either, but I have doubts that it’ll fully fix Nintendo’s deeper online issues anyways.
The decision to upgrade seems like it’ll simply comes down to whether or not you want a bigger, brighter screen when you play. Those who never touch an OLED model will be none the wiser; without a point of comparison, the regular Switch will feel entirely serviceable. But the moment you actually get to see the new panel in action, it’ll retroactively ruin your perception of your trusty console. The screen will look unusually small. The image will seem flatter. The bezel will feel sillier.
I walked into the Switch OLED hands-on feeling like there was a 0% chance I’d pick one up. Now I’m kicking myself for not pre-ordering a thing I very sincerely do not need.
The Nintendo Switch OLED launches on October 8 alongside Metroid Dread.
Editors' Recommendations One of the best sci-fi games ever made is coming to Nintendo Switch next month Nintendo introduces a new Super Smash Bros. Switch OLED for Black Friday WarioWare: Move It! let me control Mario 3’s Tanooki suit with my butt Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door is getting a surprise Switch release Mario vs. Donkey Kong is getting a Nintendo Switch remake in February Features Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming Nintendo is launching a Nintendo Switch - OLED Model Mario Red Edition in October. The news capped off the company's Super Mario Bros. Wonder Direct today, which shared new details on the upcoming platformer.
This new themed version of the latest Nintendo Switch iteration is completely red across the system and Joy-Cons. On the back of it, players can find a silhouette of Mario and hidden coins. It's not as detailed as The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom's OLED model, but it does look very sleek. This Mario Red Edition system will come out on October 6, two weeks ahead of Super Mario Bros. Wonder's release.
Gaming Nintendo Switch Online just added two retro classics, as Pokémon Stadium 2 and Pokémon Trading Card Game are now available on the service. Both games have been updated to feature online multiplayer.
Both announcements come from today's Pokémon Presents stream, which primarily focused on updates to mobile games and Pokémon Scarlet and Violet. Nintendo Switch Online got a small block during the presentation, when it was revealed that the two games were dropping on Switch shortly after the stream.
Gaming The original Red Dead Redemption is coming to two new platforms, PS4 and Nintendo Switch, later this month. It'll retail for $50 on both platforms.
Red Dead Redemption and Undead Nightmare Coming to Switch and PS4 Rockstar Games' open-world western game first launched in 2010 for Xbox 360 and PS3. It was critically acclaimed and a smash sales hit, creating a new franchise for Rockstar that could stand alongside the likes of Grand Theft Auto. It received a sequel, Red Dead Redemption 2, in 2019, but the original Red Dead Redemption remained stuck on older platforms outside of backward compatibility support on Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S.
That's why fans got excited when a rating for the game from the Game Rating and Administration Committee of Korea popped up. We've now learned that this rating is for new Nintendo Switch and PS4 ports of Red Dead Redemption by Double Eleven Studios. Red Dead Redemption will release across both of those platforms digitally on August 17, with a physical launch to follow on October 13.
It will cost $50 and includes the base campaign as well as the zombie-infested Undead Nightmare expansion; the Red Dead Online multiplayer is not included. This is the first time Red Dead Redemption will ever be on a Nintendo system, although it doesn't look like the port will have much in the way of Switch-exclusive features. That said, a press release does reveal that this will be the first version of the game to include Brazilian Portuguese, Korean, Latin American Spanish, Polish, Russian, Simplified Chinese, and Traditional Chinese localizations.
Red Dead Redemption comes out on PS4 and Nintendo Switch on August 17.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
