Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Upcoming Nintendo Switch Games Connect Nintendo Switch to TV Free Nintendo Switch Games Cancel Nintendo Switch Online Best Nintendo Switch Games Charge Nintendo Switch Controller Nintendo Switch Accessories Nintendo Switch Controllers Nintendo Switch vs Switch Lite Home Gaming Switch OLED vs. Switch By Joseph Yaden Close The Nintendo Switch OLED serves as yet another iteration of the handheld hybrid, boasting an improved screen and a boatload of bells and whistles. At first glance, the OLED model might not appear too different from the original Switch, but it certainly has a variety of new features you should be aware of, especially if you’re thinking of upgrading. Given the original Switch is nearly five years old at this point, it’s a great time to grab an OLED. Or perhaps you’re considering purchasing a Switch for the first time.
Specs Design and features Controllers Games Price Conclusion Either way, it’s good to know the difference between the original and the OLED, so you can make an informed purchase — and that’s where we come in. Here, we’ll compare the original Switch to the new OLED model, with details that will hopefully help you choose one over the other.
Recommended reading: 8 problems the Nintendo Switch OLED model doesn’t fix Switch OLED vs. Switch Lite The best Nintendo Switch games for 2021 Specs Nintendo Switch Nintendo Switch OLED Size Approximately 4 inches high, 9.4 inches long, and .55 inches deep (with Joy-Con attached) 4 inches high, 9.5 inches long, and .55 inches deep (with Joy-Con attached) Weight.
66 pounds (.88 pounds with Joy-Con controllers attached) Approximately .71 pounds (.93 pounds with Joy-Con controllers attached) Screen Multi-touch capacitive touch screen / 6.2-inch LCD Screen / 1280 x 720 Multi-touch capacitive touch screen / 7.0-inch OLED screen / 1280×720 CPU/GPU NVIDIA Custom Tegra processor NVIDIA Custom Tegra processor Storage 32 GB of internal storage (microSD card expandable) 64 GB (microSD card expandable) Wireless Wi-Fi (IEEE 802.11 a/b/g/n/ac) Wi-Fi (IEEE 802.11 a/b/g/n/ac compliant) Video output Up to 1080p via HDMI in TV mode and up to 720p via built-in screen in tabletop mode and handheld mode Up to 1080p via HDMI in TV mode / Up to 720p via built-in screen in Tabletop mode and Handheld modes Audio output Compatible with 5.1ch Linear PCM output with output via HDMI Compatible with 5.1ch Linear PCM output / Output via HDMI connector in TV mode Speakers Stereo Stereo Buttons Power button / Volume button Power button / Volume button USB connector USB Type-C USB Type-C Headphone/mic jack 3.5mm 4-pole stereo (CTIA standard) 3.5mm 4-pole stereo (CTIA standard) Game card slot Nintendo Switch game cards Nintendo Switch game cards microSD card slot Compatible with microSD, microSDHC, and microSDXC memory cards Compatible with microSD, microSDHC, and microSDXC memory cards Sensor Accelerometer, gyroscope, and brightness sensor Accelerometer, gyroscope, and brightness sensor Operating environment 41-95 degrees / 20%-80% humidity 41-95 degrees / 20%-80% humidity Internal battery Lithium-ion battery/4310mAh Lithium-ion battery / 4310mAh Battery life Approximately 4.5 to 9 hours Approximately 4.5 to 9 hours Charging time Approximately 3 hours Approximately 3 hours DT review 4/5 stars 4/5 stars Availability Available now Available now Where to find planes in Fortnite OG One of the best sci-fi games ever made is coming to Nintendo Switch next month Steam Deck OLED fixes the worst part of Valve’s handheld Design and features Nintendo The Switch and the Switch OLED have a lot in common, from their design to their features. However, there are some distinct differences you should be aware of, as each system is targeted at slightly different audiences. The most important factor to consider is the OLED’s screen, which makes colors stand out more and is noticeably larger than the one on the original model. As its name suggests, it boasts a 7.0-inch OLED screen, as opposed to the 6.2-inch LCD screen on the original. Aside from being larger, the OLED screen is unique in that it provides a backlight to illuminate pixels even further. What this means is that colors will appear more vibrantly, making the original screen seem dimmer by comparison. To players who plan on playing in handheld mode more, the OLED should be your first choice.
You’ll also gain access to a built-in LAN port within the OLED’s dock, which makes it much more convenient to connect an Ethernet cable to it. By default, all Nintendo Switch consoles support Wi-Fi, but connecting via an Ethernet cable gives you better, more stable internet speeds. With the original Switch model, you can connect a LAN adapter to it via USB, but this can be costly and less convenient. So, if you’re planning on playing online frequently, the OLED might be for you. Do note you can only take advantage of the wired connection while docked. In handheld mode, both the Switch and Switch OLED must use Wi-Fi.
One of the downsides of the original Switch is its flimsy, thin kickstand. It works well enough, but it always feels like the Switch is going to collapse under the weight of the kickstand. Now, thanks to the Switch OLED’s new and improved kickstand, you’ll have fewer issues. This is because the kickstand covers the entire backside of the Switch OLED, is significantly sturdier, and allows for multiple degrees of positioning. In short, the new kickstand on the Switch OLED is better in nearly every way.
Finally, the Switch OLED features white Joy-Con controllers, which marks the first time they’ve been made available in that color (at least officially). Plus, the Switch OLED comes with a built-in screen protector, which was a nice surprise. Ultimately, the Switch OLED has a slew of additional features that stand out above the original model. Aside from that, the OLED does not have any CPU or processing improvements from the original.
Controllers Nintendo When it comes to controller support, the Switch and the Switch OLED are practically identical. You can connect any Joy-Con to either system, along with the Pro Controller, and even third-party USB wired gamepads. Wired controllers must be connected to the dock, meaning you can only use them in TV mode. The Switch OLED’s dock features two USB ports on the exterior, while the original Switch dock has three — one on the inside, and two on the exterior. This is a slight win for the original Switch, as it has more USB ports.
Both systems can connect wirelessly to additional controllers in handheld, docked, or TV mode. We highly suggest playing with a Pro Controller, as it feels just like a traditional gamepad you’d find on a PS5 or Xbox Series X /S. It works well, especially with games that require accuracy such as shooters. Both systems come with two Joy-Con controllers out of the box. Each Joy-Con can be flipped horizontally and used as an individual controller, meaning two players can enjoy the system right away.
Games Image used with permission by copyright holder Once again, both systems support the same exact games. You can buy physical cartridges or digital downloads via the eShop. One thing to note is that the Switch OLED features 64GB of onboard memory, while the original only has 32GB. You can expand the memory using microSD cards, but by default, the Switch OLED has more memory. It’s worth noting, too, that if you connect the Switch OLED via Ethernet cable , you’ll be able to download games faster than if you were using Wi-Fi, so this is an important detail to consider. If you plan on going the digital route, the OLED might work best as long as you dock it to the TV (and hook up an Ethernet cable to it).
Aside from that, games will look better on the OLED in handheld mode, thanks to the enhanced screen. But if you only plan on playing docked, you won’t reap the benefits of the enhanced screen, so in that case, you can get away with using the original Switch instead.
Price Photo by Alvaro Reyes on Unsplash The Switch OLED touts a fantastic array of features, but they come at an additional cost. You can pick up an original Switch model for $300, and in some cases, even less. By contrast, the Switch OLED is $350, but it comes with a slew of added bonuses such as the larger OLED screen, the built-in LAN port, a better kickstand, and white Joy-Con controllers. It’s possible the original Switch will receive a price cut sometime soon, but as it stands, it has stayed at around $300 since 2017 and hasn’t fluctuated since. Ultimately, you can be the judge of whether that extra $50 is worth the price of admission for the Switch OLED.
Conclusion While the Switch OLED is superior to the original model in more ways than one, it doesn’t necessarily mean it’s the best option for you. The Switch OLED is perfect for those who want to play in handheld mode often, as it boasts a bigger, better screen. It’s also ideal for those who want to play online frequently or download most of their games since the system features a built-in LAN port on the dock. Or maybe, you just love the white Joy-Con controllers it comes with.
If you already own a regular Switch system, it’s tough to recommend upgrading since the original model gets the job done just fine. If you don’t have a Switch already and are considering getting one, the OLED is likely the better option. Even if its new features aren’t necessarily appealing to you, it’s nice having the newest model. Though it’s worth mentioning, the OLEDs have been hard to come by, meaning you’ll likely have no choice but to get the original model, at least for the time being. Players who simply want to enjoy some of the best Nintendo games but aren’t particular about how they look should consider purchasing the original Switch model, as it’s less expensive, more readily available, and works just fine.
After spending some time with the Switch OLED, it’ll be hard to go back to the original model, especially in handheld mode. As we said in our Switch OLED review: “The Nintendo Switch OLED may not be what players dreamed of, but it’s undeniably a technical step up for the Switch.” With that in mind, hopefully you can confidently make a decision that suits your needs.
Editors' Recommendations The best Mario games of all time, ranked The best Switch controllers for 2023 Indie World Showcase November 2023: How to watch and what to expect Nintendo introduces a new Super Smash Bros. Switch OLED for Black Friday The best Switch games for 2023 Nintendo Nintendo Switch Gaming The Nintendo Switch is one of the most popular consoles Nintendo has ever produced, with a wide variety of games to choose from and plenty of unique features. We’ve already gotten to play new entries across the Zelda, Super Mario, and Pokémon series on Nintendo Switch, but there are still plenty of great games on the way for the hybrid console. These include exclusive games developed internally by Nintendo, as well as third-party titles and ports of games that are also available on other platforms.
Here's our list of the best upcoming Nintendo Switch games for 2023 and beyond. Of course, some titles without release windows could skip the Switch entirely and wind up on Nintendo's next-gen console.
Upcoming Switch games 2023 The games listed below either have 100% confirmed release dates or solid release windows that we expect them to hit this year. Anything that's up in the air due to more vague launch predictions or previous delays will be listed below confirmed launches.
Gaming The final wave of Mario Kart 8 Deluxe's Booster Course Pass launches on November 9, ending the racing game's long line of updates. Wave 6 brings several classic Mario Kart courses to the Switch game, including the long-requested Wii Rainbow Road.
https://twitter.com/NintendoAmerica/status/1719701295013953729 Gaming Hogwarts Legacy is the latest and greatest adventure in the magical Harry Potter universe. Set in the 1800s, the story focuses on a generic fifth-year student who’s tasked with taking down a brewing Goblin rebellion in-between their school duties. For Potterheads of all ages, a game that allows them to traverse the halls of Hogwarts, learn their favorite spells from the books and films, and fight enemies like dark wizards, trolls, and dragons is an absolute dream.
The game launched on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X, and PC in February. While reviews were mixed across the board, longtime fans jumped into the wizarding world in droves — over 15 million copies of the game have been sold to date. Unfortunately, players on the top-tier consoles were the only ones who had access to the game for a while. Instead of launching on all platforms simultaneously, Hogwarts Legacy's release has been staggered.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
