Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Reviews ‘The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild’ review No Zelda game can prepare you for 'Breath of the Wild' By Mike Epstein Close $59.99 Beautiful game world Intense combat Pushes you to think in new ways Interesting story Feels original Very hard Confusing at times The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, is the flagship of the Nintendo Switch’s day one launch lineup. It is also, frankly, a behemoth of a game — More interesting and more challenging than we could have hoped for. As such, we haven’t completed the game yet! While we take our time and get everything we need to make a decisive, insightful judgement on The Breath of the Wild, we’ve put together our thoughts on game so far.
In short, Breath of the Wild is the most audacious Zelda game since the original hit store shelves more than 30 years ago. It takes the basic premise of every Zelda game — gather the tools, skills, and wits necessary to save the Princess — and strips away many of the series’ guiding mechanics. The Hyrule of Breath of the Wild is an open world, without the constraints of gear-gating or mandatory trials. You can go where you like, best any challenge you’re capable of enduring.
Nintendo is shutting down online services for 3DS and Wii U next April The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom DLC is not happening, says Nintendo The best Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom mods Hylian Culture shock You may be surprised at how little you can endure.
Breath of the Wild is the hardest Zelda game yet. By a long shot. Between its survival elements — you have monitor temperature, stamina, and gather materials to make food and defend yourself — and some very punishing combat, it feels like Breath of the Wild shares as much design DNA with Dark Souls and The Witcher 3 as it does with Ocarina of Time and Skyward Sword.
And yet, at the same time, where other games treat that punishing gameplay as its own reward, Breath of the Wild rewards you with its wonderful world. As link roams through desert valleys, snowy mountains, sweeping plains, and ancient ruins, he’ll run into moblin camps, travelling salesmen, and short puzzle temples in equal measure. There’s danger lurking around every corner — not horror, not combat — danger. Challenging enemies or puzzles that, if you fail, could lead to your death.
Whether he’s engaged in a one-on-one duel or warding off many opponents, every movement and attack matters, and a misstep will kill you, more often than not. The combat is very focused on tactical movement and decisive strikes. Most enemies will do significant damage with every hit (especially because health upgrades are few and hard-earned). Link’s attacks — and many of his other moves — are also limited by the stamina meter, so you can’t just hack and slash your way to victory. Even seemingly benign fights can quickly get very intense.
While it can be stressful, the combat is also fresh and highly exciting. Rather than simply upgrading a sword, Link acquires many kinds of weapons, including swords, spears, axes, garden hoes, and more. Weapons degrade over time — in fact, they break pretty rapidly. It’s easy to change weapons on the fly, so it isn’t a huge problem, and the need to constantly change up your style adds a certain franticness to each fight.
No Zelda game will prepare you for Breath of the Wild.
While the combat feels more concentrated, the game’s puzzle-solving feels more spread out and integrated into every moment of the game. Though you’ll always have objective markers showing you a point on the map to reach, the act of reaching it often involves climbing mountains you don’t have the stamina to climb, or finding cold-weather clothes you don’t know how to make. To accomplish many of the game’s primary quests, which involve long journeys and multiple sub-quests, you will find and assign yourself unmarked, un-prescribed tasks along the way. The game relies on you to make these adventures for yourself, and motivate yourself to find your way through them. Making progress is hard, and your reward is self-satisfaction, rather than checking an item off a list.
In addition to its major dungeons, which blend puzzles and combat, Link will come across dozens of small Sheikah Shrines scattered throughout the world, each of which holds a single puzzle. Those puzzles range from using the Switch controller’s gyroscope to guide a ball through a maze, to mobility puzzles, to combat trials. They tend to vary wildly in both difficulty and inventiveness, but in general you can expect most of them to illicit at least one head-scratch, which is a good thing for a puzzle to do.
Image used with permission by copyright holder In general, Breath of the Wild frequently asks you to be honest with yourself about your abilities. Do I have enough energy to climb this tower? Should I risk swimming across this river? In many other games, those questions are answered for you. Games generally make it clear when you aren’t supposed to go somewhere, either because it isn’t time for you to be there yet or because you’ve reached the edge of the game world.
BoW does not telegraph its intentions so blatantly, so your instincts — and the ability to learn your lesson when you’ve died — are critical as you make your way through the game. For many modern players — this is going to be a learned skill.
Hyrule reborn Visually, the game looks sharp. Breath of the Wild employs a semi-Cel-shaded art style, and uses it to great effect. Whether you’re surveying Hyrule’s vast world from a high cliff, or cooking apples and mushrooms in a stew, it looks colorful and vibrant.
It’s an odd juxtaposition with the story, which, without giving away too much, is as dark as Zelda gets.
Breath of the Wild takes place in a version of Hyrule where Link has already lost the fight. His goal isn’t to save the kingdom, but to reclaim it. That darkness doesn’t appear in twisted, evil designs, but you do get the sense that the world is sparsely populated, and there are more ruins and wild than villages.
The story is used sparingly and, when it comes into view, it is told much more cinematically than past games. While there’s plenty of reading to do, there are also cutscenes where characters — not Link — speak clearly. While they aren’t in the tradition of the series, these scenes go a long way toward showing (rather than telling) you what’s at stake (the world) and making you feel that.
While it can be stressful, the combat is fresh and exciting.
When you encounter civilization, much of Hyrule has a decidedly Japanese aesthetic. The series’ Japanese identity has always permeated the generic medieval vibe of many Hyrules past, so a world that acknowledges and directly draws from that feel fresh and welcome.
While so many aspects of Zelda feel deeply different and alien, its characters are one of the few aspects that feel familiar. While Link gets more dialogue choices than he has in the past, the rapport between Link and other characters is almost always punctuated with the series’ traditional noises and exclamations. Most characters walk the line, between charming and goofy, and end up enchantingly, laughably earnest.
Our Take The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild is impressive. There are tons of things to see and do, and each moment feels densely, intensely alive because you’re exploring a world that feels like it could (and has) existed without your presence. The world doesn’t bend to your will, you bend to it, and you will want to, because it is interesting and worth seeing.
At the same time, we can’t help but wonder if the shock from some of the game’s changes, particularly the high difficulty, will be hard to take for some fans. We can’t stress this enough: no Zelda game will prepare you for Breath of the Wild.
 If that excites you, then this is a game you will want to play. If your expectations tend to drive your passions, it may leave you out in the cold.
Is there a better alternative? In short, no. There really isn’t a game like Breath of the Wild.
 Many have compared the game to Horizon: Zero Dawn because they both have sprawling open-worlds, but Horizon’s progression is very different from Breath of the Wild.
 They are both excellent games, but they are very different.
Similarly, we’ve compared the game, particularly its combat, to the Dark Souls series more than once. But in terms of exploration, narrative, and overall charm, Zelda is far more interesting and inventive than those games. And clearly, they don’t share in aesthetic.
How long will it last? Since we haven’t completed the game, we can’t tell you! We will say that I’ve been playing for about 20 hours and I’m not nearly done.
Regardless of how long it takes for you to complete, half the fun of Zelda is exploring its world, which could take over 100 hours to do thoroughly.
Should you buy it? We’ve put over 20 hours into Breath of the Wild , but have not finished it. Our final score may change. With that said, we can state the obvious.
Breath of the Wild is the best game on the Nintendo Switch at launch. If you are already buying a Switch (or planning to), you should buy it. Just be prepared to die. A lot.
Editors' Recommendations One of the best sci-fi games ever made is coming to Nintendo Switch next month Nintendo’s next console may feature DLSS and ray-tracing support Nintendo Switch deals: Don’t pay full price! The worst Zelda games ever made are getting a spiritual successor Watch these 5 movies if you liked The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Game Reviews Nintendo Nintendo Switch Product Reviews Gaming The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild introduced many survival elements into the Zelda formula, and The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom only expands on those concepts. Things like cooking and crafting return in new-and-improved forms, but what hasn't changed much is the need to gather tons and tons of resources. From food to materials, weapons, and ores, Link's pockets will quickly become jam-packed with these materials. Zonite is a new form of resource that is vital for anyone who is enjoying the new Ultrahand ability and creating all types of wacky vehicles and contraptions. If you're hitting the limit on your creations due to a lack of Zonite, here are the best places to farm it in Tears of the Kingdom.
What is Zonite? Zonite is tied to the ancient Zonai and their technology, which you will be using to build various machines in Tears of the Kingdom. Zonite itself is a material you can collect that, when you have enough, can be used with a Forge to make one of two things: Zonite Charges or Crystallized Charges. Zonite Charges are used to immediately refill any Energy Cell's power, while Crystallized Charges expand those Energy Cells' maximum capacity.
Best places to find Zonite The best places to find Zonite, like any raw material, are down in the Depths. Here are a few hotspots we've found to have a good supply for you to plunder.
Great Abandoned Central Mine The Great Abandoned Central Mine is an easy spot to recommend for farming Zonite since it is quite easy to access. You can find it at coordinates -0728, -1860, -0503. Simply drop inside with a hammer or explosives and break the deposits to gather up the Zonite.
Lindor Canyon Mine If you've drained the Central Mine clean, Lindor Canyon Mine is another spot rich in Zonite. You can find it at the coordinates -2004, 1310, -0715.
Enemies in the Depths If you're not as much into mining, another method for getting Zonite is to collect it from enemies in the Depths. While not every enemy drops this material, plenty do, so fighting off these tougher enemies can be worth your time. Korok Grove, found at 006, 2521, -0623, has two encampments to raid if you're feeling up to the challenge.
Gaming Two weeks after its release, Nintendo has patched out one of the most helpful exploits in The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom: a popular item duplication glitch.
When Tears of the Kingdom launched on May 12, it felt surprisingly polished considering how complex its open world and systems like Fuse and Ultrahand are. That said, it wasn't entirely free of bugs. Some of these glitches prevented progression, including one that was solved in the Ver. 1.1.1 update, but others were much more helpful, like item duplication. As Digital Trends' guide on the exploit details, players could duplicate items by fusing materials with arrows and then dropping two identical bows within a short timeframe.
According to players, Tears of the Kingdom update Ver. 1.1.2, which was released on May 25, removes this item duplication glitch from the game. Interestingly, this specific exploit isn't detailed in the patch notes, which simply say that "several issues have been addressed to improve the gameplay experience," among other audio and quest fixes.
You can check out the full list of Ver 1.1.2 patch notes below.
Gaming The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom is finally here. Already one of our favorite Zelda games of all time and a confirmed spectacular sequel to 2017's The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, this is a Hyrule adventure that players are going to spend hundreds of hours completing. While hunting down Ganondorf, Link will have to find hundreds of shrines, explore the Sky Islands and a massive underground world beneath Hyrule's great fields, and fight off enemies of all kinds while mastering new abilities and skills.
It's dangerous to go alone! Take these guides.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
