Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Reviews The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt review Sprawling, gorgeous, and engrossing, The Witcher 3 is one of the best RPGs in years By Will Fulton Close $60.00 One of the largest, most detailed game worlds ever Thoughtful writing fills the game with humanity Visually gorgeous Problematic handling of women Slightly clunky combat doesn’t match the elegant storytelling A griffin has terrorized local peasants for weeks. What do you do? Traditional RPGs have taught you to go find it and kill it. First, you grind up your experience by slaughtering a few lesser monsters, and then you slay the beast and collect your reward. Slow down – that’s not the Witcher way.
In this game, you might check the site of the attack, track the beast back to its lair, and learn why it’s suddenly grown so aggressive. Was its mate murdered? No wonder it went on the rampage. Now we know what kind of griffin we’re dealing with, and the state it’s in. The local militia probably won’t like hearing that this is their fault, and probably won’t even be very grateful after I’ve cleaned up their mess. Witching is lonely work, but someone’s got to do it.
The best field upgrades for Modern Warfare 3 Zombies Modern Warfare 3 Zombies: Mercenary Convoy guide Is Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 cross-platform? A massive open world, but a single story The Witcher 3 is big.
 If Skyrim is still the standard measuring stick for open worlds, The Witcher 3 is roughly 3.5 times larger at more than 50 square miles of land and sea for you to explore, and surprisingly little of it feels like filler. That expansive landscape is full of markers indicating treasure caches, bandit camps, places of power, and full-blown, multi-part quests for you to stumble upon. This is not Skyrim , however. You’re not going to spend weeks furnishing your strongholds and becoming king of the bandits. There is a lot to do and find, but the primary story is still the main course.
Unlike other open world RPGs that offer a full suite of customization options for your character, in The Witcher 3 you necessarily play as one, particular man: Geralt [sic] of Rivia, the eponymous witcher. Witchers are a class of specialized monster hunters, kidnapped at a young age, altered through magical and alchemical mutations, and rigorously trained in order to be a perfect, monster-killing machine. They are simultaneously revered for their skill and loathed for being different.
At the start of the game, Geralt is searching for Ciri, a young woman whom he essentially raised. Because of her magical lineage, Ciri is an immensely powerful sorceress – so much so that she has attracted the attention of the eponymous Wild Hunt, a terrifying and interdimensional band of riders who want to abduct her for their own sinister ends. Much of the game’s action in the first half revolves around tracing Ciri’s progress through the northern realms as you try to catch up with her before the Hunt.
Traditional RPGs have taught you to go find it and kill things. That’s not the Witcher way.
Geralt is a generic action RPG protagonist: a white, grizzly-voiced man for whom bad guys fall and women swoon. Yet, somehow he manages to feel more specific and likeable than he really should. He has a dry sense of humor that gives some of the more tediously conventional quests a necessary knowing wink. Two previous games and a series of novels have grounded Geralt with a sense of place and history. A side effect of his witcher mutations is emotional suppression, which serves as a perfect in-game justification for the sardonic, muted acting style that he shares with many of his video game protagonist peers.
It’s a little like Game of Thrones , complete with sexism Like Game of Thrones , The Witcher’s world stands in stark, grizzly contrast to the bucolic, medieval heroics of friendlier mainstream fantasy. Personal narratives flow seamlessly into the rise and fall of nations, and a direct line is drawn from the whims of the powerful to their brutal consequences for the lives of the downtrodden. Geralt is caught between these two poles. His services are needed by both, but embraced by neither.
Image used with permission by copyright holder However, also like the HBO series, The Witcher 3 is permeated with a problematic sort of soft sexism. Violence against women is readily used to add gritty color. While there are numerous strong female characters with fully-developed personalities and agency, they are consistently dressed in comically low-cut tops and share a very narrow range of visually-pleasing body types. While The Witcher 3 is certainly not the most egregious offender out there (and is miles better than the first Witcher ’s collectible cards for bedding women mechanic), the game is nevertheless still rooted uncritically in the white, heterosexual, male perspective that permeates mainstream gaming.
That being said, within that framework it does an excellent job of telling complex, human stories. Frequently, the monsters you are contracted to slay are deeply connected to the lives of the people who hire you. An example is a demon who preys upon the guilt and suffering of a man who let his brother die many years ago, convincing him that the voices he hears are vindictive gods ordering him to mutilate himself in atonement. Monsters as metaphors for human foibles is an old trope, and it works especially well here. The game draws deeply from European folklore, which gives these quests a mythic resonance.
The choices presented to you are also never reduced to the reductive moral binary of games like Mass Effect.
 Like real life, it’s difficult to tell what will ultimately result from your actions, with unanticipated consequences often popping up hours later in unexpected places. Sometimes your choice doesn’t matter anyway, but that’s okay. It all serves to reduce your ability to game the system and instead make choices based on actual roleplaying.
An early major quest involves spousal abuse, alcoholism, and a miscarried baby that turned into an evil spirit. Tricky subject matter like this is handled with grace, managing to walk the fine line of being humanizing without excusing the violence. The writing throughout the game’s many, many quests is consistently thoughtful, and often human, funny, and surprising. The facial animations are also particularly on point and the voice acting is generally solid, which strongly supports the experience where other games have had good writing undermined by dead-eyed delivery.
A gorgeous game with satisfying combat Complaints making the rounds about a “visual downgrade” from early demonstrations are entirely beside the point: this is a gorgeous looking game. From dramatic wilderness vistas to bustling city streets, the world is thoughtfully designed. Areas that would easily read as copy/pasted and generic in a less thorough game are granted enough visual detail to feel specific and lived-in. The Northern Realms are a wonderful place to get lost in. Although a fast travel system between sign posts can help shuttle you from objective to objective, it is often far more rewarding to simply ride the long way and take in the sights, seeing the crowded alleys of Novigrad seamlessly give way to the murky swamps of Velen.
Combat is tactically satisfying to get the hang of, but ultimately can feel stiff and unwieldy. A large part of the strategy revolves around the fact that attacks from the rear do more damage; much of combat revolves around positioning. Geralt always pushes forward with every attack, which can be useful for driving opponents apart, but can become extremely frustrating when exact location is a concern. In an early quest, Geralt has to defeat waves of enemies while staying within the small, protective dome of a magic shield, and his relentless forward momentum makes this an unnecessary challenge.
The camera can also be crippling at times, especially indoors. Timing is key in combat as you dodge and strike, and the camera will sometimes swing around to awkwardly obscure the action at precisely the worst moment possibly. Although you can correct it with the right control stick, sometimes a moment of confusion is all it takes to end up as Troll food.
If you’ve never played a Witcher game before, this is a great place to start.
Although there is definitely a degree of grace to be found in mastering the rhythm of combat, it never achieves that euphoric flow state that you can find in Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor.
 Those two games actually complement one another somewhat perfectly. The fluid combat and dynamic open-world systems of Mordor , combined with the textured world-building and sharply written, compelling storytelling of The Witcher 3 would make the perfect action RPG for the current moment.
Like Mordor , The Witcher 3 is not a radical leap forward, but satisfying culmination of past games.
Conclusion While longtime fans of the books and games will find plenty to reward them, Witcher 3 is also far and away the best entry point into the series. If you’ve never played a Witcher game before, this is a great place to start. In many ways, this is the same game that CD Projekt Red has made for almost a decade, but with the edges sanded off. All of the signature systems like alchemy, skill progression, and mutagens are there, but unified into a more cohesive and streamlined whole than ever before. Inventory management can be clunky, but promised UI improvements in upcoming patches may help address this.
While not without its flaws, The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt is a monumental game. It is enormously ambitious, and mostly succeeds in what it sets out to accomplish. Minor quibbles are easily set aside because the overall experience is so engrossing. It was an extraordinary exercise in restraint to play this in expedient review mode, but now that I have completed it, I look forward to going back to start all over again and play at a pace more in line with my compulsive completionist RPG roots.There aren’t a whole lot of games like The Witcher 3 in existence.
This game was reviewed on Xbox One with a code provided by the publisher.
Highs One of the largest, most detailed game worlds ever Thoughtful writing fills the game with humanity Visually gorgeous Lows Problematic handling of women Slightly clunky combat doesn’t match the elegant storytelling Editors' Recommendations Best Perk-a-Colas in Modern Warfare 3 zombies, ranked How to fix packet burst in Modern Warfare 3 Modern Warfare 3 Zombies: tips and tricks for MWZ How to rank up fast in Modern Warfare 3: best ways to farm XP Modern Warfare 3 preload guide: release time, file size, and preorder Action Games Game Reviews Product Reviews Gaming There are many different types of missions in Payday 3, but your overall goal remains consistent: make as much money as possible. Cash isn't just a way to measure how well you did in a heist, but is obviously a currency you need if you want to unlock any of the game's many weapons or cosmetic items to customize your theif. This makes earning money equally as important as leveling up and getting new skills since, no matter how good you are, you can't upgrade your arsenal without it. There are a decent number of jobs to take at launch, but not all are created equal in terms of potential profit. Even those that seem like they will give you the most cash may not be the most efficient. If you and your crew want to grind out money as fast as possible in Payday 3, these are the jobs to take.
Most profitable heists Before looking at the heists themselves, it should be noted that every heist you do can be made more profitable by increasing the difficulty level. Obviously, this will also increase the challenge, and beyond the normal level, we would only recommend it if you have a good loadout and team of friends with you as opposed to joining up with random people online. If you're unprepared, it can also make heists take longer, which is another factor you will need to consider.
Road Rage Road Rage is an early job you can attempt that is also the first one where there's no stealth option at all. You start this mission already masked up and on alert. The objective here is to break into an armored truck full of rare-earth elements that is set to cross the Queesnboro Bridge, which just so happens to be under construction. On normal difficulty, you can potentially between $200,000 and $500,000, but bump that up to Overkill and you can stand to walk away with $850,000 in a single job. You might wonder why this is the top when there are other jobs with higher potential payouts, but that's because this mission, once understood, can be done and dusted in 10 to 15 minutes.
Gaming Nintendo confirmed it will widely shut down online services for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U games in April 2024, which will be just over a year after it discontinued the Nintendo eShop on those systems.
This deactivation of most of the online services for those platforms was revealed on X (formerly Twitter) and Nintendo's support site early Wednesday. "In early April 2024, online play and other functionality that uses online communication will end for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U software. This also includes online co-operative play, internet rankings, and data distribution," the message says. "We will announce a specific end date and time at a later date. Please note that if an event occurs that would make it difficult to continue online services for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U software, we may have to discontinue services earlier than planned. We sincerely thank players for using the online services of Nintendo 3DS and Wii U software over a long period of time and apologize for any inconvenience." Essentially, this means that after April 2024, you won't be able to use any online features in things like 3DS Pokémon games or Super Smash Bros. for 3DS and Wii U anymore. Nintendo does say in the Q&A section of its support article that people will still be able to play games offline and redownload updates and games from the Nintendo eShop for the foreseeable future. Pokémon Bank will remain unaffected, so it'll still be possible to transfer Pokémon from Ruby and Sapphire all of the way to Pokémon Home. However, SpotPass support and other online-focused applications like Nintendo Badge Arcade will stop working entirely.
Just like the Wii U and 3DS eShop closure that caused a ruckus earlier this year, this move is a blow to game preservation and will forever harm some games not available anywhere else. While it's understandable that Nintendo might want to move on from these systems' dated online infrastructure, it's still a disappointing move for those of us who spent a lot of time playing games offline and online on these systems.
Computing The Meta Quest 3 is on its way to claim its spot among the best VR headsets when it launches on Oct. 10. However, you can already start taking advantage of Meta Quest 3 deals ahead of the device's release. We've spotted the top offers for the VR headset right now, and it's highly recommended that you take advantage of them before they get sold out.
Today's best Meta Quest 3 deals Meta Quest 3 (128GB) -- $500 with Asgard's Wrath II If you buy the 128GB model of the Meta Quest 3 for its sticker price of $500 from Best Buy, you'll also get a copy of Asgard's Wrath II. In this sequel to one of the most critically acclaimed VR games, you'll be battling gods and monsters in an epic action RPG using unique weapons and different combat styles. The VR headset comes with a pair of Touch Plus controllers with wrist straps.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
