Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Gaming Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Save $70 on the Xbox Series X with Forza Horizon 5 By Jennifer Allen Close Hanif Jackson / Digital Trends For one of the best Xbox Series X and Series S deals around, look no further than Walmart. Today, you can buy the Xbox Series X Forza Horizon 5 bundle for just $490 so you save $70 off the regular price of $560. If you’re looking to start your holiday gift purchasing or you simply want a new console for yourself, this is a great deal. Check it out now by tapping the buy button below or keep reading while we tell you more about it.
Why you should buy the Xbox Series X Forza Horizon 5 bundle The Xbox Series X is a seriously powerful games console. While it might have a fairly divisive design being a very large black box, inside is some fantastic power. It has 12 teraflops of processing power and is capable of running games at 120 frames per second in 4K.
 It runs quietly too thanks to a great cooling design. Under the hood is 1TB of hard drive space which translates to 802GB of available space once you rule out the needs of the operating system. Tag on one of the best Xbox Series X accessories like the Seagate Storage Expansion Card and you’re all set to embrace the best Xbox Game Pass titles.
Of course, this deal comes with one of them — Forza Horizon 5.
 It’s the Premium Edition so you get access to the Hot Wheels expansion pack along with VIP membership and plenty of additional cars. Being able to dip in and out demonstrates how well the Xbox Series X ’s Quick Resume function works, allowing you to dive right back in any time without worrying about loading issues.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
If you previously owned an Xbox One, all your accessories still work here while you can enjoy optimized versions of many of your favorite games. It’s an ideal accompaniment to snapping up some of the best Xbox Series X games like Halo Infinite and Starfield.
Whatever you plan on playing, being able to buy an Xbox Series X with Forza Horizon 5 for $490 is a pretty sweet deal. It’s available at this price from Walmart right now with $70 saved on the usual price. Check it out now before the deal ends very soon.
Editors' Recommendations The brand new PS5 ‘Slim’ is already discounted Xbox Series X Black Friday deals: Consoles, games, and accessories Razer Black Friday deals: Save on gaming laptops, keyboards and more This PS5 bundle just got a price cut for the holidays Early PS5 controller Black Friday deal saves you $20 on an official model Deals Microsoft Xbox Computing Dell's Alienware brand is one of the most trusted names in the gaming industry, so it should be one of your top options if you're looking for gaming laptop deals or gaming PC deals. The stylish designs and powerful performance don't come cheap though, so you're going to want to take advantage of Alienware deals so that you can enjoy some savings with your purchase. We've rounded up our favorite offers here to help you pick your next gaming machine, but you need to hurry with your decision on what to buy because some of these discounts won't last long.
Alienware Aurora R15 gaming desktop (RTX 4060) -- $1,300, was $1,600 The Alienware Aurora R15 gaming desktop is powered by the latest 13th-generation Intel Core i7 processor, the Nvidia GeForce RTX 4060 graphics card, and 16GB of RAM, which are enough to play the best PC games without any issues. The gaming PC also comes with Windows 11 Home pre-loaded, so you can start installing your favorite titles on its 512GB SSD as soon as you set it up.
Gaming day Grabbed one of the Nintendo Switch deals going on right now and want to add the best game for the system? Walmart has The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom on sale for only $48 so you save a massive $22 off the regular price of $70. Nintendo games don't always see deep discounts so this is the perfect time to snap up one of the games of the year for less. Here's what you need to know before you hit the buy button.
Gaming The Nintendo Switch OLED - The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Edition, a special version of the hybrid console, is currently available from Walmart for $319 after a $41 discount on its original price of $360. It's the perfect choice for Nintendo Switch owners who haven't upgraded to the OLED model, as its design is inspired by what is already one of the best Nintendo Switch games just a few months after its release. This flash sale is one of the most attractive gaming deals in the market right now, so we don't expect it to last long -- buy it immediately to enjoy the savings.
Why you should buy the Nintendo Switch OLED - The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom Edition The Nintendo Switch OLED is an upgraded version of the Nintendo Switch featuring a 7-inch OLED touchscreen that's more colorful, brighter, and larger than the original's 6.2-inch LCD touchscreen. However, our Nintendo Switch OLED versus Nintendo Switch comparison reveals other improvements with the latest model, including a built-in LAN port in its dock, a wider and sturdier kickstand at the back, and double the onboard storage at 64GB.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
