Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Computing Guides Products FreeSync vs. G-Sync By Max Kwass-Mason Close If you’ve ever experienced screen tearing in a PC game, you know how annoying it can be — an otherwise correctly rendered frame ruined by gross horizontal lines and stuttering. You can turn on V-Sync, but that can be detrimental to system performance.
Performance Selection Premium versions Conclusion Nvidia and AMD have stepped up to solve the issue while preserving frame rates, and both manufacturers have turned to adaptive refresh technology for the solution. That often leads to a very obvious recommendation: If you have an Nvidia GPU, use G-Sync. If you have an AMD GPU, use FreeSync.
But if you have a choice in monitors or graphic cards, you may be wondering exactly what the differences are and which syncing technology is best for your setup. Let’s break it down to reveal which is a better option for you.
The best processors in 2023: AMD and Intel CPUs duke it out What is ray tracing, and how will it change games? The best Ryzen CPU: Which Ryzen processor should you buy? Performance G-Sync and FreeSync are both designed to smooth out gameplay, reduce input lag, and prevent screen tearing. They have different methods for accomplishing these goals, but what sets them apart is that the former keeps its approach close to the vest, while the latter is shared freely.
Nvidia’s G-Sync works through a built-in chip in the monitor’s construction. FreeSync uses the video card’s functionality to manage the monitor’s refresh rate using the Adaptive Sync standard built into the DisplayPort standard — the result is a difference in performance.
Users note having FreeSync enabled reduces tearing and stuttering, but some monitors exhibit another problem: Ghosting. As objects move on the screen, they leave shadowy images of their last position. It’s an artifact that some people don’t notice at all, but it annoys others.
Many fingers point at what might cause it, but the physical reason for it is power management. If you don’t apply enough power to the pixels, your image will have gaps in it — too much power, and you’ll see ghosting. Balancing the adaptive refresh technology with proper power distribution is hard.
Both FreeSync and G-Sync also suffer when the frame rate isn’t consistently syncing within the monitor’s refresh range. G-Sync can show problems with flickering at very low frame rates, and while the technology usually compensates to fix it, there are exceptions. FreeSync, meanwhile, has stuttering problems if the frame rate drops below a monitor’s stated minimum refresh rate. Some FreeSync monitors have an extremely narrow adaptive refresh range, and if your video card can’t deliver frames within that range, problems arise.
Most reviewers who’ve compared the two side-by-side seem to prefer the quality of G-Sync, which does not show stutter issues at low frame rates and is thus smoother in real-world situations. It’s also important to note that upgrades to syncing technology (and GPUs) are slowly improving these problems for both technologies.
Selection One of the first differences you’ll hear people talk about with adaptive refresh technology, besides the general rivalry between AMD and Nvidia , is the difference between a closed and an open standard. While G-Sync is proprietary Nvidia technology and requires the company’s permission and cooperation to use, FreeSync is free for any developer or manufacturer to use. Thus, there are more monitors available with FreeSync support.
In most cases, you can’t mix and match between the two technologies. While the monitors themselves will work irrespective of the graphics card ’s brand and can offer both Freesync and G-Sync support, G-Sync is only available on Nvidia graphics cards. Freesync works on all AMD cards and some Nvidia cards, too. But there’s a catch — it’s only guaranteed to work correctly on FreeSync monitors that are certified Nvidia G-Sync Compatible.
 The cards have undergone rigorous testing and are approved by Nvidia to ensure that FreeSync runs smoothly across the card range. Here’s a current list of certified monitors.
If you go the Nvidia route, the monitor’s module will handle the heavy lifting involved in adjusting the refresh rate. They tend to be more expensive than Freesync counterparts, although there are now more affordable G-Sync monitors available, like the Acer Predator XB241H.
Most recent-generation Nvidia graphics cards support G-Sync.
Blur Busters has a good list of compatible Nvidia GPUs you can consult to see if your current card supports it. Nvidia, meanwhile, has special requirements for G-Sync rated desktops and laptops for a more thorough check of your system.
You won’t end up paying much extra for a monitor with FreeSync. There’s no premium for the manufacturer to include it, unlike G-Sync. FreeSync in the mid-hundreds frequently comes with a 1440p display and a 144Hz refresh rate (where their G-Sync counterparts might not), and monitors without those features can run as low as $160.
Premium versions Image used with permission by copyright holder G-Sync and Freesync aren’t just features; they’re also certifications that monitor manufacturers have to meet. While basic specifications allow for frame syncing, more stringent premium versions of both G-Sync and Freesync exist, too. If monitor manufacturers meet these more demanding standards, then users can feel secure that the monitors are of higher quality, too.
AMD’s premium options include: FreeSync Premium : Premium requires monitors to support a native 120Hz refresh rate for a flawless 1080p resolution experience. It also adds low frame rate compensation (LFC), which copies and extends frames if the frame rate drops to help smooth out more bumpy experiences.
FreeSync Premium Pro : Previously known as FreeSeync 2 HDR, this premium version of FreeSync is specifically designed for HDR content, and if monitors support it, then they must guarantee at least 400 nits of brightness for HDR, along with all the benefits found with FreeSync Premium.
Nvidia’s G-Sync options are tiered, with G-Sync compatible at the bottom, offering basic G-Sync functionality in monitors that aren’t designed with G-Sync in mind (some Freesync monitors meet its minimum requirements). G-Sync is the next option up, with the most capable of monitors given G-Sync Ultimate status: G-Sync Ultimate : Ultimate is similar to FreeSync Premium Pro, a more advanced option available on the more powerful GPUs and monitors that are designed for HDR support and low latency. It used to demand a minimum brightness of 1,000 nits, but that was recently reduced to demand just VESA HDR400 compatibility, or around 400 nits.
Conclusion The G-Sync from Nvidia and the Freestyle feature from AMD both come with amazing features that can improve your game levels. Personally, when you compare the two, the G-Sync monitors come with a feature list that is slightly better, especially for the products rated at the G-Sync Ultimate level. That said, the difference between the two isn’t so great that you should never buy a Freesync monitor. Indeed, if you already have a decent graphics card , then buying a monitor to go with your GPU makes the most sense (side note for console owners: Xbox Series X supports FreeSync and PS5 is expected to support it in the future, but neither offer G-Sync support).
If you eliminate the price for any additional components, you can expect to shell out a few hundred dollars on a G-Sync monitor , at least. Even our budget pick is available for about $330. Unfortunately, due to product shortages, prices can vary significantly for a compatible G-Sync graphics card.
 Mid-range options like the RTX 3060 are releasing shortly and will offer fantastic performance for around $400, but they’ll also be in short supply. Any other new generation cards will also be tough to find and could set you back at least $500 when available.
If you need to save a few bucks, FreeSync monitors and FreeSync-supported GPUs cost a bit less, on average. For example, the AMD Radeon RX 590 graphics card costs around $200. That said, all of the power-packed graphics cards were pretty difficult to find in the early part of 2021. It may be best to wait a few months and then buy a new RX 6000 card for a more budget-friendly price instead of buying MSRP right now.
Editors' Recommendations JPEG vs. PNG: When and why to use one format over the other All ray tracing games on PC: AMD Radeon and Nvidia RTX ray tracing What is VSync, and why do you need it? What is a CPU? Here’s everything you need to know The best free photo-editing software for 2023 Gaming Computing With a new batch of GPUs all claiming to be the best graphics card, 4K gaming is becoming a reality for more and more products. It's still an expensive, enthusiast-class resolution, but with the best GPUs for 4K gaming, you can push high frame rates and a high resolution simultaneously.
We've meticulously picked over the dozens of GPUs we've review over the last two years to find which graphics cards are best for 4K. Here are our final picks.
Computing Rumor has it that AMD may have decided not to launch any high-end GPUs in the next generation of graphics cards, meaning RDNA 4. However, this freshly leaked diagram gives us some insight into what could have been -- or perhaps, what will be -- if AMD's best graphics card of the next generation was made. It appears that AMD's next-gen architecture is a lot more complex than RDNA 3.
The diagram comes from YouTuber Moore's Law is Dead, who, as always, cites his own anonymous sources. It's only a partial diagram, but even that quick look into the architecture of RDNA 4 tells us a lot. While not sure which GPU this is, Moore's Law Is Dead refers to it as Navi 4C, and all signs point to it being AMD's top GPU for the next generation. Still, it's unclear if this new naming convention refers to Navi 41 or perhaps Navi 42, as Navi X and Navi M have also been mentioned recently.
Computing Everything in this world has gone digital, and that includes homework (if you have kids). If your children are young, you’re probably not giving them laptops or free rein of the family computer yet. You’re also probably not always able to monitor their screen activity, either.
That’s where parental control software comes in handy. Such software helps keep your kids safe from the dark web, and there are usually free options available for all operating systems. Keep reading to find out more.
Built-in OS features Giving your kids technology designed for their age group is an excellent first step toward keeping them safe online. When they have access to more general computing devices, you can leverage parental control features built right into the operating system. The parental controls for both Windows and macOS provide a convenient and acceptable means for restricting web access and chat functionality, and give parents the ability to view detailed logs and monitor email exchanges.
Microsoft Family Safety Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
