Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Audio / Video Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? ATSC 3.0: Everything you need to know about broadcast TV’s next big thing By Simon Cohen and Michael Bizzaco Close ATSC 3.0 (also referred to as NextGen TV) is the future of over-the-air (OTA) TV, combining existing antenna technologies with internet-powered tools to deliver the next generation of digital broadcasting.
What is ATSC 3.0? What are the benefits? How does it work? What gear do I need? Do I need a new antenna? Do I need internet access? Am I going to need a new TV? What if I don’t care about ATSC 3.0? When can we expect ATSC 3.0 to arrive? ATSC 3.0 upgrades our existing antenna TV system by establishing a new technical framework for how those TV signals are created, broadcast, and received. It supports higher resolutions like 4K and possibly 8K, along with much better sound. There’s even the potential for ATSC 3.0 to replace some uses of mobile data, especially within the automotive world. Here’s everything you need to know about ATSC 3.0.
What is ATSC 3.0? Image used with permission by copyright holder ATSC 3.0 is the latest version of the Advanced Television Systems Committee standards, defining how exactly television signals are broadcast and interpreted. OTA TV signals currently use version 1.0 of the ATSC standards, which were introduced all the way back in 1996, initiating the switch from analog to digital TV that was finalized in the U.S. in 2009.
YouTube TV in 4K: Everything you need to know 4K TV buying guide: Everything you need to know What is 4K? Everything you need to know about 4K Ultra HD The switch to digital that ATSC 1.0 delivered helped to improve picture and sound quality, but it also laid the groundwork for a vast new world of broadcast content and interactivity. By leveraging the same underlying protocols as the internet, ATSC 3.0 makes these experiences possible.
Wondering what happened to ATSC 2.0? Yeah, good question. It was basically outdated before it had the chance to launch. All of the changes that were added in ATSC 2.0 have been integrated into ATSC 3.0.
What are the benefits? Dan Baker / Digital Trends The first major benefit is picture quality. While the current ATSC 1.0 standard caps out at 1080i, the new standard allows for 4K UHD broadcasts. Other picture quality upgrades, including high dynamic range (HDR), wide color gamut (WCG), and high frame rate (HFR) are all part of the new provision.
Right now, ATSC 3.0 uses the H.265 HEVC codec for video delivery because of its efficiency gains over the much older H.262 MPEG-2 codec used in ATSC 1.0.
ATSC 3.0 isn’t married to a single video format. Over time and through upgrades, it will be able to adopt newer codecs like the recently finalized H.266 VVC codec , which is the leading candidate to usher in 8K when that time comes.
ATSC 3.0 also includes benefits for reception, meaning you should be able to receive more channels of higher quality without the need for a large antenna. Audio quality is increased as well. While ATSC 1.0 uses Dolby AC-3 — an audio format that is limited to 5.1 channel surround sound — ATSC 3.0 uses the newer Dolby AC-4 for broadcasts of up to 7.1.4 channel audio, and it supports object-based sound formats like Dolby Atmos.
Cleverly, AC-4 can adapt to your gear, so if your TV or A/V receiver can support 5.1.2 Dolby Atmos, and it’s available on the movie you’re watching, that’s what you’ll get — but lesser components still get a version they can reproduce, too.
In addition to the picture and audio improvements, ATSC 3.0 also makes it possible to watch broadcast video on mobile devices like phones and tablets, as well as in cars. Advanced emergency alerts are also part of the standard, including better geotargeting, which means advancements like the ability to broadcast evacuation routes to areas that need that information.
Additionally, ATSC 3.0 utilizes Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplex (OFDM) as part of its core encoding, compared to the 8VSB encoding used for ATSC 1.0, which means that the transmission and reception of ATSC 3.0 content should encounter far less interference than older 1.0 broadcasts.
More than TVs nyul/123RF Given that more and more people now use their phones as their primary video devices, it’s no surprise that ASTC 3.0 has been designed with mobile in mind. One Media 3.0, a subsidiary of Sinclair Broadcast Group — big backers of the ATSC 3.0 standard — introduced mobile receiver chips in January 2019 and even created an Android prototype phone that uses them. However, there’s still no word on when we’ll actually be able to buy them (or if they’re any good).
There’s even talk of ATSC 3.0 being integrated with existing 5G cellular networks. In fact, in 2021, Sinclair Broadcast Group teamed with South Korea’s SK Telecom to create CAST.ERA , a Virginia-based broadcast solution that promises impressive picture upscaling, low-latency transmissions, and more.
So will your next iPhone be ATSC 3.0-compatible? Probably not. Given its investment in its own paid streaming platform, Apple TV+ , Apple doesn’t have a lot of incentive to provide customers with a free, high-quality broadcast option. But Android devices, especially those made by Samsung, Sony, and LG — the leading adopters of ATSC 3.0 in the TV world — could very well include the new standard in future models.
TV on wheels NextGen TV could also find its way into your next car. A working group within the ATSC organization is starting to evaluate how ATSC 3.0 can be used to transmit audio, video, and other data to moving vehicles.
The possibilities run the gamut, including in-car advertising, over-the-air software updates, mapping, and driverless vehicle automation — ATSC 3.0 could even act as a backup or replacement for GPS technology. It’s all in the early stages as carmakers and companies that own large vehicle fleets explore the options, but it’s clear from these discussions that ATSC 3.0 can be much more than just a way to get high-quality TV shows into your home.
Datacasting: Delivering more than audio and video The automotive discussion hinges on the fact that ATSC 3.0 can push huge volumes of data over its broadcast signals. That’s how it can scale picture and audio quality up to 4K HDR and Dolby Atmos. However, it turns out that the same bandwidth can be used to deliver a wide range of digital information that goes well beyond the ones and zeroes needed for television.
Since ATSC 3.0 uses Internet Protocol (IP) to deliver its A/V signals, it can broadcast any other kind of IP-based data, too. In theory, every home within reach of an ATSC 3.0 signal could get up to a 25Mbps IP data download, independent of their existing internet access.
Some have characterized this ability as Broadcast Internet, but that’s a misleading label. Unlike an actual internet connection, ATSC 3.0’s datacasting is one-way only, which means it can’t act as a substitute for your home or mobile internet data plans.
Still, the possibilities present with IP-based datacasting are intriguing. Almost 20 years ago, Microsoft unveiled a system called MSN Direct, which used FM frequencies to send small amounts of data to devices like Spot-equipped smartwatches.
 News headlines, sports scores, weather, and even personalized information like MSN Messenger texts and calendar reminders were all part of the platform.
Datacasting over ATSC 3.0 could massively expand these scenarios without the corresponding LTE/5G data fees that most of us pay for this kind of mobile data delivery.
A possible hurdle to the datacasting feature is that broadcasters may not want to get into the IP data delivery business. After all, it’s a very different business than the one they’ve traditionally operated. To address this, the FCC has scaled back on restrictions between broadcasters and third parties for the sake of innovation and expanding the reach of ATSC 3.0.
What are the downsides? ATSC 3.0 is not backward compatible with ATSC 1.0, which means that if your TV doesn’t include an ATSC 3.0 tuner (here’s a complete list of every TV that supports NextGen TV ), you’ll need an external converter to make use of those signals. You may only need a single ATSC 3.0 tuner for every TV in your house, however. Current ATSC 1.0 tuners like the Tablo or Fire TV Recast can redistribute HD OTA signals over your home network — via Ethernet or Wi-Fi — and there’s no reason ATSC 3.0 tuners couldn’t do the same thing.
One other possible downside, depending on how you look at it, is that the same geotargeting that allows for advanced emergency alerts can also be used for targeted ads. This means the ads you see on TV will start to more closely resemble what you see online. We’re not yet sure how this will play out for major advertising events like the Superbowl, but on the whole, if targeted ads don’t bother you on the web, they shouldn’t bother you on your TV.
How does it work? Image used with permission by copyright holder As mentioned above, ATSC 3.0 combines OTA broadcast signals with your home internet. At the base level, actual programming like shows and movies are broadcast and received over the air, while commercials, on-demand, and other premium content are provided over the internet. Three different video formats are supported: Legacy SD, which supports resolutions up to 720 x 480; Interlaced HD, which supports signals up to 1080i; and Progressive Video, which supports resolutions from 1080p up to 4K UHD.
What gear do I need? At a minimum, you will need an OTA antenna — we have a handy resource to help you find one if you don’t already own one — and an ATSC 3.0-compatible tuner.
Setting up an ATSC 3.0 tuner should be as easy as connecting it to your antenna’s cable and either plugging in an Ethernet cable or configuring it to use your home’s Wi-Fi.
Do I need a new antenna? Image used with permission by copyright holder No, all existing Digital HDTV OTA antennas are already capable of receiving ATSC 3.0 broadcasts. The number of stations you can receive will depend on various conditions like weather, your distance to the broadcast tower, and local geography. A more capable antenna might improve your reception.
Do I need internet access? No. Even though ATSC 3.0 OTA broadcasts are designed to work hand-in-hand with content delivered over the internet, you do not need an internet connection. Using just your antenna and an ATSC 3.0 tuner, you’ll be able to watch every local station that is broadcasting in the new standard. But many of the more interesting features of ATSC 3.0, like customized ads, on-demand content, interactivity, and premium content, will require an internet connection.
Despite sounding like a standard that is locked-in, ATSC 3.0 is actually still undergoing active development. This means that new features could be added at any time. Should that happen, your ATSC 3.0 tuner will need to receive a software update, and that will likely require an internet connection.
Am I going to need a new TV? The short answer is “no.” As explained above, if your TV doesn’t support ATSC 3.0, you’ll be able to get by with an external converter box. However, those external boxes will be hard to come by, at least in the short term.
Right now, we’re recommending SiliconDust’s HDHomeRun Flex 4K as our go-to ATSC 3.0 converter, which includes four tuners.
Tablo, another popular OTA tuner, has also released an ATSC 3.0 DVR, known formally as the ATSC 3.0 QUAD HDMI.
There’s also this converter from GeniaTech , but it’s mainly designed to plug into computers, not TVs.
If you happen to be in the market for a new TV and you want to future-proof yourself, several TV makers, including LG, Sony, Samsung, and now Hisense, are now selling ATSC 3.0-compatible TVs for the U.S. market.
LG, which has been actively involved in the development of ATSC 3.0, will offer ATSC 3.0 compatibility on both its G2 and Z2 OLED TV models.
 Hisense will offer ATSC 3.0 on all of its 2022 TVs except the U6 series.
Want a quick guide to guide to the transition? We’ve rounded up everything you’ll need to prepare for switching to ATSC 3.0.
What if I don’t care about ATSC 3.0? It’s worth mentioning that if you have no interest in the benefits of ATSC 3.0, you can simply stick with existing ATSC 1.0 broadcasts. Unlike the switch from analog NTSC video to digital ATSC video, which was a mandatory one, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) approved ATSC 3.0 in a way that allowed stations to broadcast in the new format on a voluntary basis. More to the point, stations that do voluntarily broadcast in ATSC 3.0 must continue to offer ATSC 1.0 signals for at least five years after the switch.
So, if you’re content with the status quo, there’s nothing forcing you to change, at least not in the near future.
When can we expect ATSC 3.0 to arrive? ATSC 3.0 is already here. In late 2021, Fox Television Stations and Nextstar Broadcast Group converted three Los Angeles stations to the ATSC 3.0 format, with similar station conversions carried out in Wisconsin this past January.
By the end of 2022, we can expect more markets across the country to get ATSC 3.0-broadcasting stations, according to ATSC.org.
 These include Fox television stations, NBCUniversal-owned television stations, Univision, SpectrumCo (whose members include Sinclair Broadcast Group and Nexstar Media Group), and others.
Is ATSC 3.0 available in my area? For an up-to-date look at the markets where ATSC 3.0 is available and which regions are on track for future deployments, check out this handy map from ATSC.org.
Keeping expectations in check As enthusiastic as we are about all of the benefits that ATSC 3.0 will bring, we don’t expect to see them immediately.
In Portland — one of the very first markets to begin 3.0 broadcasting — video resolution is currently restricted to HD, and it likely won’t look any different than current ATSC 1.0 signals.
According to the ATSC in 2020 , “The 3.0 hosts could eventually offer 1080p 60 HD with high dynamic range (HDR), pending available content from the networks, and maybe even 4K UHD,” but the dream of a full roster of channels broadcasting in 4K HDR around-the-clock is probably years away.
Editors' Recommendations New LG TVs could stop working with over-the-air broadcasts by 2027 Philo: Everything to know about the live TV streaming service 8K TV: Everything you need to know about television’s future What is HDMI 2.0b? Here’s everything you need to know Tablo’s latest over-the-air DVR does ATSC 3.0 — with a catch Entertainment TV Audio / Video Welcome to the vast world of TV acronyms! Let’s look at two very common terms that you will frequently run across when shopping for a new display: UHD and HDR. Yes, these terms both have “HD” in them, but how are they related? Which matters most when buying? Do you need them both? Let’s go over the common questions about UHD vs. HDR, and everything you should know! What does UHD mean? UHD stands for Ultra High Definition, a label for how many pixels a display has. This is in contrast to the older term FHD, or Full High Definition, which you may also know as 1080p (while HD is typically the lower-res 720p), referring to a pixel count of 1920 x 1080 pixels.
Deals You actually don’t need to browse Prime Day deals to recognize that there’s an entire new world of 4K TVs out there. High-definition TVs that just years ago cost thousands are now more affordable than ever. Take Hisense, a fan favorite brand, and its 43-inch H6570G 4K TV. It’s currently $41 off, making it only $229, down from its original price of $270. That’s a fantastic deal, but you’d better act quick; supplies won’t last long.
The thing is, you don’t need a giant TV for the complete entertainment experience. More often than not, a sizeable 43-inch screen is actually a better size for living room areas and apartments than a giant 65- or 75-inch screen, which can be overbearing, take up too much room, and be impossible to fade into the background.
Deals There is no shortage of fantastic Prime Day deals this year (or Black Friday TV deals for that matter), but we've been especially impressed by some of the Prime Day 4K TV deals we've discovered.
One deal, in particular, stands out: Amazon had deeply discounted Sony's excellent X900H 4K TV, which you can now buy in three different screen sizes for way less than their regular prices. Depending on the size, you can save up to 36% off the regular price.
55-inch Sony X900H 4K TV -- $950, was $1000: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
