Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best 4K Blu-ray players for 2023 By Derek Malcolm and Michael Bizzaco Close With such a focus on all the streaming services out there, it's easy to forget that one of the best ways to watch movies in stunning picture and sound quality, regardless of your internet speed or if you even have internet, is with a 4K Blu-ray player.
Several models of Blu-ray players can be had for very reasonable prices, and you can even find them in gaming consoles like the Xbox Series X or PlayStation 5, in case you already have one of those in your entertainment unit. Blu-ray players can play 4K Blu-rays, regular Blu-rays, DVDs, and even audio CDs, and they can pump out impressive HDR visuals through leading codecs like Dolby Vision , Dolby Atmos , and DTS:X for a truly cinematic experience at home.
Read on for our list of the best 4K Blu-ray players on the market. If you don't already have a TV in mind, you'll want to explore your options for those, too.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More Image used with permission by copyright holder Panasonic DP-UB420 The best overall 4K Blu-ray player Superb voice control capabilities Support for various hi-res audio formats All major streaming services supported Design and build is lackluster Panasonic has a long and healthy track record of producing some of the finest mid- to high-tier Blu-ray players, and the UB420 is the latest in its lineup of connoisseur-style hardware. The UB420 comes loaded with the latest premier video codecs, including HDR10+, HDR10, and HLG formats. Colors and overall vibrancy are taken a step further by Panasonic's Hollywood Cinema processor, which delivers a chroma-enriched 4K image.
For those who are looking to ditch the remote control, Panasonic has got you covered. The Panasonic UB420 is compatible with both Alexa and Google Assistant. Just connect the player to Wi-Fi and you'll be able to play/pause, stop, rewind/fast forward, and view media menus using nothing more than your voice.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Sony UBP-X800M2 The best for audio enthusiasts Sleek and minimalist design Bluetooth headphone streaming Dolby Vision support No HDR10+ support A little on the pricey side There was a lot to like about the original Sony UBP-X800 , but most notable was its use of both Dolby Atmos and DTS:X alongside Sony's excellent Digital Sound Enhancement Engine (DSEE HX), which allowed it to offer cinema-level sound in your home. Combined, these traits offer unmatched audio.
The only problem was the lack of Dolby Vision support, but Sony corrected that mistake for the newer UBP-X800M2, making it a high-octane option that needs to be in any serious home theater setup. You'll pay handsomely for the upgraded fidelity, but it's worth the peace of mind knowing your UHD Blu-ray collection will always look and sound its best.
With the aforementioned DSEE HX support, the Sony UBP-X800M2 is the best option for those who like to pipe a lot of music through their home theater system. The Blu-ray player neatly unpacks compressed audio formats like MP3 and FLAC, among others, to deliver hi-fi sound that's far more abstract than others are capable of. It almost makes us forget that Oppo's UDP-203 ever existed. Almost.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Panasonic DP-UB150 The best budget Ultra HD player Bright vibrant picture Great sound with support for Panasonic'sHighi-Res Audio Affordable No support for Dolby Vision Budget-pricing doesn't necessarily have to translate to a product's suite of features. This is especially true in the case of the Panasonic DP-UB150, a formidable player with the savvy shopper in mind. Right off the bat, the UB150 is capable of decoding three leading HDR codecs — HDR10, HDR10+, and HLG — ensuring that most of your HDR viewing will be top-notch. Additionally, Panasonic's 4K Chroma processing and HDR Optimizer are onboard to take picture quality to the next level. We also love how well the player handles 4K upscaling.
The UB150 is a decent player for audio playback, too, thanks in part to Panasonic's High-Res Audio Playback, designed to land you smack-dab in the middle of all your favorite songs and movie soundtracks. While there's no Dolby Vision support and a lack of streaming apps for those concerned with web content, the Panasonic DP-UB150 gets you more than just the bare necessities, functioning more like a mid-tier 4K player than a low-priced budget option.
More Hanif Jackson/Digital Trends, Getty Images Microsoft Xbox Series X The most fun 4K Blu-ray player Gobs of potential More storage than PS5 Accessible library through Game Pass Good value Lacking big exclusives Difficult to fit in most A/V cabinets Next-gen potential is untapped The Xbox Series X is the quintessential all-in-one box that can take over a living room. You can play video games at resolutions up to 4K with HDR10 for lifelike color, and then grab some popcorn to wind down and watch your favorite movies in stunning detail.
You might think that a gaming console would skimp on connections, but the Series X features three USB 3.0 ports, 5GHz wi-fi, an Ethernet port, S/PDIF ports, and a single HDMI 2.1 port.
Unlike most other Blu-ray players, the Xbox Series X never stops evolving. It has tons of streaming apps in the Xbox Store, all regularly updated with the latest user experience and features. Netflix offers Dolby Vision support, for instance, which not even the Blu-ray disc player inside can yet claim. System updates also come in more regularly than traditional Blu-ray players, often with sweeping changes that only add to the experience such as when Dolby Vision and Dolby Atmos eventually showed up (albeit in limited form).
While we consider it perverse not to pair your beautiful 4K TV with a console that takes full advantage of it, you may also want to check out the PS5.
 A competitor to the Xbox Series X, the PS5 features a built-in 4K Blu-ray drive, along with impressive hardware specs, speedy performance, and gorgeous next-gen graphics.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Sony BDP-S6700 The best 4K upscaling Superb upscaling from 1080p Blu-rays and DVDs 4K streaming from all the major streamers Smartphone control Design is a bit clunky While it can't handle Ultra HD Blu-ray discs, the Sony BDP-S6700 upscales your 1080p Blu-rays to show movies in higher detail on your 4K TV. This is a great option for someone who has amassed a sizable Blu-ray collection but isn't quite ready to reinvest in new hardware and media, especially with 8K looming. The BDP-S6700 also upscales DVDs to 1080p if you happen to have a few of those still laying around.
Although you can't enjoy UHD Blu-ray, the BDP-S6700 can stream 4K content from Netflix, Amazon Video, and more. The latest model has a better Wi-Fi chip that goes along with an Ethernet port to facilitate that.
With the Sony BDP-S6700 TV SideView app , you can control the user interface with your smartphone, though the included remote is decent enough that you might only use that feature when you lose it. The most exciting of the app's abilities is to beam your smartphone screen to your TV, which comes in handy for sharing personal and obscure content that you normally wouldn't be able to access with the player alone.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Panasonic DP-UB820 Best premium 4K Blu-ray player Similar to the Panasonic DP-UB420 Blu-ray player on our list, but takes it to the next level with support for Dolby Vision and, of course, HDR10+, HDR10, and HLG as well. It's a step down from Panasonic's flagship $980 DP-UB9000, but has the same digital processing features, meaning the color and contrast are stunning, especially on Dolby Vision Blu-ray discs. Panasonic's HCX (Hollywood Cinema Experience) processing is here, too, which can take the 4:2:0 color from your Blu-rays and reproduce in incredible 4:4:4 color content, which, again, equals an amazing picture.
The DP-UB820 also supports high-res audio with a digital-to-analog converter (DAC) that delivers up to 32-bit/192kHz audio for great audio, and it even supports a bunch of audio formats for listening to music, such as WAV, FLAC, MP3, AAC, WMA, and AIFF. Your streaming services like Netflix, Amazon Prime, and Hulu, can be accessed through the UB820, and it even works with Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant voice commands.
More Frequently Asked Questions Buying a new entertainment system is a significant investment, but even if you’re on a budget, you can find high-quality hardware that won’t break the bank. Because we make sure everything is worth the money, testing is a huge component of choosing the best 4K Blu-ray players. We begin each model year by bringing in the top-tier televisions from each major brand, including LG and Samsung. These premium televisions help set the highest standard for the year, manage expectations for each model below them, and provide much-needed context among the competitors.
We also test compatibility by connecting various media players to the best TVs we’re reviewing. We run tests for weeks and months to ensure no issues arise and all performance features work as they should.
We like to test similar models made by competing brands side-by-side to compare and contrast picture quality and other differences. We also double-check the specifications provided by each manufacturer for real-world context. The comprehensive evaluation we perform helps us reach an in-depth understanding of both players, to give as much information as possible.
We value providing the most thorough feedback available to our readers, which is why we take every measure possible to test every aspect of each player. You want to buy devices that will last as long as possible, so we only recommend those we truly stand behind.
Editors' Recommendations The best Sony TV Black Friday deals on 4K TVs, 8K TVs, and OLED TVs Best Samsung TV Black Friday Deals: Save on 4K and 8K TVs now Walmart’s Black Friday sale has a 50-inch 4K TV for $148 Best cheap headphones and earbuds 2023: Jabra, 1More, and others The best OLED TV of 2023 is $700 off: 77-inch LG C3 OLED Best Products Audio / Video Best Buy has one of the best TV deals for anyone looking for an inexpensive 4K TV. At the moment, you can buy the Samsung 55-inch TU690T 4K TV for only $350. That's a saving of $80 off the regular price of $430 making it a considerable bargain for anyone seeking a well-known branded TV. Read on while we take you through what else you need to know before you hit the buy button.
Why you should buy the Samsung 55-inch TU690T 4K TV While the Samsung 55-inch TU690T 4K TV won't be competing with the very best TVs, it is still well worth considering thanks to being made by one of the best TV brands. The TV offers all the essentials you could need and a little more on top.
Audio / Video You can go big with your home theater setup with some savings right now at Best Buy, as the 85-inch Samsung CU7000 4K TV is seeing an impressive discount. It’s currently marked down to just $900, putting it in competition with some of the best TVs under $1,000. This deal makes for $400 in savings, as the 85-inch model of the Samsung CU7000 regularly costs $1,300. It even comes with one free month of Xbox Game Pass Ultimate, as well as free shipping.
Why you should buy the Samsung 85-inch CU7000 4K Tizen TV You can’t really go wrong with a Samsung TV, as Samsung is almost always among the best TV brands. It makes several TVs that are among the best TVs or in competition to be considered such, and with the CU7000 4K Tizen TV, Samsung brings a lot of sought-after features to a lower price point. The 4K picture you’ll find on Samsung TVs is considered among the best, and with the CU7000 you’ll be getting PurColor technology, which creates a wider spectrum of colors than traditional RGB TVs, as well as Mega Contrast, which analyzes and adjusts each image as it appears on-screen.
Audio / Video Here's one of the most attractive TV deals that we've come across recently -- the 75-inch Toshiba C350 Series 4K TV for a very affordable price of $520, following a $280 discount from Best Buy on its original price of $800. With an average rating of 4.6 stars out of 5 stars after more than 1,000 reviews, you can be sure that you won't regret buying this 4K TV, especially for much cheaper than usual. You'll need to hurry though, because we're not sure how much time remains before stocks run out.
Why you should buy the 75-inch Toshiba C350 Series 4K TV You'll have to consult our guide on what size TV to buy if you have enough space for this gigantic display, but once you confirm that you do, there's no reason not to go for the 75-inch Toshiba C350 Series 4K TV if you can afford it. With such a large screen, you'll feel like you're watching movies in the theater, especially with the sharp details and bright colors provided by 4K Ultra HD resolution and High Dynamic Range in the form of Dolby Vision and HDR 10.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
