Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best 65-inch TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 By Andrew Morrisey Close If your eyes are squarely on buying a 65-inch TV, you need to check out TV deals with a focus on that size. That’s why we’ve listened all the best 65-inch TV deals currently available below, so you don’t have to go searching yourself. The TVs below cover a variety of different technologies as well as price ranges so there’s something for you regardless of what your plans are. Take a look below at what we’ve picked out.
Onn. 65-inch 4K TV — $298, was $348 TCL 65-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV — $400, was $600 Samsung 65-inch Q80C QLED TV — $1,000, was $1,400 LG 65-inch Class 85 Series QNED Mini-LED 4K TV — $1,200, was $1,400 LG 65-inch C3 Series OLED TV — $1,600, was $2,100 Sony 65-inch Bravia XR X93L Mini-LED 4K TV — $1,600, was $2,000 Samsung 65-inch QN800C Neo QLED 8K TV — $2,600, was $3,500 Onn. 65-inch 4K TV — $298, was $348 Onn.
The Onn. 65-inch 4K TV is a straightforward TV that’s ideal if you’re on a budget but still want a large TV. It has Roku Smart TV built-in so you have access to thousands of free or paid channels meaning an impressive amount of options of what to watch. There’s also voice control support via the Roku mobile app so you can easily speak commands instead of typing things in with the remote. Three HDMI ports are useful if you have many devices to hook up.
TCL 65-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV — $400, was $600 TCL The TCL 65-inch Q5 Q-Class QLED TV offers a QLED panel so you get a billion colors of richer and more lifelike images. It also has a high brightness direct LED backlight so you gain brighter images combined with support for Dolby Vision , HDR10+, HDR10 and HLG.
 Motion Rate 240 technology ensures smooth scrolling while there’s a Game Accelerator 120 mode for up to 120 VRR when gaming. During relaxing times, you can easily find something to watch thanks to Google TV and extensive voice assistant support.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Samsung 65-inch Q80C QLED TV — $1,000, was $1,400 Samsung Coming from one of the best TV brands means you’re onto a good thing with the Samsung 65-inch Q80C QLED TV. It has Quantum HDR + support so that you gain rich details and more immersive colors than ever before. There’s also 100% color volume with Quantum Dot technology along with Motion Xcelerator Turbo+ so you can enjoy smoother gaming and watching of fast moving scenes. A Direct Full Array panel adds to the quality being able to precisely control the amount of lighting across every part of the picture. It all leads to a truly gorgeous picture at all times.
LG 65-inch Class 85 Series QNED Mini-LED 4K TV — $1,200, was $1,400 LG Electronics The LG 65-inch Class 85 Series QNED Mini-LED 4K TV offers Quantum Dot NanoCell color technology to provide richer and more accurate colors. It has MiniLED backlighting to further help with brighter colors and deeper blacks, while there’s precision dimming which improves contrast and minimizes the halo effect. In conjunction with the a7 Gen 5 AI processor, there’s AI Picture Pro 4K technology which automatically enhances contrast and resolution with AI 4K upscaling and AI Tone Mapping. A dedicated Filmmaker and Game Mode both help with whatever you’re watching, plus there’s Dolby Vision IQ and Dolby Atmos support.
LG 65-inch C3 Series OLED TV — $1,600, was $2,100 LG OLED panels are able to have individually illuminated pixels so that you can have the brightest of moments on screen alongside incredibly deep blacks too. Improving upon its best OLED TV, the LG 65-inch C3 Series OLED TV now has Brightness Booster technology so you get improved brightness even in well-lit rooms. The dedicated Filmmaker and game optimizer modes are incredibly useful for providing you with a superior visual experience, while there are four HDMI 2.1 ports, Dolby Vision , and Dolby Atmos support. For many people, this will be the best TV to buy.
Sony 65-inch Bravia XR X93L Mini-LED 4K TV — $1,600, was $2,000 Zeke Jones/Digital Trends / Digital Trends The Sony 65-inch Bravia XR X93L Mini-LED 4K TV uses its thousands of mini LEDs to provide billions of accurate colors. They’re all precision controlled by the XR Backlight Master Drive and XR Triluminos Pro technology that Sony provides. It has a Cognitive Processor XR which helps provide wide dynamic contrast, detailed blacks, and natural colors. There are dedicated features for PS5 owners too with auto HDR Tone Mapping and Auto Genre Picture Mode for better quality while you game. There’s also support for Dolby Vision , IMAX Enhanced, Netflix Adaptive Calibrated Mode, and many other key features.
Samsung 65-inch QN800C Neo QLED 8K TV — $2,600, was $3,500 Samsung / .
To future proof you for a while to come, consider buying an 8K TV like the Samsung 65-inch QN800C Neo QLED 8K TV. It uses a grid of Samsung Quantum Mini LEDs with a billion colors and truly intense contrast. A Neural Quantum processor 8K upscales anything non-8K so you won’t have to worry about having limited content at your disposal. There’s also Neo Quantum HDR 8K+ support for superior HDR along with 100% Color Volume with Quantum Dot as you’d expect. Support for Dolby Atmos and Object Tracking Sound+ ensure you get a great aural experience too while you’re watching a movie or playing a game.
Editors' Recommendations The best Sony TV Black Friday deals on 4K TVs, 8K TVs, and OLED TVs The best 75-inch TV Black Friday deals on Samsung, Sony, and more All the best 65-inch TV Black Friday deals you can shop now Best Buy Black Friday TV deals: Save on LG, Samsung, Sony, and more The best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals right now Deals Cheapest Prices Audio / Video This is one of the most attractive OLED TV Black Friday deals in the market right now -- a $1,600 discount from Best Buy for the 77-inch Samsung S89C OLED 4K TV, which slashes its price from $3,600 to $2,000. It's still not cheap even with the savings, but this is the kind of purchase from Best Buy Black Friday TV deals that will totally transform your living room. We're not sure if this offer will remain online through to the shopping holiday though, so if you don't want to miss out, it's highly recommended that you complete the transaction immediately.
Why you should buy the 77-inch Samsung S89C OLED 4K TV You shouldn't underestimate how big the 77-inch Samsung S89C OLED 4K TV is -- you need to consult our guide on what size TV to buy if you have enough space for it. If you do, then you should be looking forward to watching the most popular shows and movies with 4K Ultra HD resolution, with the TV's Neural Quantum Processor with 4K Upscaling capable of upgrading the quality of all kinds of content. The Samsung S89C OLED 4K TV runs on the Tizen platform to grant you access to your favorite streaming services, and it even comes with the Samsung Gaming Hub that collects all video games streaming services in one place.
Audio / Video There's no shortage of QLED TV Black Friday deals this year, but it will be tough to find a better offer than Best Buy's lowered price for the 55-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV. Instead of $450, you'll only have to pay nearly half that following a $220 discount, for an eye-catching price of $230 for the shopping holiday. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase if you want to take advantage of the huge savings though, because we're pretty sure that this bargain is attracting a lot of shoppers. Proceed with the transaction now so that you don't miss out.
Why you should buy the 55-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV The TCL Q5 4K QLED TV features a 55-inch display with 4K Ultra HD resolution, which guarantees sharp details and lifelike colors when you're watching your favorite shows and movies, and it supports most advanced HDR formats for even better picture quality. Its built-in Google TV platform grants access to all of the most popular streaming services like Netflix and Disney+, while also making the TCL Q5 4K QLED TV compatible with voice commands through smart home devices that are running on Google Assistant or Amazon's Alexa.
Audio / Video If you looked at our article on the best early Samsung Black Friday deals and wanted more TV deals, you weren't alone. Samsung TVs are cool, integrate easily with Samsung soundbars, and are generally considered one of the best TV brands for their focus on accessibility. However, they are usually quite pricey. Take advantage of these deals to get one in your house at an affordable price.
This list doesn't cover Black Friday soundbar deals, but Samsung has quite a few offerings in that departments. Many of the options below come from Best Buy Black Friday TV deals, but Samsung itself has a lot to offer on their own site, which we've also dug into.
Best Samsung Black Friday deals on 4K TVs 4K TVs are of high quality and have been the mainstay in TVs for quite some time. Samsung makes some of the best, and they are among Samsung's most affordable offerings. Check out these Samsung 4K TV deals to snag something affordable: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
