Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Amazon Fire TV device you should buy in 2023 By Phil Nickinson Close When it comes to Amazon Fire TV and picking out which is the one you should get, it really comes down to one question. It’s not exactly a simple one, though.
What, exactly, do you need? Because here’s the thing about Amazon Fire TV devices: Most of them are ridiculously inexpensive. You can get a Fire TV Stick for as little as $20. But you probably shouldn’t. We’ll explain more in a minute. Or you could spend more like $100 and get a device — a cube, actually — that directly combines Fire TV with an Amazon Echo speaker that all hooks into your TV to make a cool sort of hybrid device.
Or you could spend a few hundred dollars to get a television that’s powered by Amazon Fire TV as the underlying operating system, with all the bells and whistles you’ll find in the other devices. None of that actually answers the question, though. Which is the best Amazon Fire TV device you should buy? Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends Fire TV Stick 4K Max The best for everyone Same great Fire TV experience Double the storage Improved processor Faster Wi-Fi Price is right Doesn't include the best Alexa remote Waiting on some new AI features Laggy interactions The Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K Max is a mouthful, and it’s the Fire TV Stick we think most folks should get if you’re looking to spend less than $100. It most recently saw a hardware refresh in September 2023 that really was a relatively minor spec bump. Faster processor. More RAM. Better Wi-Fi. It also supports Dolby Vision for HDR , and Dolby Atmos for audio.
 Those are all good things that will help future-proof the 4K Max (as we tend to call it for brevity) for a few years.
In addition to having the Fire TV operating system (as all Fire TV devices do, of course), the 4K Max currently is the only Fire TV Stick that includes Amazon’s Ambient Experience.
 That’s a cool combination of screen savers and widgets that actually give you something on your TV that you’d want to watch when you’re not watching anything else. If you’re a fairly frequent user of Amazon products, you’ll get a good bit of usefulness out of it beyond the backgrounds. And if none of them tickles your fancy, you can have it display your own photos.
The Fire TV Stick 4K Max retails for $60, but there’s a very good chance that you’ll be able to find it for less. (As we write this, we see it on sale for a mere $45.) Given how much more you get with this device over the lesser-capable (and, yes, even less expensive) Fire TV Sticks, we’d go ahead and pony up for this one. It’s that much better for not a lot more money.
More Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends Amazon Fire TV Cube The step-up Fire TV device Directly supports cable/satellite set-top boxes Same great Alexa integration Fire TV OS is good, if busy Incrementally better overall Less simplicity with so many features The step up (sort of) from the Fire TV Stick 4K Max is the Fire TV Cube. Currently in its third iteration and last updated in September 2022, the Fire TV Cube is sort of exactly what the name implies. Take a Fire TV Stick and built it up into cube form. Toss in a speaker and microphone array, and you now have a Fire TV device that allows you to do hands-free Alexa control. It supports 4K resolution, Dolby Atmos and Dolby Vision, too.
The most recent Fire TV Cube lets you use Alexa not just to answer questions or play music or games or control lights — it can now control your television or another connected devices, too, thanks to a little protocol called CEC. (That’s the same thing that lets your TV and soundbar and other devices all play nice with each other.) That’s a couple of legs up over the Fire TV Stick 4K Max. But it’s also more expensive, listed at $140. (Though sales prices will take it closer to $110.) Also note that it doesn’t yet have access to the Ambient Experience mentioned above.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Amazon Fire TV Omni QLED The TV option Excellent Fire TV experience Great smart home hub Adequate picture performance Fun features Lacks HDR punch Price-to-picture performance ratio is off If you’re in the market for a new television and definitely want it to just flat-out run Amazon Fire TV so you don’t have to plug in anything else, you’ve got a lot of options.
At the top of the pile is the Amazon Fire TV Omni QLED Series. They run from 43 inches retailing at about $450 to 75 inches at $1,100 retail. Once again, sales prices can lessen that a good bit.
The Omni Series QLED aren’t the best of the best when it comes to pure television tech, but they’re no slouch of a TV, either. Perfectly capable, with all the Fire TV and Alexa stuff you want. And they have the aforementioned Ambient Experience, with an added twist. The Omni Series TVs have an optical sensor that can tell when the room is empty and turn the TV off — then turn it back on and start the Ambient Experience when it sees you’re back in the room. Very cool.
We’re focusing on the best here, but it’s worth mentioning that there also are plenty other lesser models of Fire TV for even less money. Just with far fewer features.
So which one’s best? This is one of those times in which there isn’t a single, simple answer for which Fire TV device is best for you. It really does depend on what you want and how you intend to use it.
The Fire TV Stick 4K Max is the best of the low-cost sticks, and it really is the one we recommend. If you cheap out here, you’ll get a drastically lesser experience.
The Fire TV Cube is great if you want to combine an Amazon Echo speaker with a Fire TV experience. (Or you could get a $60 — or less! — 4K Max and combine it with an Echo Pop for even less and get pretty much the same experience.) And the Fire TV Omni QLED is our go-to for the best Fire TV-powered television experience.
So you’ve got a range of products at a range of prices for a range of uses. Choose wisely.
Editors' Recommendations Amazon Fire TV Black Friday deals: TVs, Fire Sticks, and more Usually $1800, this Samsung 70-inch QLED TV is discounted to $880 Save $800 on this 85-inch Sony TV in Best Buy’s early Black Friday sale LG Black Friday: Early deal saves you $800 on a 65-inch OLED TV This 65-inch Sony OLED TV is $600 off in Best Buy’s early Black Friday sale Amazon Best Products Audio / Video Here's one of the most attractive TV deals that we've come across recently -- the 75-inch Toshiba C350 Series 4K TV for a very affordable price of $520, following a $280 discount from Best Buy on its original price of $800. With an average rating of 4.6 stars out of 5 stars after more than 1,000 reviews, you can be sure that you won't regret buying this 4K TV, especially for much cheaper than usual. You'll need to hurry though, because we're not sure how much time remains before stocks run out.
Why you should buy the 75-inch Toshiba C350 Series 4K TV You'll have to consult our guide on what size TV to buy if you have enough space for this gigantic display, but once you confirm that you do, there's no reason not to go for the 75-inch Toshiba C350 Series 4K TV if you can afford it. With such a large screen, you'll feel like you're watching movies in the theater, especially with the sharp details and bright colors provided by 4K Ultra HD resolution and High Dynamic Range in the form of Dolby Vision and HDR 10.
Audio / Video If you’re looking for one of the best TVs under $500, you should take a look at the 50-inch Insignia F30 4K Fire TV. It comes in at well under that price point, as today it’s marked all the way down to just $200 at Best Buy. This is a savings of $100, as it would regularly set you back $300. It also comes with some enticing freebies. With a purchase of this TV you’ll get three free months of Apple TV+, a free month of FuboTV, and four months of SiriusXM.
Why you should buy the Insignia 50-inch F30 4K Fire TV Whether upgrading your home theater or building one from scratch, a 50-inch TV is a good size for almost any space, and the Insignia F30 4K Smart TV has a lot to offer on the stat sheet. Like all of the best TVs, it presents your favorite content in 4K resolution, and it’s even able to upscale older content into the 4K as you watch. HDR technology provides a wide range of color details and sharp contrast, making movies more immersive and things like sports more impactful. Versatile connectivity ports make it easy to connect home theater peripherals, which makes this TV a great option for gamers.
Audio / Video Is it time to upgrade your home theater system? The Super Bowl is closer than you think, and the NBA season just started. There are new blockbuster movies hitting streaming services everyday. Plus, TVs are not nearly as expensive as they were even five years ago. We've collected the bst of the best TV deals out there right now, including unmissable OLED TV deals and QLED TV deals. These deals come from top-of-the-line brands like LG and Samsung as well as budget options like Roku, Hisense and TCL.
40-inch Roku Select Series HDTV -- $180, was $230 If you're looking for a cheap 4K TV with all the features, and size doesn't matter, this 40-inch Roku is the perfect option -- you can stop reading now. This little smart TV is perfect for a dorm room, workspace or garage. It has Roku smart tech in it, so you can stream your favorite shows right from the TV without needing a cable box, console, or even a streaming stick. But please note: This is the only TV on this list that is not 4K, just FHD, or 1080p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
