Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Prime Day TV deals: 4K TVs, 8K TVs, QLED TVs, and OLED TVs By Andrew Morrisey Close The Amazon Prime Big Deal Days event is underway any day now but there are already some fantastic early Prime Day TV deals you can shop now. We’ve rounded them all up below so you can quickly find the right TV for your home and budget. Many of the TVs among the Prime Day deals going on are some of the best TVs around with deep discounts ensuring you can snap one up for a lot less than usual. We’re talking big name brands like Samsung, LG, and Sony along with mid-rangers such as TCL and Vizio.
Today’s best Prime Day TV deals Should you buy a TV on Prime Day 2023? How we selected these Prime Day TV deals The great deals go for whether you want a standard 4K TV, a QLED model, or something OLED-flavored. There are even some great TV deals on HDTVs if you want something small yet useful for your kid’s bedroom or a kitchen. Whatever your plan, let’s take a look at what’s on sale as part of the early Amazon Prime Big Deal Days event.
Today’s best Prime Day TV deals Should you buy a TV on Prime Day 2023? As with any purchase, you really need to think about whether you need a new TV. That’s even more important considering TVs aren’t cheap and they’re pretty big, too. Prime Day sales look super tempting but don’t be tempted by a purchase you simply don’t need, just because it’s cheap. Despite that warning, Prime Day is a good time to buy.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Generally, Prime Day is the biggest sales event of the year alongside Black Friday and Cyber Monday. Even better, it has the benefit of happening in the middle of the year rather than requiring you to wait until the very end when money may be tight because you’ve got gifts to pay for and the holiday season to manage. Even better, by buying now, you get to enjoy plenty of months of great TV time without having to keep on waiting until November.
Prime Day TV deals are usually on a par with Black Friday TV deals so you should end up saving a fair amount by buying now, compared to other sales events. The only catch is that the best offers will be at Amazon, meaning you’ll need to have a Prime membership. Still, we’re expecting to see Best Buy and Walmart offer up some great rival sales which should mean deep discounts for plenty of TV brands , whether you’re looking for a cheaper TCL unit or something with the latest tech from Samsung or LG.
Once you know you want a new TV, do your research. There’s a lot to catch up on so that you get the best TV for your needs. It’s a really good idea to learn about the best TV brands as you can’t really go wrong by buying a TV from one of these companies, regardless of your budget. From there, check out the best TVs right now. The list covers plenty of different price ranges and needs so there’s something for everyone here.
If you have a specific budget in mind then our lists of the best TVs under $1,000 and the best TVs under $500 will help, too. While you’re thinking on a practical level, figure out what size TV to buy for your living space as well. A huge TV is great but if you have a small space to place it, it can dwarf everything else and look unsightly. Plan well to get the best out of your home and your TV spending fund.
How we selected these Prime Day TV deals With so many TV deals around, how do we pick out which ones to highlight? We know what we’re looking for. Due to extensive historic price monitoring that means we’re always keeping an eye on the market throughout the year, so we know a good deal when we see one.
We also know all about TVs as you can see from our extensive coverage above. That means we know what features are must-haves and for what budget. We won’t expect a $200 bargain to have Dolby Atmos sound but something more premium? We won’t be happy to see that TV lacking Dolby Atmos ! Similarly, we appreciate that everyone needs a different-sized TV. We don’t all need an 85-inch giant when many of our living spaces will be happy with something much smaller. That’s why we include a wide range of TVs in our deals coverage.
Ultimately, we’re all about making sure you get the best value for your budget. If you spot a TV for $400 in our roundup, it’s the best one for the price around. Similarly, if you’re investing $1,500, you’re getting a winner with all the features you could want for the price like exceptional picture quality and great audio features too.
Editors' Recommendations The best Sony TV Black Friday deals on 4K TVs, 8K TVs, and OLED TVs Best Samsung TV Black Friday Deals: Save on 4K and 8K TVs now Early Black Friday deal knocks 25% off this massive 98-inch 4K TV 55-inch Samsung 4K TV is under $300 in Walmart’s Black Friday sale The best OLED TV of 2023 is $700 off: 77-inch LG C3 OLED Deals Amazon Amazon Prime Day Cheapest Prices TV Audio / Video If you've been thinking about upgrading your home theater setup -- and you're willing to splurge -- you should check out the 65-inch LG B2 OLED 4K TV. From its original price of $2,300, it's down to $1,500 -- it's still not what you'd call cheap, but the $800 in savings is among the largest that you can get from the OLED TV deals that you can shop today. You're going to have to act fast if you're interested though, as we're not sure how much time is remaining on this massive discount.
Why you should buy the 65-inch LG B2 OLED 4K TV OLED, which is still considered the premier display technology today, is the calling card of LG as one of the best TV brands, so you know that you'll be getting a top-quality TV with the LG B2 OLED 4K TV. With a 65-inch screen featuring 4K Ultra HD resolution for sharp details and lifelike colors, and powered by LG's a7 Gen5 AI Processor 4K that adjusts picture and sound for the best possible viewing experience, the LG B2 OLED 4K TV will transform your living room into your personal cinema. The OLED TV also runs on LG's webOS 22, so you'll never run out of things to watch through all of the popular streaming services.
Audio / Video Best Buy has one of the best TV deals for anyone looking for an inexpensive 4K TV. At the moment, you can buy the Samsung 55-inch TU690T 4K TV for only $350. That's a saving of $80 off the regular price of $430 making it a considerable bargain for anyone seeking a well-known branded TV. Read on while we take you through what else you need to know before you hit the buy button.
Why you should buy the Samsung 55-inch TU690T 4K TV While the Samsung 55-inch TU690T 4K TV won't be competing with the very best TVs, it is still well worth considering thanks to being made by one of the best TV brands. The TV offers all the essentials you could need and a little more on top.
Audio / Video You can go big with your home theater setup with some savings right now at Best Buy, as the 85-inch Samsung CU7000 4K TV is seeing an impressive discount. It’s currently marked down to just $900, putting it in competition with some of the best TVs under $1,000. This deal makes for $400 in savings, as the 85-inch model of the Samsung CU7000 regularly costs $1,300. It even comes with one free month of Xbox Game Pass Ultimate, as well as free shipping.
Why you should buy the Samsung 85-inch CU7000 4K Tizen TV You can’t really go wrong with a Samsung TV, as Samsung is almost always among the best TV brands. It makes several TVs that are among the best TVs or in competition to be considered such, and with the CU7000 4K Tizen TV, Samsung brings a lot of sought-after features to a lower price point. The 4K picture you’ll find on Samsung TVs is considered among the best, and with the CU7000 you’ll be getting PurColor technology, which creates a wider spectrum of colors than traditional RGB TVs, as well as Mega Contrast, which analyzes and adjusts each image as it appears on-screen.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
