Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: What is Roku? Best Roku TVs How to Pair a Roku Remote The Roku Channel How to Use AirPlay on Roku Best Roku Devices Star Button on Roku Remote Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Roku TVs of 2023: which should you buy? By Michael Bizzaco and Derek Malcolm Close Roku TV is a smart TV platform and user interface that can be found on Roku’s first-party streaming devices and compatible QLED and LED TVs. Our focus today is on the latter, and fortunately some pretty awesome brands have signed their souls away to the Big R. As it stands, TCL is the kingpin of Roku-powered TVs, but depending on where you’re shopping, you’ll also be able to find some other noteworthy companies to grab a Roku TV from. These are mostly budget-friendly names like Hisense, Westinghouse and Roku themselves, but “budget-friendly” doesn’t translate to “low quality.” In fact, some of these Roku TVs are pretty dang great when it comes to things like HDR performance.
If you're looking for a sale, take a look at some of the best TV deals.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More Riley Young TCL 6-Series (2022) The best overall Roku TV Punchy HDR brightness and color Minimal backlight blooming Good motion resolution Great viewing angles Intuitive Roku interface Requires adjustment for best picture Struggles to clean up low-quality content TCL's 6-Series (R655) holds its spot at the top of this list with the 2022 model of its stellar 4K mini-LED TV. The 55- and 65-inch sizes both come in at an insanely affordable sub-$1,000, making them an obvious choice. But let's dig in.
TCL took more of an "if it's not broken, don't fix it approach" to the 2022 model of the 6-Series, but has made some welcome changes. It's the brightest 6-Series TCL has ever made, delivering Dolby Vision, HDR10, HDR10+, and HLG contrast at just under 1,500 nits peak brightness in our tests, with minimal blooming and great color. In short, this thing is stunning.
And while the 6-Series' black levels and contrast aren't quite as good as the best QLED and OLED TV models , the gap has never been smaller. It's an accomplishment that is all the more remarkable when you consider the price.
The latest TCL 6-Series, like its predecessor, is also Dolby Atmos-capable , which isn't going to mean a thing if you're planning on using the built-in speakers in the TV (who does that anyway?), but it will ensure you'll get amazing surround sound when and if you add a soundbar or AV receiver setup.
Gamers will appreciate the 6-Series too, as it supports AMD FreeSync Premium Pro for color accuracy and contrast, as well as a variable refresh rate (VRR) of up to 144Hz to fend off lag and stutter during gameplay and to ensure smooth gaming. There's also an auto gaming mode that adjusts the picture mode automatically when you get after it.
This Roku Smart TV also has a voice-capable Roku remote control that lets you issue commands like "start Netflix" to control TV functions or "Margot Robbie" to search for all movies and shows that feature the actor. Alexa and Google Assistant compatibility give you access to many similar voice commands through a smart speaker if you already own one, and Apple AirPlay compatibility lets you share stuff off your iPhone to the TCL TV.
Roku Roku 55-inch Class Plus Series QLED A Roku and Best Buy exclusive High brightness Brilliant color Snappy operation Impressive sound Great remote Poor off-angle performance Contrast suffers in high-brightness scenes Some motion blur This amazing Roku deal can only be found at Best Buy, but if you’ve been looking for a breathtaking QLED TV that looks and performs like a high-priced Samsung or Sony, but at a much lower price, you’re in the right ball park with the Roku Class Plus Series. Available in 55-, 65-, and 75-inch sizes, the Class Plus Series supports HDR10+ and Dolby Vision, so if you’re really into streaming 4K movies from services like Netflix and Prime Video, you’ll get to experience a whole new world of brightness, colors and contrast. That’s on top of QLED lighting, a type of LED that is renowned for delivering strong peak brightness levels.
There are also four HDMI inputs to connect all your go-to AV devices to, and the onboard speakers are Dolby Atmos-certified. One little bummer is that the refresh rate only tops out at 60Hz, and unlike its competition, there doesn’t seem to be any digital motion enhancement tools built into the Plus Series to give a boost to the TV’s overall motion clarity. While gamers and sports enthusiasts may want to look for a Roku TV that delivers 120Hz, the Roku 55-inch Class Plus Series is still a great option for less action-oriented content.
Roku Roku 65-inch Class Select Series Another solid first-party option Available in a range of sizes HDR10+ support Has four HDMI inputs Awesome price Works with Alexa, Google Assistant and Apple HomeKit Only 60Hz refresh rate Roku Class Plus Series QLED delivers a brighter and more colorful picture Only sold at Best Buy Another Best Buy exclusive, the Roku 65-inch Class Select Series is one step down from the Roku Class Plus Series. Now in terms of picture, we’re betting you’re wondering where this set takes a ding or two? Mostly it’s just in the LED-lighting style department. The Plus Series is a QLED model , which means the overall brightness is a bit stronger and the black levels a little bolder. The Class Select Series uses regular LED lighting, which still delivers a pretty great picture, especially when watching HDR10+ content (no Dolby Vision support here though).
As far as motion clarity goes, like the Plus Series, the Select only delivers up to 60Hz across its four HDMI inputs, but you’ll still have access to Alexa, Google Assistant and Apple HomeKit, as well as Roku’s incredible smart TV platform. The Select Series also costs a bit less than the Plus, with this 65-inch model going for $200 less than its higher-priced sibling (in the 65-inch size). The TV is also available in sizes as small as 43 inches and as large as 75 inches.
https://www.amazon.com/Hisense-43-Inch-Vision-Compatibility-43R6G/dp/B09ZQ6NQNR?th=1 Hisense 43-inch RG6 Roku TV Great for gaming Great picture for the price HDR10 and HDR10+ support Works with Alexa, Google Assistant and HomeKit Integrated Game Mode Only 60Hz refresh rate We’re seeing more and more Hisense TVs these days, and if you’ve been on the lookout for a midsized Roku TV that delivers a punchy picture and great streaming capabilities, the Hisense 43-inch R6G should definitely be a consideration. Unlike other TVs at this size and price, this Roku TV has built-in support for Alexa, Google Assistant and Apple HomeKit, allowing you to control smart home devices from the comfort of your bed or living room couch. You’ll also be able to enjoy some exceptional color and contrast detail with the R6G’s HDR10 and HDR10+ support (no Dolby Vision though).
As far as motion clarity goes, this is another set that tops out at 60Hz, but don’t let that deter you. When watching TV on a smaller screen (like this one), having that treasured 120Hz refresh rate is a little less important. Plus, Hisense thought to include a digital motion accelerator called Motion Rate 120; in addition to an integrated Game Mode that helps to reduce input lag. Oh, and of course you’ll have access to Roku TV for all things streaming! More TCL 4-Series 55S455 The best value for size Roku OS easy to use Great 4K value for the size Four HDMI inputs HDR10 and HLG support Only tops out at 60Hz Poor off-angle viewing If you've been wanting to invest in a new TV, and want a good-sized screen for a rock-bottom price, the TCL 55-inch 4-Series is your dream come true. Topping out at 4K resolution, even if you're not watching something in native UHD, the 4-Series will do a fantastic job at upscaling HD and SD content to give it more clarity, pop, and punch.
On top of four HDMI inputs and HDR10 and HLG support, the 4-Series is also compatible with Google Assistant, Alexa, and Siri, and even includes a game mode that automatically optimizes picture quality for next-gen consoles like the PS5 and Xbox Series X.
It's not the strongest TV in terms of overall motion performance (only 60Hz refresh rate) and HDR capabilities, and there are some handy picture adjustments tucked away in the Roku companion app, but that doesn't mean you should steer clear. In fact, for the price and range of features, the TCL 55-inch 4-Series is an absolute steal.
More Frequently Asked Questions For several years, Roku in North America has primarily been built into TCL and Hisense TVs, which is why they have dominated our list. Hisense only has a handful of Roku TVs left on its roster, signaling that the brand may be leaving Roku behind. The big news of 2023, though, is that Roku launched its own TVs.
It's always a good idea to start with your budget and how much space you have for a new TV (remember, screen size measurements generally refer to the diagonal length on TVs). Our guide here focuses on the Roku TV platform. If you don't need a smart TV platform — for example, if you use the interface on a game console or set-top box – then this isn't much of a consideration. But if you will be using the smart TV platform, it's a very important choice.
Google TV, for example , is a common alternative to Roku TV. Take some time to look at interfaces and think about what you want! After that, it's time to think about panel types, such as QLED versus OLED , resolution, and other important specs.
Check out our TV buying guide for more information.
We'll make this one easy for you: Check out our guide to the latest Roku deals.
 We keep it constantly updated so you know exactly what discounts look like! Thinking about the differences between Roku TV and Apple TV? There are several things you should know: These Roku TVs have Roku's user interface as a built-in platform. The Apple TV is a separate set-top box device that connects to a TV – there are no TVs with Apple's tvOS built in (at least not in the same way). Roku has its set-top boxes as well, but the advantage of these TVs is that you don't need another Roku streaming device.
Apple TV is a streaming device generally designed to supplement an existing TV, doesn't need a smart TV to work, and can easily be moved between TVs, which is an advantage to using a set-top box versus a built-in platform. You will need an HDMI port to connect it.
If you're an Apple fan, there's some good news: Roku TVs generally support the Apple TV app, which allows you to stream Apple TV+ , so you can still watch Apple shows.
However, features like Apple Arcade and Apple Fitness only are available on an Apple TV set-top device, so there are some limitations there.
No, the Roku platform itself is free to use. You can still stream from apps like Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, etc., without worrying about having to pay a Roku fee (as long as you are managing subscriptions for those individual services). These days, Roku doesn't offer much in the way of subscription services, so it's unlikely you'll ever have to pay Roku an ongoing fee after you have purchased your TV or device.
Yes, although that depends on what your definition of normal TV is. You can connect your TV to a receiver, set-top box, or cable box and watch TV that way, just as you would with any other TV. You can also connect an antenna and watch any free channels that you can pick up in your area. There is no requirement to use the Roku platform itself unless you want to stream apps and channels directly from your TV.
The first place you should go for free streaming content is The Roku Channel.
 Roku offers most content on this channel for free and includes a broad amount of content, from kids' shows to popular movies of decades past. There's some premium content on this channel that you have to pay for, but the majority of it is free to watch. Roku also supports other apps that don't require a subscription, including popular options like Crackle, Pluto TV, Tubi, and others.
However, the popular third-party streaming apps — Netflix, Disney+, etc. – that require subscriptions to watch will still require fees when used on Roku. You will need to sign in with your account information when first opening these apps.
No. The Roku platform will require an internet connection to work, usually through Wi-Fi. That doesn't mean you can't use your TV, but none of the smart features Roku offers will be able to function without an internet connection.
Yes, many Roku TVs work with AirPlay and HomeKit, so it's quite Apple-friendly. You may also be able to cast to a Roku from an Android device, although this can vary.
Editors' Recommendations This Samsung 77-inch OLED TV is $1,600 off for Black Friday Best Roku Black Friday deals: Save on TVs and streaming hardware The best OLED TV of 2023 is $700 off: 77-inch LG C3 OLED This 85-inch Samsung 4K TV just got a massive price cut This 65-inch Sony OLED TV is $600 off in Best Buy’s early Black Friday sale Entertainment Best Products Roku TV Audio / Video Here's one of the most attractive TV deals that we've come across recently -- the 75-inch Toshiba C350 Series 4K TV for a very affordable price of $520, following a $280 discount from Best Buy on its original price of $800. With an average rating of 4.6 stars out of 5 stars after more than 1,000 reviews, you can be sure that you won't regret buying this 4K TV, especially for much cheaper than usual. You'll need to hurry though, because we're not sure how much time remains before stocks run out.
Why you should buy the 75-inch Toshiba C350 Series 4K TV You'll have to consult our guide on what size TV to buy if you have enough space for this gigantic display, but once you confirm that you do, there's no reason not to go for the 75-inch Toshiba C350 Series 4K TV if you can afford it. With such a large screen, you'll feel like you're watching movies in the theater, especially with the sharp details and bright colors provided by 4K Ultra HD resolution and High Dynamic Range in the form of Dolby Vision and HDR 10.
Audio / Video If you’re looking for one of the best TVs under $500, you should take a look at the 50-inch Insignia F30 4K Fire TV. It comes in at well under that price point, as today it’s marked all the way down to just $200 at Best Buy. This is a savings of $100, as it would regularly set you back $300. It also comes with some enticing freebies. With a purchase of this TV you’ll get three free months of Apple TV+, a free month of FuboTV, and four months of SiriusXM.
Why you should buy the Insignia 50-inch F30 4K Fire TV Whether upgrading your home theater or building one from scratch, a 50-inch TV is a good size for almost any space, and the Insignia F30 4K Smart TV has a lot to offer on the stat sheet. Like all of the best TVs, it presents your favorite content in 4K resolution, and it’s even able to upscale older content into the 4K as you watch. HDR technology provides a wide range of color details and sharp contrast, making movies more immersive and things like sports more impactful. Versatile connectivity ports make it easy to connect home theater peripherals, which makes this TV a great option for gamers.
Audio / Video Is it time to upgrade your home theater system? The Super Bowl is closer than you think, and the NBA season just started. There are new blockbuster movies hitting streaming services everyday. Plus, TVs are not nearly as expensive as they were even five years ago. We've collected the bst of the best TV deals out there right now, including unmissable OLED TV deals and QLED TV deals. These deals come from top-of-the-line brands like LG and Samsung as well as budget options like Roku, Hisense and TCL.
40-inch Roku Select Series HDTV -- $180, was $230 If you're looking for a cheap 4K TV with all the features, and size doesn't matter, this 40-inch Roku is the perfect option -- you can stop reading now. This little smart TV is perfect for a dorm room, workspace or garage. It has Roku smart tech in it, so you can stream your favorite shows right from the TV without needing a cable box, console, or even a streaming stick. But please note: This is the only TV on this list that is not 4K, just FHD, or 1080p.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
