Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Samsung TV deals: Save on QLED and OLED TVs By Andrew Morrisey Close Samsung is almost universally amongst the best TV brands , which makes its lineup of 4K TVs a good option if you’re looking to expand, upgrade, or start from scratch a home theater setup. A new Samsung 4K TV actually makes a great way to save as well, as there are a lot of Samsung TV deals taking place right now. We’ve tracked down the best available, so whether you’re comparing between QLED and OLED TVs or want to ensure you get something that compares with the best TVs , read onward, as there’s likely a deal available for you.
Samsung 50-inch Q60C QLED 4K TV — $580, was $600 Samsung 75-inch TU690T Crystal UHD 4K TV — $580, was $750 Samsung 55-inch Q70C QLED 4K TV — $850, was $1,000 Samsung 70-inch Q60C QLED 4K TV — $950, was $1,200 Samsung 50-inch The Frame QLED 4K TV — $999, was $1,297 Samsung 65-inch Q80C QLED 4K TV — $1,000, was $1,400 Samsung 85-inch CU7000 Crystal UHD 4K TV — $1,100, was $1,300 Samsung 65-inch S90C OLED 4K TV — $1,600, was $2,100 Samsung 50-inch Q60C QLED 4K TV — $580, was $600 Samsung As owners of any one of the best QLED TVs can attest, QLED technology produces one of the best 4K images available on the market right now. It utilizes dual LEDs and Quantum Dot color to create lifelike images, and an overall immersive home theater experience. This Samsung 50-inch QLED 4K TV comes in at a good size for just about any room, as it’s not too big and not too small. It’s able to upscale older content into the modern clarity of 4K resolution, and picture quality is heightened with Quantum HDR technology. Smart TV capabilities include compatibility with voice assistants, object tracking for 3D surround sound, and easy access to built-in streaming services.
Samsung 75-inch TU690T Crystal UHD 4K TV — $580, was $750 Samsung The 75-inch model of the Samsung TU690T 4K TV is a good option if you want to go big with your home theater. It does all of the things you’d expect from a modern 4K Tv, including upscale all of your favorite content into 4K with a Crystal Processor 4K.
 Life with this TV is made easy with things like Alexa and Google Assistant compatibility, which give you control of the TV with voice commands. This TV also has a universal guide, which gives you tailored recommendations for streaming and live TV content all in one place.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
Samsung 55-inch Q70C QLED 4K TV — $850, was $1,000 Samsung With the Q70C Samsung starts to introduce more advanced features to its 4K TVs. It’s capable of 4K upscaling and compatible with voice commands, but this TV also has technology to provide better image quality, such as Motion Xcelerator Turbo+. This technology keeps the picture from breaking apart during fast-paced sequences like action movies or sports events, and it even makes this a good TV option for gamers. You can even stream your favorite games right from the TV with Samsung Gaming Hub. This TV is incredibly slim and comes with a SolarCell Remote that helps you navigate all of your content.
Samsung 70-inch Q60C QLED 4K TV — $950, was $1,200 Samsung The 70-inch model of the Samsung Q60C offers a larger viewing area than its smaller counterparts, but still includes the lifelike image of QLED technology. At 70-inches you’re looking at something that feels much more like a home theater, and makes a great option for breaking in with the best new movies on Netflix, Hulu, Prime, Max, and more.
 This TV uses a Quantum Processor to upscale everything you watch into 4K resolution in real time, ensuring you’re always watching with the highest possible image quality in front of you.
Samsung 50-inch The Frame QLED 4K TV — $999, was $1,297 Samsung Samsung’s The Frame TV is always one of the more unique 4K TV options to choose from. It’s subtle and beautiful, yet keeps image quality at the top of its priorities. It has an Art Mode that displays artwork when you aren’t watching TV, the art of which you can curate from your own photos and artwork, or choose artwork from the Art Store, which has more than 1,400 new and classic works of art to choose from. This TV is the minimalist’s dream come true, as it has changeable bezels that attach magnetically, and a single slim cable is all the TV needs.
Samsung 65-inch Q80C QLED 4K TV — $1,000, was $1,400 Samsung Samsung’s QLED picture quality is on full display with the Q80C 4K TV. It has a Neural Quantum Processor for 4K upscaling, and super precise LEDs offer incredible contrast, even in bright rooms. Quantum HDR + offers more immersive colors, and Dolby Atmos and Object Tracking provide superior audio quality. This TV even has Q-Symphony 3.0, which allows for greater sound when pairing a Samsung soundbar with this TV, one of which you can find among the best soundbars.
Samsung 85-inch CU7000 Crystal UHD 4K TV — $1,100, was $1,300 Samsung The Samsung CU7000 4K TV delivers amazing 4K picture quality with Crystal UHD technology, and it’s able to upscale older content into the modern 4K resolution as you watch. Its smart capabilities are powered by Tizen, which gives you instant access to many of the most popular streaming platforms. This TV works with Alexa , making it easy to integrate your Alexa-enabled devices and expand your smart home setup. It also works with Google Assistant , which allows you to change channels, adjust volume, and control playback with just your voice, as well as Apple AirPlay 2 , which allows you to share content from Apple devices on the TV.
Samsung 65-inch S90C OLED 4K TV — $1,600, was $2,100 Samsung OLED picture technology is an alternative to all of the QLED TVs we’ve seen so far. It’s every bit as good as QLED, providing incredible detail and unbelievable screen brightness. This TV has a ton of bells and whistles we’ve seen scattered across other Samsung TVs. It has a Neural Quantum Processor for 4K upscaling, Dolby Atmos and Object Tracking Sound to create an immersive audio experience, and Motion Xcelerator Turbo Pro that keeps your image from lagging or breaking apart during fast-paced action or heavy gaming playback. This TV comes in at a good size at 65-inches, and it’s super slim, making it a good option to put at the center of nearly any home theater.
Editors' Recommendations The best Sony TV Black Friday deals on 4K TVs, 8K TVs, and OLED TVs The best 70-inch TV Black Friday deals from LG, Samsung, and more The best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals right now Best Buy is almost giving away this 55-inch QLED TV today Best Samsung TV Black Friday Deals: Save on 4K and 8K TVs now Deals Cheapest Prices Samsung TV Audio / Video If you're always looking for the next advancement in TV tech, you're likely familiar with the concept of 8K television. You probably know that TVs of this style are quite expensive, though, so may have been waiting for prices to die down before buying one. That's a logical approach, and it may be a couple of years yet before 8K programming becomes available to the masses, but with Black Friday deals already here for 2023 the shopper with an eye on the ground has a chance to get one for a steal this year. Arranged by brand, these are our favorite Black Friday TV deals on 8K TVs.
If you haven't completed your home theater setup yet, pair your 8K TV with Black Friday soundbar deals.
Best LG 8K TV Black Friday deals Audio / Video You may or may not be aware, but out of all the different types of TV technologies QLED vs OLED panels are totally different. QLED stands for Quantum Light-Emitting Diode which means it uses millions of nanoparticles or Quantum Dots to supercharge its color, delivering a vibrant, gorgeous picture. You can read our quantum dot explainer to learn how it all works in more detail. The bigger dilemma, at least right now, is that QLED panels tend to be very expensive, unless you can grab them at a hefty discount. You'll want to listen up, though, because at this very moment there are a ton of early Black Friday deals to shop. Many of those deals even offer eye-popping discounts on QLED TVs from some of the biggest brands on the market like Samsung, TCL, Vizio, and more. We've rounded up all the best, and it can't hurt to take a look. Since it's discount season, make sure to compare these prices with OLED TV Black Friday deals as well.
The best QLED TV Black Friday deal We tend to go with a more affordable option when picking out the "best" deals, and this pick is no exception, but don't let that fool you. TCL has made an excellent TV with a lot of great features, like the superior 4K quality resolution, mini-LED technology with uncompromising contrast and brightness, and hands-free voice controls accessible via Google Assistant. But it all hearkens back to that price, and man is that price juicy. Don't sleep on this one.
Audio / Video If you don't already know, OLED and QLED panels are totally different, with OLED including millions of individually lit pixels. That allows them to be more vibrant than other panel technologies, but also during dark scenes, you get true blacks because the lights are actually turned off, rather than just dimmed. Unfortunately, OLED panels are expensive, unless you can find some excellent deals. Don't turn away just yet, though, because there are a ton of early Black Friday deals to shop right now -- across many retailers -- and some even included some great discounts on OLED TVs. In fact, we've rounded up all of the best OLED TV Black Friday deals we could find, including one stand out that pretty much everyone should consider.
If an OLED display is just too far out of your price range, you should also check out QLED TV Black Friday deals. Best Buy Black Friday TV deals include a wide variety of options, if you want to compare prices across TV categories.
The best OLED TV Black Friday deal Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
