Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video News Samsung looks for an ‘Age of Togetherness’ with new Frame, Neo QLED TVs By Phil Nickinson Close Samsung kicks off CES 2022 doing what Samsung does best — taking its line of many televisions, already great in their own right, and kicking things up yet another notch. Smarter, brighter, better, easier to use — all the things that make a TV more than a TV in an era in which we’re spending more time in front of the TV than ever.
Samsung On the front side of things is a new home screen, “a testament to our vision for the future of TVs.” Samsung is paring things down to three main hubs — a Media Screen, a Gaming Hub, and Ambient Mode. They’re mostly self-explanatory. If it’s something you’re going to watch (via Samsung’s built-in apps, anyway), you’ll get to it from the Media Screen.
The Gaming Hub gets you into your cloud-based gaming services and consoles and works with existing third-party controllers and headsets. And the Ambient Mode makes it easier than ever to have something pleasant on the screen when you’re not actively watching or playing something. That includes art, or photos, or even NFTs, because it’s 2022 and it’s all about non-fungible tokens, apparently.
Samsung’s 2023 Neo QLED TVs start at $1,200 — and you can buy them this week Samsung debuts world’s smallest and most affordable microLED TV at CES 2023 New Amazon Fire TV Omni QLED displays art, senses your presence The Frame remains Samsung’s showpiece TV, meant to look as great when you’re not watching a movie or show as it does when it’s displaying art. It gets a new “Art Store” user experience that is exactly what it sounds like — making it easy to show all sorts of art on The Frame on a regular basis. It’s got a new anti-reflective display the company claims makes art look even more realistic than ever, and new sizes mean you can go from 32 inches all the way to 85 inches — whatever your wall and your wallet can handle.
Samsung The 2022 line of Neo QLED models packs all kinds of mini-LED tech into 4K and 8K sets and all-new Shape Adaptive Light Control. Brightness is now more accurate and revealing of detail, with a mini-LED backlight system that jumps from 12 bits to 14 bits (more is better), and there’s a new Object Depth Enhancer feature that uses the processor to analyze what’s on-screen and help make the subject more distinguishable than the background.
Gamers will be excited to learn that 144Hz refresh rates will be coming to Neo QLED models as well. While the tech may only be useful to those with extremely high-end gaming PCs capable of high refresh rates at 4K, it’s still exciting to see the thin line separating TVs and high-end gaming monitors growing increasingly faint.
The Neo QLEDs also ramp things up in the audio department with features like Active Voice Amplifier, Object Tracking Sound, and SpaceFit Sound. And if you’re using a Samsung Q950B Soundbar, it’ll pair with the TV’s speakers for an even better surround sound experience.
On the MicroLED front, expect a bezel-free experience at massive, customizable sizes all the way up to 178 inches, at which point we’re probably better off measuring the screen in terms of acres. Pre-made models include 99- and 110-inch options, as well as a new 89-inch model. There’s a 10% wider color space on paper, thanks to the 24.9 million micro-sized LEDs. And the MicroLED sets feature Dolby Atmos and Samsung’s own Object Tracking Sound Pro feature, which projects audio according to what’s on-screen.
And in the hand we’ve got a new remote control. The updated “Eco Remote” uses a “recycled material design,” and includes solar and RF harvesting for a “battery free experience.” Never mind that there almost certainly is a battery in there, it’s just that you won’t ever have to think about it. If it’s getting some light, the solar side of things goes to work. If not, the RF converter takes over. And it’ll now be available in white as well as black. It’s also light on buttons, if you’re the sort who wonders why a numerical set still exists in the 21st century.
Finally, let’s circle back to the NFT thing.
 Samsung has built what it says is the world’s first television screen-based NFT explorer and aggregator, so you can preview, purchase, and then view an artistic NFT right there on your TV. If that’s your sort of thing.
Editors' Recommendations I went hands-on with Samsung’s two best new QLED TVs, and one of them stunned me Samsung’s CES 2023 TVs get thinner, brighter, healthier, and better for gaming Samsung just dropped a massive 98-inch Neo QLED mini-LED TV Samsung prices 2022 4K, 8K, Neo QLED TVs, pre-orders begin Samsung Display’s QD-OLED TV first look: Best. Picture. Ever.
Samsung Tech News Audio / Video When it comes to electronics — anything with a battery, really — there is but a single thing we need to remember. The less you have to worry about charging it, the better off everyone is going to be. You're going to be happier with the experience. The device in question is going to work better and longer. (Batteries, after all, are organic devices and will, eventually, die.) And that means the company that produces the product can do so at a slightly lower cost.
Enter Samsung's new Eco Remote, announced this week at CES. Samsung bills the Eco Remote as a way for customers to "take a literal hands-on approach to reducing their eco footprint." That's due in part to it using recycled materials, but also because it uses solar power and what's known as "RF Harvesting" to give what it calls "a battery-free experience." Audio / Video Portable projectors aren't exactly new. There's been a plethora of them over the years, to varying degrees of mediocrity. Samsung's hoping to change that at CES 2022 with the Freestyle, a portable projector that doesn't necessarily aim to be at the center of your living room and home theater experience, but rather in the middle of the good times that go on outside of it.
The $899 Freestyle looks like an upward-firing floor light. And if it's pointed toward the ceiling, or wall, that's a pretty apt description, as it's capable of a 1080p projection ranging from 30 inches to 100 inches, all powered by Samsung's Tizen-based smart TV experience. It's lightweight at 1.83 pounds, which means it almost certainly feels as portable as it looks. So you can hop from one kid's bedroom to another, or pull sleeping bags into the living room and fire up a movie on the ceiling. (Which is the sort of thing you do if you have this sort of product and kids.) Audio / Video The TV business is a tricky one. The business of a tech journalist covering TVs? It's trickier still. Case in point: In the midst of Samsung's other CES releases, Samsung snuck a brand-new TV technology into CES 2022 right under my nose. I'm supposed to know about this stuff ahead of time.
So what is this new TV? What is QD-OLED? What is QD-Display? And how in the world did Samsung pull a fast one on me? The answer is part tech and part inside baseball -- but all of it is important.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
