Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Guides What is 4K? Everything you need to know about 4K Ultra HD By Michael Bizzaco and Josh Levenson Close These days, it’s hard not to find a 4K TV when shopping for a new set. Now the dominant standard for high-definition viewing, UHD televisions are available in a range of sizes, with a variety of features and other add-ons to enhance the experience. While 8K TVs are gaining ground (with 16K models not too far off), 4K sets are what you’ll need to maximize the performance of today’s HD components. We’re talking about things like game systems, Blu-ray players, and streaming media platforms.
What is 4K Ultra HD? Is there a difference between 4K and UHD? Do I need a 4K Ultra HD TV? What brands make the best 4K Ultra HD TVs? Do all 4K Ultra HD TVs have HDR? Can 4K Ultra HD TVs play Full HD (1080p) content? Where can I watch 4K Ultra HD content? Should I buy a 4K TV or wait for 8K? Whether you’re buying your first 4K TV or simply want a refresher on the tech, we’ve got you covered with this detailed breakdown of TV’s most sought-after pixel count.
What is 4K Ultra HD? In a nutshell, 4K Ultra HD is the name assigned to a screen with a resolution that’s four times that of a Full HD (1080p) TV. That translates to 8 million pixels being crammed into the same space in which a Full HD TV fits just 2 million — achieved by making each pixel four times smaller. The result for the average viewer? A clearer image, more accurate color, and with most new TV sets, High Dynamic Range, or HDR (more on that in a bit).
Best TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 and more Best Prime Day TV deals: 4K TVs, 8K TVs, QLED TVs, and OLED TVs Vizio’s new Quantum 4K QLED TVs hit 75 inches for $699 Since each pixel is smaller, and thus each one is assigned a small slice of a bigger picture, it doesn’t make a whole lot of sense to beef up the resolution on smaller screens — the extra pixels have a bigger impact on a large screen because you can fit more of them in. As such, you’ll be hard-pressed to find too many 4K TVs with a screen smaller than 40 inches.
Is there a difference between 4K and UHD? At the consumer level, no. The two terms are practically interchangeable. But talk to professionals in the video production or cinema industry and they’ll chew your ear off about how what we lowly consumers call 4K isn’t actually 4K at all. Technically, they’re right.
In the professional world, 4K is a digital cinema standard that calls for a 4096 x 2160-pixel resolution. That first number is a horizontal measurement, the latter vertical, and they work out because they fit a 1.85:1 aspect ratio. Looking at those numbers, it makes sense to use the term 4K, because the horizontal measurement is in the four thousand neighborhood and is double the prior 2K (2048 x 1080) standard.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Still with us? Good, because now we’re going to come back to consumer television land, where the vast majority of us live. Here, we watch televisions with a 16:9 or 1.78:1 aspect ratio. That’s not quite as wide as what the pros use, so the pixel resolution we get ends up being 3840 x 2160 — double both the horizontal and vertical measurements of Full HD (1920 x 1080). Do that math and that’s four times the pixel resolution.
In 2013, the Consumer Electronics Association — now referred to as the Consumer Technology Association (CTA) — decided that, to end confusion and make marketing easier, Ultra HD should be the official name for the new resolution standard. Unfortunately, people have been calling it 4K for so long the name didn’t really stick, thus manufacturers turned to branding their latest models as 4K Ultra HD, or just 4K.
Do I need a 4K Ultra HD TV? One might as well ask: Do I need a Porterhouse steak? No, of course not! You can do just fine with a sirloin, can’t you? Likewise, your 1080p HD TV will still work years from now because 1080p digital broadcast standards aren’t going to disappear the way analog broadcasts did back in 2009, even with 4K fast becoming the industry standard. Still, you might be tempted to upgrade once you sit in front of a 4K Ultra HD set.
In short: If you’re happy with your TV, there is no need to upgrade, but if you’re shopping for a new television, you’d be foolish not to take the leap to 4K Ultra HD.
 It’s not like the price will be standing in your way, either. There is a myriad of budget 4K TVs on the market, with pricing starting at around $300 for a modest 50-inch model, $400 for a 55-inch, and $500-600 for a mammoth 65-inch. Not bad, right? What brands make the best 4K Ultra HD TVs? There’s no shortage of 4K TVs on the market, with just about every manufacturer churning them out. That’s not to say they’re all worth your hard-earned cash, though. If you have a considerable budget, you’re best off sticking to higher-end models from bigger TV brands like LG, Samsung, and Sony, while those with less dough to burn hoping to get the largest screen for the lowest possible price ought to turn their attention to TCL, Hisense, and Vizio, brands that are producing stunning 4K panels that are starting to rival the big players.
In terms of which is the best , that’s relative to your price point and what you’re hoping to get out of the television. If it’s a simple interface you’re after, with oodles of streaming features baked in, you can’t go wrong with a TCL Roku 4K TV.
 For the best possible visuals, you’re going to want to go with an LG, Samsung, or Sony — more specifically a QLED or an OLED.
 And for a lot of screen real estate and performance on a budget, it’s Vizio.
Rich Shibley/Digital Trends Do all 4K Ultra HD TVs have HDR? High Dynamic Range — referred to as HDR — in TVs includes multiple formats that provide brighter whites and darker blacks, making for increased color volume and shading and better contrast than standard displays, ultimately resulting in more vivid detail. Many people (including us) say that when it’s done right, HDR is a more noticeable upgrade than 4K resolution, and if you’re looking for a new reason to buy a TV, this is a great one.
Dan Baker/Digital Trends Nowadays, it’s rare to find a 4K TV that doesn’t have HDR on board — though it’s still worth checking to make sure the one you’re looking at does, especially if you’re aiming at the lower end of the market. With that in mind, there are a few different varieties of HDR, including Dolby Vision, Hybrid Log-Gamma (HLG), which is a broadcast-focused take that’s starting to reach the mainstream, HDR10, and its more dynamic counterpart, HDR10+. HDR10 is the most common variety, while Dolby Vision and HDR10+ will usually be found on more premium models, with some brands choosing one over the other. HLG may be important someday, but in the US, it’s less of a factor at present.
Can 4K Ultra HD TVs play Full HD (1080p) content? Yes, 4K Ultra HD TVs can play Full HD content, but it won’t be displayed in the standard 1920 x 1080 resolution we’ve all come to know and love. Instead, to fill the extra pixels that make up a 4K Ultra HD screen, the content first has to be upscaled. The same applies to content shot or rendered in SD resolution.
To be clear, that doesn’t mean you have to wait for HD shows to morph into a higher resolution before you can start watching. The upscaling takes place in real-time as the material is playing. Take note, however, that while most of the big-name manufacturers’ 4K Ultra HD TVs do a solid job with upscaling, some budget brands do not, so we’d suggest sticking to the aforementioned brands for the best results.
That said, if you’ve already pulled the trigger on a 4K TV with less-than-perfect upscaling, you have some options: You can either outsource it to a mid-to-high-end A/V receiver with built-in 4K upscaling or if you’re playing a DVD, you can invest in a 4K Ultra HD Blu-ray player (or even an Ultra HD Blu-ray compatible Playstation 5 or Xbox Series X ) as most of them have an upscaling processor of their own under the hood.
Where can I watch 4K Ultra HD content? There are a growing number of on-demand streaming options available, including Amazon Prime Video and Netflix , and even Hulu has rejoined the party (to a lesser extent). If you’re more of a physical media type of person (and enjoy the added performance quality they offer), the launch of Ultra HD Blu-ray in 2016 opened up a slew of additional choices — a sizeable chunk of which can be rented through Netflix DVDs ( yes , that’s still a thing) or purchased on Amazon. There are also multiple download services that offer 4K resolution content, including iTunes, Google Play, and others.
And finally, there will likely be a host of new streaming services coming soon which will host 4K content. Disney added a significant chunk of its own to Disney+ , which has hundreds of hours of movies and shows ready to fill all those pixels.
Image used with permission by copyright holder When it comes to live TV, you aren’t going to find 4K packages from many cable or satellite companies just yet, but Dish Network, DirecTV, and Comcast have all started dabbling into the space, but it’s still very limited and mostly relegated to prerecorded or streamed content. For the time being, 4K is mostly rolled out for special events like the Olympics or other sporting events.
As for over-the-air broadcast television, Ultra HD isn’t yet available, though ATSC 3.0 , the next-generation broadcast standard, is coming, and it will permanently pave the way for 4K broadcasts.
Should I buy a 4K TV or wait for 8K? While 4K Ultra HD may seem like the next big thing, there’s already a new kid on the block. It’s called 8K , and with a resolution of 7680 x 4320 (or 4320p), it’s four times that of 4K Ultra HD and 16-times that of Full HD. That may seem all too appealing, but there are a couple of reasons you’re going to want to steer clear of them for the time being — with the first being 8K TVs are incredibly expensive.
Even if your pockets are deep, we still advise against bagging one right now. 4K Ultra HD has just about become the new industry standard, and there’s a lot of work to be done before 8K replaces it — even if it seems like development has come in leaps and bounds. TV technology is likely to mature greatly between now and then, which could ultimately render current models obsolete.
To make matters worse, the industry is already beginning to talk about 16K, which you shouldn’t even be considering if you’re not a member of the 1%. Even then, there’s no real 16K content right now, save for some pseudoscience that allows manufacturers like Sony to show off its fidelity as best it can. The same rings true for 8K, so you’d only be bleeding your wallet for the privilege of technological clout. Your only real reason to spring for something in this category at present is if you have massive display needs, as the latest TV tech supports sets much larger than current mainstream 4K models are capable of.
Your best bet is to pour your budget into the best QLED or OLED TV (depending on your preference) you can find. It will serve you better in the long run and you won’t run the risk of owning an 8K TV that could become antiquated before 8K even hits the mainstream. Right now, 4K Ultra HD is the only resolution worthy of your investment, and that won’t be changing any time soon.
Editors' Recommendations Sharp’s promised Roku OLED TV is now available and deeply discounted Best 65-inch TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 The best TVs of 2023: from Samsung, LG, TCL, and more YouTube TV in 4K: Everything you need to know What is Google TV? Here’s everything you need to know TV Audio / Video Roku TV is a smart TV platform and user interface that can be found on Roku’s first-party streaming devices and compatible QLED and LED TVs. Our focus today is on the latter, and fortunately some pretty awesome brands have signed their souls away to the Big R. As it stands, TCL is the kingpin of Roku-powered TVs, but depending on where you’re shopping, you’ll also be able to find some other noteworthy companies to grab a Roku TV from. These are mostly budget-friendly names like Hisense, Westinghouse and Roku themselves, but “budget-friendly” doesn’t translate to “low quality.” In fact, some of these Roku TVs are pretty dang great when it comes to things like HDR performance.
If you're looking for a sale, take a look at some of the best TV deals.
Audio / Video TCL has unveiled yet another 98-inch 4K TV: the S Class S5 (98S550G), which can be preordered starting August 24 for $5,000. As part of TCL's partnership with the NFL, the company is also offering football fans $200 off NFL Sunday Ticket from YouTube and YouTube TV if you buy the TV before September 19, 2023.
The Google TV-powered 98-inch S5 joins TCL's $5,000 98-inch Class XL 4K QLED TV (98R754) and the company's $12,000 98-inch Q Class mini-LED 4K TV (98QM850G) as the three biggest TCL TVs.
Audio / Video There was a time when 4K resolution alone would guarantee you’d be spending upwards of $1,500 on a TV, regardless of the size. But we’re more than a decade away from the singular fanfare of a high pixel count, which means 4K TVs cost much less moolah. In fact, did you know that you can actually find several UHD sets that sell for less than $500 and they won’t fall apart the moment you look at them? Hyperbole aside, our proclamation is true, and we’ve rounded up the very best 4K TVs for under $500 that you can buy online and in stores right now.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
