Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? HDMI 2.1: what it is and why your next TV should have it By Michael Bizzaco , Caleb Denison and Simon Cohen Close HDMI technology arrived well over two decades ago and completely changed the way we set up and use our TVs , soundbars , home theater systems , and other AV components. Consolidating high-definition video and audio into one single wire, HDMI cables and ports helped to drastically cut down on wire clutter, while enhancing picture and sound quality across the board. But like most cutting-edge tech, HDMI has seen a number of improvements over the years. These evolutions in protocol and capabilities are referred to as “HDMI standards,” the oldest of which is HDMI 1.0.
Is my new TV about to become obsolete? Is it okay to buy a TV that doesn’t have HDMI 2.1? Does HDMI 2.1 require new HDMI cables to work properly? Is HDMI 2.1 backward compatible? Can my HDMI 2.0b devices be firmware upgraded to HDMI 2.1? Why do we need a new HDMI version? What can HDMI 2.1 do that HDMI 2.0b can’t? What’s new? Do monitors have HDMI 2.1 too? Are there downsides to switching to HDMI 2.1? At this time, the most common standard in use is HDMI 2.0b, but we’ve been seeing a lot of HDMI 2.1, as well. Believe it or not, HDMI 2.1 has already evolved to HDMI 2.1b! These advancements can be hard to keep up with, but each leap in standards brings a whole new set of features to the table. That being said, we’d like to give you a crash course in all things HDMI 2.1, so you’ll be better equipped to know what HDMI cables, TVs, and other home theater tech to be on the lookout for Is my new TV about to become obsolete? Absolutely not. If your TV supports 4K UHD resolution and high-dynamic-range (HDR) — or even just 4K — it is still a long way from obsolescence.
What is Bluetooth multipoint and why your next earbuds or headphones should have it HDMI 2.1a is on its way. Here’s what you need to know Toshiba C350 Fire TV does 4K, HDMI 2.1, and Dolby Vision, starting at $350 It’s true that HDMI 2.1 opens up a wealth of new possibilities, which we’ll get into shortly, but these features are rolling out slowly based on the state of consumer technology. The changes are exciting, but HDMI 2.1’s potential won’t be fully unlocked until technologies like 8K TV resolution and 4K at 120Hz go mainstream. But it’s getting there, especially when we look at the best TV for gaming currently on the market.
Bottom line: If you bought your TV within the past couple of years, you can breathe easily.
Is it okay to buy a TV that doesn’t have HDMI 2.1? LG In the past, our advice was, “Go ahead and buy that TV with confidence.” HDMI 2.1 was still too far away. But if you’re intent on buying a flagship TV, we urge you to consider going with one that has HDMI 2.1 inputs. You’ll find a handful of great options from the likes of Samsung (the S95C ), LG (the G3 OLED ), TCL (the QM8 Series ), and even Hisense (the U8K ), all at fairly competitive prices.
But the other reason we urge you to go with an HDMI 2.1 set is that there have already been two modifications to the 2.1 standard. With HDMI 2.1a in the can, we’re already onto HDMI 2.1b, an evolution of the 48Gbps calling card that brings higher resolution support (8K/60Hz and 4K/120Hz), along with resolutions up to 10K for TVs that are much further down the line. The latest standard also brings a feature called Quick Media Switching (QMS, more on this below) to the table.
So, if you’re currently in the market, better to go with an HDMI 2.1-capable model that won’t break the bank and future-proof your home theater setup. On the other hand, if you’re more interested in saving money and looking for deals, don’t be afraid to pick HDMI 2.0 or something similar, as long as you understand what you’re giving up.
Does HDMI 2.1 require new HDMI cables to work properly? Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends Yes, with a capital “Y.” As you’ll learn in the spec rundown below, the new standard nearly triples the amount of data that can fit down an HDMI cable at once. To take full advantage of HDMI 2.1, you’ll need to use a new Ultra High-Speed Certified HDMI cable.
In some rare instances, it may be possible to use an existing Certified High-Speed HDMI cable with a newer HDMI 2.1 device, but since the amount of information being crammed down this digital pipeline is increasing at a rapid rate, we advise you to buy new Ultra High-Speed HDMI cables along with any HDMI 2.1-capable device that doesn’t already include them. If that sounds expensive, don’t worry — they don’t cost much more than standard High-Speed HDMI cables.
Wondering which HDMI cables you should buy? Check out our list of recommended HDMI cables for all kinds of devices and installations. Focus on the speed certifications of your cable, which helps ensure you’re getting a cable that is capable of supporting important HDMI 2.1 features.
It’s easiest to do this in person if possible: Look for the holographic.
Ultra Certified Cable label attached directly to your HDMI cable, which includes a little QR code for authenticating. This stands for certification by the HDMI Licensing Administrator, so you know the cable can handle the speeds necessary to enable many important HDMI 2.1 features, such as high resolutions paired with higher refresh rates.
Is HDMI 2.1 backward compatible? Yes. You will be able to connect any HDMI-enabled device supporting any older version of the HDMI standard, and it will work just fine on a new HDMI 2.1-enabled TV or display. Ultra High Speed HDMI cables are backward-compatible too. For instance, if in the future you want to connect your then-archaic Xbox One to your shiny new 8K TV with HDMI 2.1, that won’t be a problem at all. Nothing is changing about the size or connection type of the HDMI cable ports and jacks.
Can my HDMI 2.0b devices be firmware upgraded to HDMI 2.1? In theory, yes. In practice, probably not. While there are premium chips out there that can be firmware upgraded, they are extremely expensive and rarely used by manufacturers. Chances are that your existing HDMI 2.0b devices don’t have one of those rare chipsets built into them.
Why do we need a new HDMI version? Believe it or not, consumer-level home entertainment devices can already approach the 18Gbps bandwidth limits of HDMI 2.0b. Take a 4K Ultra HD Blu-ray disc, for instance: 4K image resolution on its own is a big bandwidth hog, but then add 10-bit color, 4:4:4 color sampling, 60 frames-per-second content, Dolby Atmos and DTS:X multichannel surround sound , HDR metadata, and all the other little bits that need to get from a 4K Ultra HD Blu-ray player or a streaming media player to a TV, and you get close to maxing out that 18Gbps limit.
How do you improve products if you’re already running out of space on the digital highway that carries all this video and audio information? You don’t. You have to pave a new, wider highway — and that’s exactly what the HDMI organization has done with HDMI 2.1.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Beyond the high resolution and increased frame rates Hollywood and game studios would like to use, more lines of communication needed to be opened up between devices sitting on either side of an HDMI cable. Right now, your Blu-ray player or game console can send tons of audio and video data to your TV, but it’s almost entirely a one-way conversation. By changing the way HDMI jacks and HDMI cables are structured, the HDMI organization was able to not only handle more traffic on the digital entertainment highway but also to route that traffic in a smarter way so that connected devices can maintain a proper, uninterrupted dialog.
In other words, if HDMI 2.0b is our existing, choked-up freeway system, then HDMI 2.1 is a mega-highway filled with self-driving cars, immune to bottlenecks, and instantly adapting to traffic fluctuations. So, what does that mean for you and your entertainment system? What can HDMI 2.1 do that HDMI 2.0b can’t? What’s new? AV receivers and soundbars can have HDMI 2.1 ports, too.
Denon Resolution is only the beginning. Let’s go through all the important feature upgrades.
Resolution As we’ve established, HDMI 2.1 allows for higher resolutions at higher frame rates than before. With HDMI 2.0b, we could enjoy a maximum of 4K resolution at a maximum frame rate of 60Hz. With HDMI 2.1, we can get 4K at 120Hz, 8K at 60Hz, and up to 10K resolution for industrial and commercial applications.
This is particularly great news for gamers , as higher frame rates mean smoother, better-looking games. It’s also great news for the film industry, and the HDMI organization says some Hollywood directors are eager to migrate to 120Hz native filming as they look to deliver high frame rate content to the big screen and beyond.
eARC The Audio Return Channel (ARC) is an HDMI 2.0b feature that lets audio move back and forth over an HDMI cable between a TV and an AV receiver or soundbar. Unfortunately, the limited bandwidth of HDMI 2.0b means that audio is often compressed and reduced down to stereo, resulting in “lossy,” lower-quality audio.
With HDMI 2.0’s Enhanced Audio Return Channel (eARC) , we can now get uncompressed, full-resolution audio over HDMI 2.1 connections.
Dolby Atmos is a perfect example. With ARC, Atmos only works when using Dolby Digital Plus, a compressed audio signal. eARC lets Dolby Atmos give its best performance using Dolby TrueHD, a “lossless,” high-resolution audio signal.
This will simplify system setups dramatically because it means users can connect everything to their TV and then run a single HDMI cable to their receiver or soundbar without losing sound quality. Fewer cables, less mess, better sound! Dynamic HDR The high-dynamic range is already the best improvement to TV picture quality since 1080p HD, but it can be even better. If you’re at all familiar with Dolby’s version of HDR, Dolby Vision , then you likely know the reason some reviewers consider it superior to other formats — it is a “dynamic HDR” medium. In other words, Dolby Vision makes changes to the settings of an image as the image itself changes. The result is a more accurate, vibrant, and … well … dynamic picture.
The only hangup with Dolby Vision is that it is a proprietary technology, and not every electronics manufacturer wants to pay licensing fees to use it. HDMI 2.1 brings dynamic HDR performance to other flavors, including the dynamic version of HDR10, known as HDR10+ , and others, which should bring better HDR experiences to more TVs and more formats.
But wait: Isn’t HDR10+ already possible using HDMI 2.0b? Technically, yes, but it’s not an officially supported technology when done over HDMI 2.0b. HDMI 2.1 makes it official, which in turn should make it highly reliable.
Variable refresh rate As we mentioned in the section on resolution, HDMI 2.1 can support higher frame rates for smoother video. But just as importantly from a gaming perspective, it allows for variable frame rates. Modern PC and console games do not use a single frame rate throughout the game. It varies — sometimes by quite a lot — depending on the complexity of the scene.
When frame rates drop or speed up, there is a mismatch between what the game is providing and what the TV is set to display. To compensate, the TV has to do some guesswork, and the result isn’t pretty. Lag, judder, and frame tearing are all symptoms of trying to play VRR games on an HDMI 2.0b non-VRR-capable display. HDMI 2.1 gives TVs the ability to be perfect big-screen gaming companions.
 That’s especially important if you are using new consoles like the Xbox Series X or PS5, which are built with VRR in mind.
Quick frame transport This feature reduces the time it takes for a frame of video to pass from the source device (like a PC or console) to a display (like a TV or virtual reality — VR — headset). Again, this is great for gamers, who will notice much less lag, especially those who like fast-action, first-person shooters. VR users will benefit from an equally reduced time between movements and the world presented through their goggles.
Quick media switching Utilizing the same HDMI VRR mechanism that hardcore gamers have been taking advantage of, Quick Media Switching (QMS) is a cool HDMI 2.1b feature that eliminates something called “blackouts.” This is that one- to three-second dropout in signal that occurs when you’re switching from one HDMI source to another. As long as Source B has the same resolution as Source A, HDMI 2.1b should allow you to change inputs without any blackout time whatsoever.
Auto low-latency mode (ALLM) Yet another improvement for gamers, ALLM lets a TV or other display know when the signal is coming from a game console or PC. When that happens, the display can automatically turn off any picture processing that could introduce latency or lag. You’ll never have to select Game Mode on your TV again.
No more lip-sync issues Currently, it can be a hassle to sync the video from your TV with the audio from your receiver or soundbar. This is because the TV may be using a heavy amount of processing, while the audio system’s processing takes far less time than the video processing.
The result is a delayed output of a video signal relative to an audio signal, and the result of that mismatch is sound that (oh-so-frustratingly) doesn’t match the timing of your picture. HDMI 2.1 will make it possible for TVs to talk in real time to AV receivers, soundbars, Blu-ray players, game consoles, and other source devices to ensure your video and audio are in perfect sync all the time.
Do monitors have HDMI 2.1 too? Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Yes, they do — there are some excellent monitors with HDMI 2.1, especially for gaming.
 And brands like Asus have whole pages devoted to it.
 Keep in mind that you’ll need a GPU that also supports HDMI 2.1 features to really benefit. You don’t absolutely need HDMI 2.1 to reach 120Hz or even 144Hz refresh rates, but it is important for supporting both high refresh rates and high resolution at the same time.
Are there downsides to switching to HDMI 2.1? If you were waiting for the catch in all of this coolness, there’s a potentially significant one. Unfortunately, that “HDMI 2.1” sticker on your TV’s box doesn’t guarantee that the display in question actually supports the HDMI 2.1 features that matter to you.
For instance, several of Sony’s 2021 HDMI 2.1 TVs shipped without VRR, though a batch of firmware updates released last fall began adding the capability to select TVs. Toshiba’s C350 Series Fire TV has a single HDMI 2.1 port, which supports eARC and will get ALLM with an update, but the TV will never do VRR or 4k at 120Hz. And while QFT (Quick Frame Transport for low latency) is available on cables , support for it remains low on devices like TVs.
If you feel yourself hurtling back to square one, don’t panic. When shopping for a new HDMI 2.1-capable TV, just make sure to do your due diligence and see which of the HDMI 2.1 features the TV/manufacturer supports. Bottom line: Not all HDMI 2.1 TVs are created equal, so buyer beware! That concludes our rundown of HDMI 2.1. As you can see, the new standard opens up a wealth of new possibilities. And with 2.1a already on the way, there’s never been a better time to opt for a 2.1-capable TV or receiver.
Visit this page at HDMI.org to learn more about HDMI 2.1 specs.
Special thanks to Jeff Park at HDMI LA, Brad Bramy at HDMI.org, and Chris Heinonen of Wirecutter and Reference Home Theater for providing deep technical background for this article.
Editors' Recommendations HDMI ARC and eARC: the one-cable solution for TV audio, fully explained Addition of Cable Power to HDMI simplifies longer cable runs What is HDMI 2.0b? Here’s everything you need to know Web Best Buy is pulling out the big guns this Black Friday to compete with Amazon Black Friday deals, and we're seeing a lot of great deals across the board, whether you want a laptop, a vacuum cleaner, or a fitness tracker. Of course, there are a lot of deals to go through, so we've done our best to collect some of our favorite ones below so that you don't have to. We'll also be updating this page as more and better deals come along, so be sure to check back regularly. Also, be sure to check out the Walmart Black Friday sale, as it's also going all out in the hopes of competing with Amazon.
Top 3 Best Buy Black Friday Deals Nest Hub -- $60, was $100 Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Audio / Video If you've been thinking about buying new headphones or earbuds, the good news is that you already have access to massive discounts through early Black Friday deals from retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart. There's a lot of options to choose from, ranging from budget models to high-end devices, so to help with your decision, we've rounded up the best Black Black Friday headphone and earbud deals that you can shop right now. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase though, as we're not sure how much time is remaining for these offers. If you see a bargain that you like, we recommended that you push through with the transaction as soon as you can.
Best Black Friday headphone deals For shoppers who have been thinking about taking advantage of headphone deals, don't let the discounts of Black Friday end without buying a new pair. You may want to check out our roundup of the best headphones for recommendations on what to purchase, as well as our headphone buying guide to figure out the features that will be important to you. There are so many headphones on sale across the different retailers, but we've gathered our favorite offers below to try to help you narrow down your choices. Some of our favorite are JBL and Beats Black Friday deals. It won't be easy, but this is a good place to start as any.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
