Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Guides Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? LED vs. LCD TVs explained: What’s the difference? By Michael Bizzaco and Quentyn Kennemer Close Shopping for a new TV (especially if you haven’t done so in a few years) can be a crash course in three to four-letter acronyms. From sales floor price tags to online marketing, Samsung, LG, Sony, TCL, Hisense, and every TV brand under the sun is all about the tech verbiage — QLED, OLED, mini-LED, QD-OLED, UHD, HD (these are just a handful of the go-to selections). But each one of these acronyms stands for something important, which in most cases is the kind of picture technology the TV is utilizing to give you things like mesmerizing brightness, rich colors, and awesome black levels.
LED and LCD: Together forever Backlighting What is local dimming? OLED vs. QLED vs. QD-OLED But as products continue to evolve, there’s one set of TV acronyms that may not get the kind of magnifying glass attention it once commanded, even though it’s certainly still relevant when it comes to how your TV is illuminated, and that’s LED and LCD. Even though most TVs are actually LEDs these days, LCDs are definitely still around, and it pays to know the difference between both of these lighting technologies. Thus, we’ve put together this handy explainer to help you decide which is better, as well as the similarities and differences between both display types.
LED and LCD: Together forever LG Despite having a different acronym, LED TV is just a specific type of LCD TV, which uses a liquid crystal display (LCD) panel to control where light is displayed on your screen. These panels are typically composed of two sheets of polarizing material with a liquid crystal solution between them. When an electric current passes through the liquid, it causes the crystals to align, so that light can (or can’t) pass through. Think of it as a shutter, either allowing light to pass through or blocking it out.
The best OLED TVs for 2023: from LG, Sony, and Samsung The best TVs of 2023: from Samsung, LG, TCL, and more QLED vs. OLED TVs: which is better and what’s the difference? Since both LED and LCD TVs are based around LCD technology, the question remains: What is the difference? Actually, it’s about what the difference was.
 Older LCD TVs used cold cathode fluorescent lamps (CCFLs) to provide lighting, whereas LED LCD TVs use an array of smaller, more efficient light-emitting diodes (LEDs) to illuminate the screen.
Since the technology is better, all LCD TVs now use LED lights and are colloquially considered LED TVs. For those interested, we’ll go deeper into backlighting below, or you can move onto the Local Dimming section.
Backlighting Douglas Murray / Digital Trends Three basic illumination forms have been used in LCD TVs: CCFL backlighting, full-array LED backlighting, and LED edge lighting. Each of these illumination technologies is different in important ways. Let’s dig into each: CCFL backlighting CCFL backlighting is an older, now-abandoned form of display technology in which a series of cold cathode lamps sit across the inside of the TV behind the LCD. The lights illuminate the crystals fairly evenly, which means all regions of the picture will have similar brightness levels. This affects some aspects of picture quality, which we discuss in more detail below. Since CCFLs are larger than LED arrays, CCFL-based LCD TVs are thicker than LED-backlit LCD TVs.
Full-array backlighting Full-array backlighting swaps the outdated CCFLs for an array of LEDs spanning the back of the screen, with zones of LEDs that can be lit or dimmed in a process called local dimming. Fully backlit LED TVs are one of the most common types of LED lighting used in TVs today, with brands like Samsung, Sony, and TCL implementing this tech into many of their midtier and premium sets, including QLEDs and QD-OLEDS (more on these TV types later). This is because full backlighting arrays are able to deliver powerful brightness levels that can be very precisely controlled with features like local dimming, resulting in a final picture that is both vibrant and well-balanced in terms of colors and contrast.
Nowadays, you’ll also see TV companies using something called mini-LED lighting.
These are much smaller light-emitting diodes that can deliver better overall brightness and better colors and contrast through local dimming, simply because more diodes can be packed into the entire lighting array.
Edge lighting Another form of LCD screen illumination is LED edge lighting.
 As the name implies, edge-lit TVs have LEDs along the edges of the screen. There are a few different configurations, including LEDs along just the bottom, LEDs on the top and bottom, LEDs along the left and right sides, and LEDs along all four parts of the frame. These different configurations result in picture quality differences, but the overall brightness capabilities still exceed what CCFL LCD TVs could achieve. While there are some drawbacks to edge lighting compared to full-array displays (especially in terms of local dimming), TV manufacturers have gotten really good at making edge-lit TVs that use features like picture upscaling to make an edge-lit display look and perform like a full-array screen. Plus, edge-lit TVs are generally cheaper than fully backlit TVs! What is local dimming? Local dimming is a feature of LED LCD TVs wherein the LED light source behind the LCD is dimmed and illuminated to match what the TV’s signal source demands. LCDs can’t completely prevent light from passing through, even during dark scenes, so dimming the light source itself aids in creating deeper blacks and more impressive contrast in the picture. This is accomplished by selectively dimming the LEDs when that particular part of the picture — or region — is intended to be dark.
Digital Trends Local dimming helps LED-LCD TVs more closely match the quality of modern OLED displays , which feature better contrast levels by their nature — something CCFL LCD TVs couldn’t do. The quality of local dimming varies depending on which type of backlighting your LCD uses, how many individual zones of dimming are employed, and the quality of the processing.
TVs with full-array backlighting have the most accurate local dimming and therefore tend to offer the best contrast. Since an array of LEDs spans the entire back of the LCD screen, regions can generally be dimmed with more finesse than on edge-lit TVs, and brightness tends to be uniform across the entire screen.
Hisense’s impressive U7H TVs are great examples of relatively affordable models that use full-array backlighting with local dimming.
Because edge lighting employs LEDs positioned on the edge or edges of the display to project light across the entire LCD screen, (as opposed to coming from directly behind it), it can result in very subtle blocks or bands of lighter pixels within or around areas that should be dark. The local dimming of edge-lit TVs can sometimes result in some murkiness in dark areas compared with full-array LED TVs. It should also be noted that not all edge-lit TVs offer local dimming, which is why it is not uncommon to see glowing strips of light at the edges of a TV and less brightness toward the center of the screen.
OLED vs. QLED vs. QD-OLED When shopping around for a TV these days, you’ll still see LED and LCD acronyms tossed around a bit, but two of the more common keywords you’ll find at Best Buy and on Amazon is OLED and QLED.
Oh, and now there’s also QD-OLED to contend with! An OLED display uses a panel of pixel-sized organic compounds that respond to electricity. Since each tiny pixel (millions of which are present in modern displays) can be turned on or off individually, OLED displays are called “self-emissive” displays, which means they require no backlighting at all. These kinds of TVs, made popular by LG , offer incredibly deep contrast levels and better per-pixel accuracy than any other picture tech on the market. And because they don’t require a separate light source, OLED displays are also amazingly thin — often just a few millimeters.
Then there are the QLED TVs — think of them as a kind of supercharged LED TV –that were made popular by companies like Samsung , TCL , and Hisense.
 Unlike OLED displays, QLED is not an “emissive” display technology (actual LED lights still illuminate QLED pixels from behind). However, QLEDs feature an updated illumination technology over regular LED-LCDs in the form of quantum dots (the “Q” in QLED), which help to give a big boost to an LED TV’s color saturation and brightness capabilities. When combined with features like local dimming, many QLED TVs can even rival the rich colors and inky black levels once only delivered by OLED TVs.
With all these warring picture types, it’s a shame that TV manufacturers won’t come together to create a premium TV that combines the best parts of a QLED with the best parts of an OLED. Actually, that’s a thing now, and this new acronym and picture tech is called QD-OLED.
 A four-layered approach to flagship picture quality, QD-OLEDs combine an LED backlight with quantum dots (just like a QLED), on top of an LCD matrix with a color filter to produce a vibrant picture with a ton of color and contrast detail (just like an OLED).
Right now, Samsung and Sony are the two QD-OLED kingpins, but we expect to see this revolutionary picture tech implemented on more and more TVs as time goes on.
Editors' Recommendations HDMI ARC or digital optical: what’s the difference, and which is best for you? Best QLED TVs for 2023: from TCL, Samsung, Hisense, and more Mini-LED vs. QLED TV: how one technology is improving the other Why TCL’s 5,000-nit X955 is a brightness bomb of QD-mini-LED Best Buy TV deals: Save on QLED TVs, OLED TVs, and 8K TVs Audio / Video I get asked a lot of questions like “What’s the best TV for sports?” and “What’s important to look for when buying a TV if I watch mostly sports?” and “Hey, Caleb, I’m at the TV store right now and I’m about to buy this TV, am I making a mistake?” So, let’s talk about what makes one TV better than another for watching sports, what to look for, what to ignore when shopping for a new TV, and why anyone who says that “buying a TV just for sports is dumb” probably means well, but is also totally wrong.
Audio / Video TCL has finally revealed its full lineup of TVs for 2023, and it includes a new flagship that is sure to give Samsung and Sony some sleepless nights. The 98-inch QM8 isn't TCL's first 98-inch TV, and it isn't the first 98-inch TV to sell for $10,000 or less, but it is the first mini-LED-powered 98-inch TV to sell for such a low price. Samsung's only 98-inch 4K, mini-LED TV -- the excellent QN90A -- costs 50% more at $15,000. Even the 85-inch model, at $2,800 is surprisingly affordable compared to similar mini-LED TVs.
TCL QM8 Mini-LED QLED TV First Look | WOW! TCL Outdid Itself (and Everyone Else) Audio / Video If you're in the market for a new TV and you've been patiently waiting to see how much Sony is asking for its 2023 models (and when you can buy them), today's the day you find out. Unless of course, you've been waiting to see what Sony wants for its latest flagship, the A95L 4K QD-OLED. In that case, we're the bearers of bad news: That model, in all three of its planned sizes (55-, 65-, and 77-inches,) is still MIA, and Sony hasn't indicated when that will change.
Sony Bravia A95L 4K QD-OLED TV Sony Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
