Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video News LG 2022 OLED TVs get brighter, bigger and … smaller? By Caleb Denison Close The wait is over. LG has taken the wraps off its 2022 OLED TV lineup, and there’s plenty to be excited about.
LG Gallery Series G2 OLED TVs LG C2 Series OLED TVs Gaming on LG OLED TVs Under the hood Good reason for excitement I traveled to LG’s U.S. Headquarters in New Jersey ahead of CES 2022 to get a close-up look at all of LG’s new 2022 TVs. Given the predictable excitement about LG OLED TVs in general, I’ll stay focused on those models in this report, but you can learn about LG’s QNED mini-LED TV lineup and some improvements to its Dolby Atmos soundbars here.
The 2022 LG G2 series comes in sizes of 55, 65, 77, 83, and 97 inches.
LG LG Gallery Series G2 OLED TVs LG’s premium Gallery Series OLED TVs — known as the G2 series — are going to be even brighter than before and now come in some jaw-dropping sizes, including a new 83-inch model and what is being billed as the world’s first 97-inch OLED TV. At just three diagonal inches shy of the 100-inch entry point common to projection screens, this new 97-inch OLED could be the most marvelous thing to happen to home theaters in decades. Of course, if a 97-inch OLED TV is too large and too costly (pricing has not yet been released), the G2 series will still be available in 55-, 65-, and 77-inch options as well.
The G2 series will continue to ship with LG’s custom Gallery Series wall mount in the box. But those who prefer to stand-mount their TVs will be pleased to know LG has designed an all-new stand system that is much more premium and attractive than the cheap add-on legs the company has had on offer as a separate purchase for the past two years.
In addition to getting larger, the G2 series now will be even brighter than it was last year, when LG first introduced its OLED EVO technology. With the addition of new thermal management for the television, LG’s most premium 4K OLED TVs will now be able to sustain higher brightness for longer periods of time. LG isn’t disclosing just how much brighter the new TVs will be, so I will look forward to testing this claim later in the year. I should point out that LG has not confirmed whether the new deuterium-based panels LG Display announced earlier this year are in use within the G2 series.
Samsung accidentally reveals price of its 77-inch QD-OLED TV Samsung shows off the first two 77-inch QD-OLED 4K TVs at CES 2023 LG says its G3 OLED evo TV will be 70% brighter, with no visible wall gap The new G2 series also get some aesthetic improvements, with even slimmer bezels, a slimmer profile, and significantly reduced weight, thanks to the use of some next-generation materials. LG has also shrunk the size and weight of its packaging across all of its premium TVs as part of a larger environmentally conscious initiative aimed at reducing waste and carbon emissions.
LG C2 Series OLED TVs LG’s C-Series has long been the company’s top-selling series of OLED TVs. That series now sees significant improvements in brightness and a wider array of size options. For the first time, LG will offer a 42-inch C-Series OLED, which could end up being a favorite among both TV enthusiasts and gamers (more on gaming below). LG will also continue to sell the C2 Series in 48-, 55-, 65-, 77-, and 83-inch options.
The brighter LG OLED EVO technolog,y which LG first introduced in its G1 series TVs in 2021, has now made its way to the C2 Series, adding increased value to LG’s most popular OLED TV option.
Gaming on LG OLED TVs Both the G2 and C2 series OLED TVs appear poised to make for some of the best gaming TV options on the market in 2022. Both series will offer full-bandwidth HDMI 2.1 ports, with up to 48 Gbps bandwidth, along with all of the other benefits associated with HDMI 2.1, including support for up to 8K at 60Hz, 4K at 120Hz, variable refresh rate (VRR), Nvidia G-Sync, Freesync Premium, auto low-latency mode (ALLM), eARC audio functionality, and pretty much anything else HDMI 2.1 could support down the road. This makes LG’s G2 and C2 OLEDs among the most future-proof TVs available in 2022, keeping in mind that it is virtually impossible to future-proof a TV these days.
Under the hood Driving most of LG’s premium TVs in 2022 will be the company’s Alpha 9 Gen 5 processor, which includes deep learning algorithms to better upscale and otherwise improve picture quality. LG told me in a briefing that the A9 Gen 5 processor is its most powerful yet, and I expect it to give Sony’s Bravia XR processing a run for its money. Also under the hood will be a redesigned WebOS smart TV system that aims to put LG TVs at the center of the smart home as a smart home hub, as well as a polished-up user interface for more pleasant daily TV operation. More information on LG’s WebOS and UX improvement can be read here.
Good reason for excitement Having seen LG’s latest OLED TVs in person, I can say there is good reason to be excited for the company’s latest OLED TVs. Often, these TV announcements either spell out a year of iteration or innovation, and I firmly believe this is a year for the latter of the two. Once again, I expect LG’s OLED TVs to be some of the most outstanding TVs on the market, not just in terms of picture quality, but in terms of gaming and general user experience as well.
Editors' Recommendations Samsung S95C OLED hands-on review: it’s time to get excited What is a Micro Lens Array, and how does it make OLED TVs brighter? Samsung’s CES 2023 TVs get thinner, brighter, healthier, and better for gaming Get the most out of your Apple TV 4K (2022) with these tips and tricks I desperately crave LG’s flexible OLED TV. Here’s why I won’t buy it News LG Tech News TV Audio / Video No doubt, the LG 97-inch G2 OLED is crazy-town expensive for a TV, but considering what it does? It's actually a bargain.
Look, I'm not here trying to convince anyone reading this article that anyone needs a $25,000 TV -- that's LG's job. This is really about me helping to make sense of a world that's really hard to understand for anyone who isn't really wealthy. This is me justifying a somewhat extravagant luxury for a demographic of onlookers who might love to own a 97-inch OLED TV, but who have zero shot of doing so until such a thing doesn't cost as much as a compact car.
Audio / Video LG today announced pricing and availability for its 2022 line of OLED televisions. That includes four series of 4K sets (we've got info for three of them, anyway), as well two 8K models.
The launches are staggered a bit, and there are plenty of indecipherable model names (they really reelect the size and series) tucked into each group. Here's how everything breaks down: Computing Asus announced two new OLED gaming monitors at CES 2022, including the world's first 42-inch 4K OLED display. The monitors may target gaming with their high resolutions and refresh rates, but Asus says they come with excellent color and contrast thanks to the OLED panel, as well.
There are two versions available, a 48-inch model (PG48UQ) and a 42-inch one (PG42UQ). We've seen 48-inch OLED displays before, including the Gigabyte Aorus FO48U and LG C1, but never a 42-inch display. At 42 inches, it's still a little big for some setups, but it's a lot closer than the 48-inch displays that have made the rounds over the past year.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
