Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video News LG QNED mini-LED TVs, Dolby Atmos soundbars see big improvements at CES 2022 By Caleb Denison Close LG’s 2022 OLED TVs may get the lion’s share of CES 2022 buzz , but having seen the company’s new 2022 QNED mini-LED TVs in action, I believe they may be one of several sleeper hits of the show.
LG QNED mini-LED TVs A step forward for webOS A better remote LG Dolby Atmos Soundbars LG’s already-competitive Dolby Atmos soundbars are also enjoying some improvements in 2022, with a new up-firing center speaker that could be mistaken for an Atmos channel, but which is actually aimed toward increased center channel clarity and presence. Let’s dive a bit deeper.
Alex Thornburg/Digital Trends LG QNED mini-LED TVs When LG’s QNED mini-LED TV line was introduced in 2021, I felt the new backlight tech was a significant step forward for LG’s LCD-based TV efforts. But I still saw room for improvement. Based on what I witnessed at LG’s U.S. headquarters ahead of CES 2022, LG has successfully refined both its Quantum Dot NanoCell technology and its mini-LED backlight processing to offer some outstanding picture quality improvement in areas like brightness, black level, and color.
By using thousands of tiny mini-LEDs instead of hundreds or even merely tens of standard-sized LEDs, TV makers can exert more control over an LCD TV’s backlight to offer brightness where it matters, but not at the expense of black levels, where halo effect and blooming can otherwise negatively impact contrast performance. All those mini-LEDs must be controlled at a granular level, with plenty of dimming zones to pull of high-contrast images correctly. And while LG’s 2021 TVs transformed the company’s patented IPS LCD panels, I still felt the backlight system could have been more refined and a bit speedier.
LG’s 2022 QNED mini-LED TVs appear to sport both those improvements, offering brilliant colors and impressive contrast with a minimum of backlight distractions. LG has also added more tiers to its QNED mini-LED lineup, offering varying levels of dimming zones for high-performance options across a wider spectrum of pricing. I attribute this to LG’s Alpha 9 Gen 5 processor, which appears to offer multiple processing improvements thanks to new deep learning algorithms.
JBL reveals its new flagship soundbar at CES 2023: 15 channels and 1170W of Dolby Atmos power Samsung releases its 2022 soundbars including an 11.1.4-channel flagship with wireless Dolby Atmos Polk brings Dolby Atmos to its compact MagniFi soundbar A step forward for webOS LG has also improved its webOS smart TV platform for 2022, making its TVs a true hub for the smart home of the future. In addition to supporting Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant , LG TVs armed with webOS 22 now offer individual profiles so that each member of a household can get customized app screen layouts, content recommendations, and real-time sports team alerts. The new version of webOS also allows users to wirelessly bounce the signal coming from a cable or satellite box connected to one TV to any other 2022 LG TV in the home. This makes getting a TV set up outside or in some other remote location a much easier proposition.
WebOS also supports LG’s new “Always Ready” feature, which allows the screen to display artwork while at rest or, alternatively, turns the screen into a clock or music control hub.
Alex Thornburg/Digital Trends A better remote LG’s Magic Motion Remote has also seen some improvements, thanks to a reduction in redundant buttons and a smaller overall profile. The reduced button clutter really goes a long way, from my seat.
LG Dolby Atmos Soundbars LG has also implemented some notable improvements to is Dolby Atmos soundbars. In addition to a new dipole-style wireless surround speaker available in the company’s flagship soundbar, LG is adding an up-firing speaker to the center channel to increase clarity, presence, and intelligibility for moments when voices can frequently get buried by otherwise explosive soundtracks for action sequences. In a demonstration using a scene from Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice , I noted significant improvement to center channel clarity and fidelity. It also sounded as if the voices were coming from the screen rather than the soundbar itself, which is an impressive acoustic trick soundbars typically struggle to pull off.
All in all, LG is having a strong showing at CES 2022, and I look forward to testing its products in-house over the course of this new year.
Editors' Recommendations Sennheiser’s Ambeo Soundbar Mini is a pricey, bedroom-sized Dolby Atmos speaker LG’s 2023 soundbars go wireless, get on-screen controls, and game-friendly inputs LG’s 2022 soundbars start at $400, pump out hi-res audio and 3D sound Hisense adds mini-LED and Google TV to its 2022 QLED TVs Sony claims mini-LED superiority with 2022 8K and 4K TVs News LG Tech News Audio / Video The wait is over. LG has taken the wraps off its 2022 OLED TV lineup, and there's plenty to be excited about.
I traveled to LG's U.S. Headquarters in New Jersey ahead of CES 2022 to get a close-up look at all of LG's new 2022 TVs. Given the predictable excitement about LG OLED TVs in general, I'll stay focused on those models in this report, but you can learn about LG's QNED mini-LED TV lineup and some improvements to its Dolby Atmos soundbars here.
Audio / Video LG today announced a new lineup of audio products to be unveiled at CES 2022 in Las Vegas, with the aptly named LG Soundbar leading the way. The less-simple model number is S95Q4, and it's billed as a "premium" soundbar with 810watts of power and 9.1.5 channels of surround sound, plus Dolby Atmos and DTS:X support for good measure. It also will support IMAX Enhanced.
Look closely at the rear speakers and you'll note the inclusion of upward-firing drivers. The rears are designed to cover 135 degrees of range across the six channels, which the company says should be noticeable in smaller rooms.
Audio / Video At CES 2021, we learned that LG planned to upgrade its LCD TV lineup with mini-LED backlight technology under the label "QNED TV," but now we finally have more details, including pricing and availability. LG's first QNED TVs will hit retail outlets in July, with an entry price of $2,000 for a 4K 65-inch model. There will also be 8K models available.
LG has always touted the picture quality benefits of its OLED TVs, and for good reason. On an OLED TV, each pixel generates its own brightness, resulting in the best black levels and contrast you can get in a TV. But with the advent of mini-LED backlighting, it's possible for LED and QLED TVs to get much closer to OLED's advantages in this area because they allow for much finer-grained control over brightness than regular LED backlights.
2021 LG QNED Mini-LED TVs Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
