Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Guides Products MicroLED vs. Mini-LED: Which display technology will power your next TV? By Simon Cohen Close The TV world has never been short on acronyms or buzzwords, but lately, it’s been feeling like we’re drowning in that alphabet soup.
OLED, QLED , HDR , HDTV, HDMI , ARC , eARC … it’s enough to make your head spin. And though we hate to add to that feeling of vertigo, hang on to your hat; there are two more terms you need to become familiar with because they’re about to change the TV landscape yet again: MicroLED and Mini-LED.
What is MicroLED? What is mini-LED? Size Price Brightness, black levels, and contrast Availability Though they look similar, the terms refer to very different kinds of displays, so let’s get right into what they are, how they’re different from each other, and how they could both play a role in your next TV purchase.
What is MicroLED? Samsung MicroLED is an emissive display technology that works similarly to OLED (Organic Light Emitting Diode) displays, in that each one of its pixels lights up on its own, without the need of a separate backlight. The biggest benefit of any emissive display is that it can achieve a perfect black level. When a pixel isn’t in use, it emits no light at all, which in turn gives you that sense of inky blackness.
TCL QM8 mini-LED TV at CES 2023: a 98-inch giant with a built-in subwoofer OLED vs. LED: Which kind of TV display is better? Samsung reveals 76-inch MicroLED, adds TikTok to all of its 2021 TVs But microLED displays have two big advantages over OLED: Because LEDs can get much brighter than OLEDs, that perfect black level is accompanied by impressive brightness, to create an overall contrast ratio that is currently unbeatable by any other technology. How much brighter is it? OLED panels can currently achieve a peak brightness of around 1,000 nits (the base unit display experts use to measure brightness), but microLEDs can potentially produce up to 5,000 nits.
A microLED panel can also be combined with other microLED panels — with no real limits on how many are connected — to create a display that is measured in feet, not inches, and with a resolution that goes all the way up to 16K and beyond. For now, OLED’s maximum size is 88-inches.
Several companies, including LG , Sony, and Samsung are working on microLED displays, but so far, only Samsung and Sony are selling them.
What is mini-LED? Image used with permission by copyright holder Mini-LED displays belong to the LED TV family, which includes regular LED TVs and QLED TVs.
 A Mini-LED display uses the same formula as these other TVs — an LED backlight provides the primary source of brightness which then passes through an LCD matrix and a set of color filters to give us the final on-screen image.
Where Mini-LED departs from this model is in the number and size of those LED backlights. A conventional LED TV might use a few dozen, or perhaps a few hundred LEDs to power its backlight. Mini-LED bumps this up to thousands by drastically shrinking the size of the individual LEDs. The reason for this approach is once again to find the holy grail of better contrast, better brightness, and better black levels.
With a larger collection of smaller LEDs, Mini-LED displays can exert greater control over local dimming — the ability to make portions of the screen completely black. If the LEDs are small enough, then, in theory, you could create an LED TV with the same gorgeous black levels as microLED or OLED. When combined with the improved brightness and color made possible by quantum dots, Mini-LED displays could be the technology that finally puts QLED TVs on par with (or even better than) OLED for overall picture quality.
Much like microLED, there are a few different players working with mini-LED tech, but for now, only TCL makes mini-LED TVs you can buy.
Now we’ll match the two technologies against each other in multiple categories to get a better idea about where each excels.
Size Image used with permission by copyright holder As we explained earlier, there’s no real limit to how big a microLED TV can get. Sony’s CrystalLED (its name for microLED) has been configured as large as 17 feet in size , with a monster 16K resolution to match. With the ability to scale up simply by adding more microLED panels, it’s an incredibly versatile system.
Mini-LED TVs are constrained by the same size limitations as traditional LED displays. Which is to say, they can be made bigger than the biggest OLED TVs, but still nowhere near the wall-sized possibilities that exist with microLED. The limitation on Mini-LED isn’t the LEDs themselves — there’s no limit to how many can be used at once — but with the LCD matrix panels that they illuminate. For now, the largest LED TV we’ve ever seen was Samsung’s 110-inch limited availability UHD TV from 2013.
Winner : MicroLED Price TCL For now, microLED displays are only for those with a lot of discretionary spending money. These TVs are so expensive that neither Samsung nor Sony offering official prices on their websites, which reminds us of the expression, “If you have to ask how much it is, you can’t afford it.” Still, a lack of public pricing hasn’t stopped us from putting together some estimates: Sony’s CrystalLED TVs start at around $180,000.
 And that’s for a 120-inch 1080P resolution setup. Want 4K? That will run you over $700,000.
Mini-LED TVs, thankfully, are on-par with other QLED TVs and in some cases are actually cheaper on a size-by-size comparison. TCL’s first kick at the Mini-LED — its 2019 8-Series — costs well under $2,000 for the 65-inch model, making it reasonably affordable.
TCL debuted a new version of its Mini-LED technology at CES 2020 , which it calls Vidrian Mini-LED. Vidrian places the Mini-LEDs on a single thin, glass sheet, resulting in a thinner overall display and one which looks to produce even better brightness and black levels. Vidrian-equipped models will likely cost more than their Mini-LED counterparts when they eventually appear, but even then, Mini-LED will remain far more affordable than microLED for many years to come.
Winner : Mini-LED Brightness, black levels, and contrast Image used with permission by copyright holder Even though Mini-LED looks poised to help QLED TVs close the gap with their OLED TV competitors when it comes to these attributes, there’s still no contest when Mini-LED goes up against microLED.
With the ability to go perfectly black on a pixel by pixel basis, emissive displays like microLED and OLED have an inherent advantage over any display that doesn’t have pixel-level control over brightness. And microLED’s stunning brightness also means that its contrast ratio is off-the-charts when compared to other displays.
Winner : MicroLED Availability This one is pretty straight-forward. Yes, theoretically you can buy a microLED display today, but let’s be honest: Unless you’re among the very wealthiest U.S. residents, you won’t be adding a microLED TV to your media room any time soon.
Mini-LED displays, on the other hand, are available right now albeit only from TCL. Still, both Sony and LG have shown off Mini-LED prototypes, which means TCL’s monopoly on the tech likely won’t last much longer. With a significant head start, however, expect TCL to be a leader in mini-LED TVs for the foreseeable future.
Winner : Mini-LED MicroLED and Mini-LED are two of the most exciting new display technologies to come along in years. They’ll both have an impact on the TVs we buy in the future, but clearly Mini-LED is going to be the one most of us become acquainted with first.
On the sidelines, but perhaps not for much longer, is QD-OLED , a marriage of QLED and OLED technologies. If and when we see the first TVs using this innovation, we expect they’ll cost a lot more than Mini-LED models, but still far less than microLED.
Editors' Recommendations Mini-LED vs. QLED TV: how one technology is improving the other Samsung debuts world’s smallest and most affordable microLED TV at CES 2023 What is OLED TV? The ultra-thin display technology fully explained MicroLED vs. OLED The Wall, Samsung’s epic microLED display, just got 300 inches bigger Samsung TCL TV Audio / Video While Samsung's QLED displays continue to do battle with LG's OLED panels for dominance in the living room, it may be time to welcome a new contender. At CES 2020, TCL has taken the wraps off its Vidrian Mini-LED display technology, which incorporates tens of thousands of mini LEDs into a clear glass substrate. It's an advancement over the company's first 8-Series 4K mini LED display, which it introduced in 2019.
"When combined with TCL’s big-screen 8K LCD panels," the company's press release reads, "this advanced backlight technology will enable consumers to enjoy immersive entertainment in all lighting conditions, from being enveloped in a movie in the darkest of home theaters to being thrilled by a daytime ball game in a sunlit living room." Audio / Video Samsung has made the opening move in what is sure to be a long series of exciting announcements around CES 2021, unveiling a massive, 110-inch MicroLED TV it says will go on sale in 2021. This comes alongside the new Samsung QLED NEO TV lineup we expect from CES 2021.
If MicroLED TV technology sounds at least vaguely familiar, it's probably because Samsung has used the CES stage for two years running to show off the displays it has dubbed as "The Wall." Unlike those modular monsters, however, this new 110-inch display is a one-piece, proper television that's ready to roll right out of the box. In other words, whereas The Wall was designed with commercial use in mind, Samsung is building this huge, next-gen TV specifically for your living room. Or, well ... someone's living room, anyway.
Audio / Video Sony Image used with permission by copyright holder One of the most impressive presentations at CES 2019 was Samsung's mind-boggling, eye-popping, and straight-up monstrous 4K MicroLED display, known as The Wall. This 219-inch goliath comprises multiple panels pressed together, with each one bearing nascent MicroLED display technology. It uses tiny LEDs that are self-emissive -- meaning each pixel lights up independently without the need for a backlight -- for contrast to rival even OLED screens, as well as improved brightness levels.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
