Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Guides Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? MicroLED vs. OLED By Caleb Denison , Simon Cohen and Tyler Lacoma Close In recent years, “MicroLED” has become a bit of a buzzword in the tech and TV community. It’s not a stretch to say that MicroLED TVs could revolutionize how manufacturers make TVs in the future. In comparison to OLED TVs, many people consider MicroLED sets to be a step above.
TV Tech 101 The benefits of MicroLED When can we get it? Apple and MicroLED Samsung and MicroLED Sony and MicroLED Better than OLED? If you’re considering making the change or purchasing a MicroLED TV, there’s plenty you should know before making the switch.
In theory, MicroLED should offer perfect blacks, excellent color, and near-perfect off-angle viewing.
Best OLED TV deals: Save on LG C3, Samsung S90C, and more Mini-LED vs. QLED TV: how one technology is improving the other Hisense just debuted the world’s largest mini-LED TV at 100 inches TV Tech 101 To understand why MicroLED is such a big deal, we need a quick refresher on how modern-day TVs work: Presently, what we call LED TVs are really LCD panels with a bunch of LED lights behind them.
 LCD screens can’t make their own light, so it’s necessary to shine a light behind them to get a picture.
The reason OLED TVs get such great reviews is that OLED panels are what we call an “emissive display” technology. Each pixel in an OLED screen makes its own light, no backlights necessary. The advantages of an emissive display like OLED are perfect black levels, excellent color, and near-perfect off-angle viewing. In other words, OLED is excellent at everything that LCD/LED TVs are not.
The downside to OLED panels? Because they’re made with organic compounds, they’re expensive to make, somewhat limited in brightness, and can potentially suffer burn-in under the most excruciating viewing scenarios. They’re also very difficult to manufacture in large sizes. To date, LG’s 88-inch 8K Z9 OLED is the biggest ever made.
Rich Shibley/Digital Trends The benefits of MicroLED The exciting thing about MicroLED is that it is also an emissive display, but unlike OLED, it doesn’t rely on organic compounds to make light. In theory, MicroLED displays should offer perfect blacks, excellent color, and near-perfect off-angle viewing, just like OLED, but they should also be even brighter, very slim, immune to burn-in, and, in the long run , less expensive to make than OLED.
Because small MicroLED panels can be combined into larger displays, there’s also no limit — from a manufacturing point of view — on screen size. The cost will still play a role, however. In addition to promising stellar picture performance, MicroLED TVs are based on a modular system, allowing users to customize the size of their screen, with the potential to grow it in the future. That said, while the modular technology is advertised as “seamless,” while the displays have improved immensely, so far in our experience, there are still seams if you look closely enough.
When can we get it? Image used with permission by copyright holder Samsung is the closest to letting people purchase a MicroLED TV, but it’s not an option available to most consumers — indeed, Samsung isn’t even discussing pricing for its MicroLED TVs unless you have the right credentials. If you do, then Samsung’s The Wall line is the closest you can get to actually owning this technology: Businesses and those interested in private installations can contact a Samsung rep about purchasing a Wall TV using their webpage here.
The Wall is well-named, and primarily suited for company meeting rooms or private home theaters with enough space to support massive 110-inch or larger screens. Estimates for purchase and installation are running around $100,000 to $300,000.
Apple and MicroLED Samsung and Sony aren’t the only companies actively working on MicroLED. Reports began to surface in 2017 that Apple was experimenting with its own displays using the technology, but it seems that the company has an entirely different use case in mind.
In 2020, Apple invested $330 million in a Tawainese factory focused on researching and building MicroLEDs. Apple is also researching mini-LED technologies, and mini-LED screens are expected to show up on Apple products within the coming year. However, reports indicate that Apple sees MicroLED as the endgame , potentially for smaller products like the Apple Watch or even augmented reality headsets. There’s no sure timeline for when MicroLEDs may show up on Apple products, with the first entry likely still years away.
Samsung and MicroLED Image used with permission by copyright holder Samsung is currently offering three different versions of The Wall TV based on pixel pitch, a.k.a. how small pixels are and how densely they are clustered. The Wall is currently available in 0.84mm, 1.2mm, and 1.6mm pixel pitch.
However, in 2021 Samsung introduced a new version of The Wall that can actually be mounted on, well, the wall — previous versions required professional installation into a wall, while the 2021 version will be able to be mounted on a wall like a more traditional TV. The compromise is in size, with this latest version of The Wall limited to 110, 99, and 88-inch sizes. There’s also a new Multi View feature, that allows users to split the screen into four different sections with four different inputs.
This is good news for MicroLED technology eventually making its way to consumers: Implementing MicroLED in smaller TVs and making them easier to install are key steps in the progress to actually getting one in your home.
Sony and MicroLED After announcing Crystal LED in 2016, it became clear that Sony was also developing a version of MicroLED, although it remains a few steps behind Samsung. Sony first revealed a Crystal LED display for consumer purchase in 2020, but estimated costs started at around $400,000 and quickly went up from there. As with Samsung’s early Wall TVs, these Crystal TVs were also limited to only the very largest screens, starting at 146 inches.
In 2021, Samsung announced Crystal LED C-Series and B-Series, new modular options designed for corporations and select private buyers. These Series are closer to real TVs with video processing and bit mapping to improve images, and can produce brightness levels up to 1800 nits and a broad color gamut. The B-Series has a pixel pitch of 1.56mm, and the C-Series a 1.26mm pitch. These TVs will be available in summer 2021 for as yet unknown prices. This is more or less exactly where Samsung was a couple of years ago.
Better than OLED? As you’ll see in our video above, MicroLED displays — especially those on a larger scale — are simply stunning, with a brightness and color that has never been seen in a display at this size before. As mentioned, even the noticeable seams from early prototypes have been largely dealt with unless you walk right up to a panel and look closely.
But whether MicroLEDs represent a step-up from OLED TVs depends a lot on the size of the screen you want. For the moment, MicroLED screens in the 70-120-inch range are stuck with a lower resolution than similarly sized LED or OLED TVs. For instance, the 75-inch MicroLED TV that Samsung showed at CES 2019, was a 4K model — whereas both OLED and QLED TVs are available in 8K resolution at the same size. So unless your goal is to take over an entire wall, OLED remains a better bet both in terms of image quality and budget.
As we pointed out above, this will change as the technology comes down in price and newer models improve on what MicroLED can do. However, MicroLED and OLED are no longer the only emissive panel technologies.
Samsung recently announced that it would start building TVs based on its QD-OLED (quantum OLED) tech — a hybrid of the quantum dot layers that Samsung uses in its QLED TVs , and OLED technology. This may not increase the size of OLED TVs, but it could have a huge effect on how bright OLED panels can get, without sacrificing their ability to get completely black.
Another possible contender? Mini-LEDs are behind some impressive new displays from TCL , which has been focused on shrinking the size of LED backlights. The smaller the individual backlight LED, the closer you can get to the true-black of OLED.
An OLED set with properly mastered content is still a beautiful sight to behold, and you should certainly consider buying one in 2021 if you’ve been dying for an upgrade. MicroLED is a promising successor, but for now, the technology is limited to extra-large TVs and still too pricey for the consumer market.
Editors' Recommendations Sharp’s promised Roku OLED TV is now available and deeply discounted The best OLED TVs for 2023: from LG, Sony, and Samsung LED vs. LCD TVs explained: What’s the difference? Best Buy TV deals: Save on QLED TVs, OLED TVs, and 8K TVs Hisense kicks off its U8K mini-LED TV availability with deep discounts TV Audio / Video At CES 2023, Hisense promised to bring the U6K mini-LED 4K TV to buyers for under $500. And while it didn't quite make good on that exact wording, we're still impressed that the U6K is now here and available for exactly $500 in the 55-inch screen size. It's available right now at Amazon and at Best Buy, along with the 65-inch ($650), and 75-inch ($848) models.
To put Hisense's achievement in perspective, TCL's most affordable mini-LED TV is the 65-inch QM8, which sells for $1,298.
Audio / Video TCL has finally revealed its full lineup of TVs for 2023, and it includes a new flagship that is sure to give Samsung and Sony some sleepless nights. The 98-inch QM8 isn't TCL's first 98-inch TV, and it isn't the first 98-inch TV to sell for $10,000 or less, but it is the first mini-LED-powered 98-inch TV to sell for such a low price. Samsung's only 98-inch 4K, mini-LED TV -- the excellent QN90A -- costs 50% more at $15,000. Even the 85-inch model, at $2,800 is surprisingly affordable compared to similar mini-LED TVs.
TCL QM8 Mini-LED QLED TV First Look | WOW! TCL Outdid Itself (and Everyone Else) Audio / Video If you're in the market for a new TV and you've been patiently waiting to see how much Sony is asking for its 2023 models (and when you can buy them), today's the day you find out. Unless of course, you've been waiting to see what Sony wants for its latest flagship, the A95L 4K QD-OLED. In that case, we're the bearers of bad news: That model, in all three of its planned sizes (55-, 65-, and 77-inches,) is still MIA, and Sony hasn't indicated when that will change.
Sony Bravia A95L 4K QD-OLED TV Sony Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
