Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Guides Products Mini-LED vs. QLED TV: how one technology is improving the other By Simon Cohen Close Mini-LED and QLED are two TV tech acronyms that have more in common than one might expect. They’re technically both types of LED lighting, but the former is one type of LED lighting, while the latter is what you get when you combine the TV’s LED backlighting with a layer of quantum (that’s where the “Q” comes from) dots. If we’re starting to confuse you, our sincere apologies, but do bear with us.
LEDs: consider the size Mini-LED: a big leap in getting small It’s all about the light (and the dark) Where does QLED fit into all of this? Are there any other benefits to mini-LED? Who makes mini-LED TVs? Let’s take a closer look at both mini-LED and QLED tech , starting with the most important element: the LEDs.
UCLA Samueli School of Engineering LEDs: consider the size There are two primary kinds of TV displays at the moment: Self-emissive displays like OLED and microLED — in which each individual pixel pumps out its own light and color — and backlit displays like LED and QLED TVs, which require a separate backlight to provide a light source, while an LCD matrix and color filters take care of color and controlling how much brightness comes through.
LED TVs and QLED TVs (which are essentially a subset of LED TVs) use LEDs as their backlights. However, not all TVs using this technology are created equal. Inexpensive LED TVs may use only a few LEDs arranged around the outside edges — thus the term “edge-lit” TVs — while the most expensive sets use hundreds of LEDs arranged in a grid-like pattern, sub-divided into individually controlled zones. These are known as full-array local dimming (or FALD for short). The general rule here is that the more LEDs you can pack into a backlight, the brighter it will get and the more control you’ll have over that brightness in very specific areas of the TV’s image.
The best Amazon Fire TV device you should buy in 2023 What is Apple TV+? Pricing, features, how to get it, and more Best Samsung TV deals: Save on QLED and OLED TVs In a perfect world, you’d have one LED for every pixel in an LCD matrix, but right now, that’s impossible. There’s a physical limit to the number of regular LEDs you can squeeze into a given space, which is determined by the size of the LEDs themselves. The bigger they are, the fewer you can use.
Mini-LED: a big leap in getting small This size-based constraint on the number of possible LEDs is what makes mini-LED technology so exciting. It breaks through the previous size barrier by introducing LEDs that are much smaller than any that have been used so far. We’re talking about being able to fit thousands of LEDs in a space that once could support only hundreds.
A 4K TV has just over 8 million pixels , so mini-LEDs are still significantly bigger than an individual pixel, but that’s OK: Mini-LEDs are so much smaller than standard LEDs that you can still see a big difference.
It’s all about the light (and the dark) Image used with permission by copyright holder As we said earlier, more LEDs lead to better brightness — beneficial for HDR as well as making the picture visible in bright rooms — but it also leads to better darkness, too.
To achieve a deep, dark black in a specific portion of the screen on a backlit TV — the kind you expect when looking at space scenes — you need to shut off the backlight in that portion entirely. But even with FALD, if there’s a big difference between the brightest part of the screen and the darkest, it can lead to blooming — an effect that makes it look like light is leaking from the bright portion into the darker portion.
With mini-LEDs, local dimming becomes far more effective because it increases the number of dimmable zones while decreasing their size, making it easier to isolate dark areas from light ones. This not only makes the darker portions of the screen darker, but the contrast created makes the lighter portions seem even brighter.
So far, we haven’t seen a mini-LED TV that gets as perfectly black (and without any blooming) as OLED, but that gap between backlit TVs and emissive displays such as OLED TVs is smaller than it has ever been.
Where does QLED fit into all of this? TCL QLED, or quantum dot LED, uses nano-particles that have a special property: When light shines on them, they can emit their own light, specifically tuned to a certain color. When red and green quantum dots are layered on top of a blue LED backlight, it creates a much fuller-spectrum white light than can be achieved using white LEDs. This pure white light, in turn, helps the TV’s color filter perform more efficiently and accurately. Top-of-the-line QLED TVs can offer image quality that comes very close to OLED. Their brightness and vivid colors can be bolder than OLED, but they still can’t match OLED’s perfect blacks.
That is until the introduction of QD-OLED technology.
 Combining the best of both QLED and OLED displays, these cutting-edge sets are currently produced by Samsung and Sony, and they’re pretty incredible. These TVs are equipped with ultra-powerful LED backlighting and quantum dots, which work in unison to enhance how much light is emitted by the OLED screen’s self-emissive pixels.
The end result is bright and vibrant with cinematic colors, contrast, and inky black levels. We’re big fans of the Samsung S95C , our favorite QD-OLED of 2023, and as time goes on, we’re betting we’ll see this kind of picture tech used by numerous other brands.
Are there any other benefits to mini-LED? Mini-LED TVs are, in every other respect, the same as standard QLED TVs, so the same benefits apply to both: Screen sizes can be bigger, and prices can be lower than OLED TVs (for now, anyway). As the technology matures, we can expect to see mini-LED play a big role in improving image quality while driving down the price of both LED and QLED TVs. There will also be gains in power efficiency, as a large group of smaller LEDs can achieve the same brightness as larger LEDs, yet they need less energy to do so. Since OLED TVs have traditionally used less power than QLED TVs, this is yet another way that mini-LEDs help QLED TVs whittle away at OLED’s advantages.
Who makes mini-LED TVs? Image used with permission by copyright holder TCL started the mini-LED TV movement when it released the first mini-LED TV — the 8-Series Roku TV — in 2019. Since then, TCL has released several mini-LED powered sets, with the 2023 TCL QM8 being one of the company’s latest and greatest.
You can also find mini-LED TVs from brands like Samsung (the 2023 QN90C ), Sony ( the 2022 X95K ), and Hisense (the 2023 U8H ).
Editors' Recommendations Best TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 and more Best 70-inch TV deals: Get a big screen for sports for $450 Best QLED TV deals: Get a 50-inch QLED TV for $250 and more Best 65-inch TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 Best 75-inch TV deals: Get a large screen for under $500 Samsung TCL Audio / Video The Amazon Prime Big Deal Days event is underway any day now but there are already some fantastic early Prime Day TV deals you can shop now. We've rounded them all up below so you can quickly find the right TV for your home and budget. Many of the TVs among the Prime Day deals going on are some of the best TVs around with deep discounts ensuring you can snap one up for a lot less than usual. We're talking big name brands like Samsung, LG, and Sony along with mid-rangers such as TCL and Vizio.
The great deals go for whether you want a standard 4K TV, a QLED model, or something OLED-flavored. There are even some great TV deals on HDTVs if you want something small yet useful for your kid's bedroom or a kitchen. Whatever your plan, let's take a look at what's on sale as part of the early Amazon Prime Big Deal Days event.
Today's best Prime Day TV deals Audio / Video If you’re a connoisseur of great picture quality, or you simply want your new TV to deliver rich colors and incredible contrast, you should be looking at OLEDs. For years now, LG has been the go-to manufacturer of OLED TVs and OLED displays, and even if you buy a Samsung or Sony OLED, chances are that the screen is actually made by LG Display (the company’s panel division). But what exactly makes an OLED so great, you may be asking? The biggest pro these sets have over QLEDs and traditional LEDs is that OLEDs don’t have LED backlights.
This is because an OLED (organic light-emitting diode) panel is made up of millions of self-emissive pixels that can individually be toggled on and off, which is how these TVs are able to achieve the kind of black levels that only plasma sets once rivaled. If you like what you’re reading so far, we have no doubt you’ll enjoy the best OLEDs of 2023 roundup we’ve compiled below. We’ve also had the honor of testing many of these TVs ourselves and have provided links to our full reviews when applicable.
Audio / Video It's been a very quiet year for Vizio so far. The company didn't bring any new TVs to CES 2023, and the welcome announcement that it was updating its aging smart TV software was tempered by the fact that Vizio wouldn't say when its customers would be getting the new experience, simply called Vizio Home Screen.
Our own editor-at-large and resident TV expert, Caleb Denison, penned an op-ed in July outlining his concerns about Vizio's apparent retreat to the TV sidelines and what the company would need to do in order to compete with the onslaught of excellent TVs from TCL and Hisense.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
