Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending in Computing: Best Dell Laptops ChatGPT Best Monitors Asus ROG Azoth Review How to delete a page in Word in 3 easy steps RTX 4080 vs RTX 4070 Ti Best Mac Apps AMD vs Intel Recall an Email in Outlook Home Audio / Video Features Samsung Display’s QD-OLED TV first look: Best. Picture. Ever.
By Caleb Denison Close I was beginning to think it was the tech unicorn of CES 2022.
: A quantum dot OLED display that, by specs and science alone, had the potential to revolutionize TV picture quality. Then I saw it up close, and I’m here to tell you it is the best-looking image I’ve ever seen from a screen. And not by an incremental margin, either. I hate the term “game-changer,” but it absolutely applies here. I couldn’t be more excited for this massive leap forward for TVs in 2022.
What is QD-OLED, again? QD-OLED is the truth When can you buy QD-OLED? For rich people first — then the rest of us How I finally came to see Samsung Display’s QD-OLED (important note: This is not a consumer television from Samsung Electronics) is an adventurous tale unto its own, and one best left for another story. Here, I want to focus on what I saw and why I am convinced that this latest adaptation to OLED display technology is the most exciting thing I’ve seen since the introduction of HDR TVs.
Brandon Walsh You may have read or watched reports about QD-OLED that were based on technical briefings, but they are full of speculation and educated guesswork. As one of the few TV reviewers who has been fortunate enough to put their eyes on this technology, I’d like to offer some unique perspectives based on both subjective and objective analysis.
QD-OLED isn’t just the usual CES hype — this tech is for real.
What is QD-OLED, again? To understand what makes QD-OLED different from conventional OLED , it’s important to understand how conventional OLED TVs work.
Sony’s 2023 A95L QD-OLED TV up for preorder in August starting at $2,800 This Samsung S90C OLED TV news is literally huge Samsung confirms its 2023 QD-OLED TVs start at just $1,900, are available now The OLED panels available on the market today are manufactured by LG Display (like Samsung Display, you can think of LG Display as a separate sister company to LG Electronics) and used by LG, Sony, Panasonic, and several other brands in OLED TVs. They are WRGB OLEDs, which is to say there is a white OLED subpixel (that’s the W in WRGB) used to boost the brightness of red, green, and blue (RGB) OLED pixels. It’s a solution that has worked well for several years now — OLED TVs consistently sit at the top of our list of the best TVs you can buy. But it is not without its drawbacks, and those drawbacks all point back to the use of a color filter and white subpixel.
QD-OLED panels get rid of the white subpixel and color filter entirely by using an all-blue OLED panel with a sheet of printed quantum dots that shine red and green when activated by the blue OLED light. The result is a true RGB display. Without the color filter, overall brightness is increased significantly. And without the white subpixel, the brightness of colors is also significantly boosted.
Other promised benefits to QD-OLED displays are consistent color saturation when viewed off-angle, and significantly reduced potential for burn-in.
In other words, QD-OLED keeps all the advantages of WRGB OLED and mitigates its few (but significant) drawbacks. On paper, this sounds very exciting. But tech reporters have rightfully remained skeptical, pending in-person viewing.
Digital Trends QD-OLED is the truth After sitting through a short briefing, I was shown Samsung Display’s QD-OLED display, mocked up as a TV. It didn’t have a tuner, smart TV interface, or several other things that make a TV a TV. But the proof of what it is capable of was accurately represented in the demonstration I saw, and it was nothing short of astonishing.
QD-OLED’s higher brightness and superior color saturation has a tremendously dazzling and delightful impact, and the display tech’s ability to show much higher levels of detail in dark, shadowy areas is immediately apparent. What I experienced was a picture with incredible detail, depth, richness, and zeal. It simultaneously was vivid and deep, with an almost 3D-like effect.
Once I calmed my own excitement a bit, I dug a little deeper and noticed that the white light it produced was of much higher purity than the whites I’m used to seeing from WRGB OLED TVs, which tend to have a green tint. That tint isn’t something you notice when watching an OLED TV on its own, but it is impossible not to see it when it sits next to LED TVs and, in this case, the QD-OLED.
Off-angle viewing also was clearly superior. Any degradation in picture quality from well off to the side was difficult to discern without deep scrutiny. And frankly, it probably isn’t something most viewers would notice anyway.
In a separate demonstration, where a 34-inch computer monitor version of the tech was at work, I noted a complete absence of motion blur from quick-scrolling test patterns. This was real-world proof of QD-OLED’s 0.5ms response time for TVs, and 0.1ms response time for computing displays. Text was also significantly sharper than what I’ve seen from conventional OLED displays.
Clearly, QD-OLED is going to be as exciting for gamers as it is for videophiles.
Image used with permission by copyright holder QD-OLED will be here later this year, but it’s going to cost you.
When can you buy QD-OLED? The good news is that the wait for a QD-OLED TV won’t be long. A representative at Sony informed me the company is targeting a late spring 2022 launch for its Bravia A95K QD-OLED TV. The bad news is that I expect that TV to be extremely expensive.
For its part, Dell’s Alienware gaming division has already shown off a 34-inch widescreen gaming monitor using QD-OLED and promises it is coming soon. Again, I expect that fine piece of hardware to be jaw-droppingly expensive compared to even the most expensive gaming monitors available today.
As for Samsung? Who knows. While Samsung Display makes the technology, Samsung Electronics — which makes the TVs we put in our homes — is remaining tight-lipped with any details around a Samsung-branded QD-OLED TV. I do, however, expect we will have some more information on a Samsung QD-OLED TV (they will probably call it QD-Display, because Samsung) in early March 2022.
For rich people first — then the rest of us As is often the case with groundbreaking tech, it will be too expensive for most folks when it is first launched, then will come down in price over the course of several years. It may be some time until you or I could hope to own a QD-OLED TV, but just knowing that we can someday have such a stunning picture in our homes one day is a bright future to which I very much look forward.
Editors' Recommendations MSI has some massive QD-OLED monitor news in the works TV model numbers are confusing enough, and Samsung’s making it worse Samsung wants you to reserve the Odyssey OLED G9 — without knowing the price Does QD-OLED have a burn-in problem? I saw Sony’s 2023 TVs, and I think this model might be the best TV of the year Computing News Features Samsung Audio / Video Confirming an earlier leak, Samsung has formally announced the price of its 77-inch 4K QD-OLED TV, the S95C. The new model which was shown first at CES 2023, will sell for $4,500.
, and Samsung says shipments will begin later in the month. Those who buy the TV during the preorder period will also qualify for free professional installation, which Samsung says is worth $250.
Computing Samsung's first QD-OLED gaming monitor is available now. First announced in August 2022, the Odyssey OLED G8 is a 34-inch ultrawide gaming display sporting QD-OLED technology, but it has a problem -- we've already had this same monitor for nearly a year.
Here's a quick rundown on the specs. The Odyssey OLED G8 is a 34-inch QD-OLED monitor with a 3,440 x 1,440 resolution, a 21:9 aspect ratio, and a 175Hz refresh rate. It also comes with some nifty features like up to 65 watts of USB power delivery, and it's earned VESA's DisplayHDR True Black 400 certification.
Audio / Video Usually, when new TVs are announced at CES, it can take months for companies to reveal pricing and availability. And perhaps Samsung was planning to do just that with its 77-inch S95C, its largest QD-OLED TV to date. But the company seemingly let the cat out of the bag on January 26, by including the new model -- and its price -- on its U.S. website, according to Sammobile.
The S95C details are no longer on the website, so Digital Trends can't verify the information, however, a screenshot taken at the time shows a price of $4499.99, making the larger model $1,500 more expensive than its currently available 65-inch S95B, which sells for $3,000. If this seems like a bigger gap in price than we're used to for models that exist in both 65- and 77-inch sizes, it could be because the S95C is going to be Samsung's premium 77-inch QD-OLED, with the planned S90C arriving in a 77-inch size but with fewer features.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
