Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: What is Roku? Best Roku TVs How to Pair a Roku Remote The Roku Channel How to Use AirPlay on Roku Best Roku Devices Star Button on Roku Remote Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Roku Streaming Stick 4K review: The Roku stick to get By Phil Nickinson Close $50.00 Affordable Easy to use All the features you want Roku's advertising scheme means tracking There’s a reason Roku is the biggest streaming platform in the United States. OK, there are a few reasons. That it’s inexpensive is one. Its priciest traditional streaming product (not counting the newfangled speakers) is about $100 — and that’s before you take any sale pricing into account.
Streaming Stick 4K and the secret of Roku’s success Putting the Plus in Roku Streaming Stick 4K+ Our take In reality, though, the $50 mark is more of the sweet spot. And that’s where we find ourselves with the new Roku Streaming Stick 4K , and its close cousin, the Roku Streaming Stick 4K+.
 Both are part of the Fall 2021 refresh, and both are going to play a major part in the Roku lineup going forward — even though they’re also not actually the most important thing for Roku in terms of the company’s overall business strategy. Yes, we’ll get into those weeds a tiny bit below.
Best TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 and more Best 70-inch TV deals: Get a big screen for sports for $450 Best QLED TV deals: Get a 50-inch QLED TV for $250 and more But, really, what you need to know is this: For most folks, the Roku Streaming Stick 4K and the Streaming Stick 4K + are going to be the Roku sticks to buy. Here’s why.
Streaming Stick 4K and the secret of Roku’s success If you’ve never given Roku a go before, here’s the short, short version: It’s a company that has a series of devices — “streaming sticks,” if you will, though the hardware lineup is definitely more than that — that are inexpensive and easy to use so that you can watch just about any streaming service you could want to watch.
Roku also is putting a lot of weight behind The Roku Channel, which is its advertising-based channel that features dozens and dozens of series and shows and movies. One downside, and it’s one that stretches across the entire Roku ecosystem, is found here. Advertising means tracking. And tracking means trading information on you and what you watch with Roku.
 In exchange, you get shows and affordable products. That’s the deal.
The hardware is available at a number of prices, none of which breaks the bank. The least expensive option is the Roku Express , which is now the only one that doesn’t support 4K resolution. The Roku Streaming Stick 4K is at the top of the inexpensive part of the lineup, and it’s been refreshed a tad for 2021.
The internals are updated, but otherwise the Roku Streaming Stick 4K is the same Roku experience — just better.
What’s new is what we typically call “speeds and feeds.” That’s tech-speak for important-but-not-exciting-improvements to the internal components.
Roku says the new quad-core processor is up to 30% faster. That’s just numbers on paper, of course. And unless you’re running things side by side, you’ll be forgiven if you say “I can’t tell anything.” But when you combine it with some of the software improvements it has helped the streaming services implement over the past couple of years — and the new Roku OS 10.5 operating system — it does make a marked difference. Incremental, yes. But, again, that’s a good thing.
Wi-Fi also is getting a little bit of a boost in the new hardware. Technically it’s running Wi-Fi 5, aka 802.11ac. That’s the previous-generation Wi-Fi standard, but it’s also far fast enough from the perspective of speed, and probably just fine for most people who have no idea (nor care to know) how their home network actually works. It’s also using MIMO dual-band, if that’s the sort of thing you worry about. If you don’t worry about it, that’s OK. You still want it.
Roku also says it’s reworked the radios and antennas on the hardware side, and you’ll see better access point selection in the latest operating system. So there’s that.
One nice touch here — and it’s something I like over, say, the Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K Max — is how the power cord is where the wireless antennas are tucked in, which is important to note. It is, however, lacking an HDMI extender in the box, and that could be a problem for some TVs.
Elsewhere on the specs front, you’ve got Dolby Vision and HDR10 for high dynamic range, and Dolby Atmos for audio. Of course, you’ll need a TV and sound system that can handle those standards, but that’s a lot of licensed firepower in a $50 device.
Otherwise, it’s pretty much the same Roku experience you’ve likely been enjoying for years. It still works great. Just a little better. And it’s still the only platform to give you access to Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant , in addition to Roku ’s own assistant. Plus you can still hit up Apple’s HomeKit or AirPlay 2.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends Putting the Plus in Roku Streaming Stick 4K+ There is one difference between Roku Streaming Stick 4K and Roku Streaming Stick 4K +, and one difference only. And that is the remote control that’s included.
Roku in the spring of 2021 introduced the Roku Voice Remote Pro.
 It still looks and feels like the premium Roku remote, with the headphone jack for private listening, and customizable buttons for voice commands in addition to the new hands-free mode. But this one ditches the replaceable batteries for a rechargeable setup. Better for the environment, bad if you hate occasionally recharging your remote control.
It’s deceptively light, which probably is only a thing if you’re used to the voice remote with replaceable batteries. But it’s also not insignificant, shedding about 30% of the weight of the older remote with a headphone jack to get things down to 2.8 ounces. That doesn’t really make up for the fact that it uses Micro USB for charging, which is darned near unforgivable in 2021. It’s far past time to rip off that bandage.
The Voice Remote Pro also has a feature that helps you find the remote when you lose it. Which is nice.
It was a little odd to see a screen on first boot instructing me to install the batteries into the remote before paring it. That’s a very small nitpick in what otherwise is Roku ’s excellent onboarding process. But it’s a dumb one that Roku should have caught before shipping the Streaming Stick 4K + to reviewers. That said, it’s entirely possible that it’ll be fixed for retail setups. But don’t be surprised if you see that confusing screen. The 4K + doesn’t have any batteries to install.
1.
The Roku Voice Remote Pro.
2.
The on/off switch for the always-listening microphone on the Roku Voice Remote Pro.
3.
Roku requires you to actively acknowledge that the remote control will be listening.
Roku handles the idea of an always-listening remote the right way.
Roku does, however, make up for that misstep by how it handles the hands-free mode. If you don’t want a remote control that’s always listening for your command, you can hit the slider button to turn it off. And Roku explicitly spells that out in one of the first onboarding screens — and requires you to acknowledge the feature before continuing setup. The on-off slider is color-coded, and the remove gives an audible alert when you turn the mic on or off in addition to an on-screen notification. Very nice.
Speaking of the hands-free voice control, it works just fine. Say “Hey, Roku ” and then a command, and it does so quickly. In other words, it works, and it works well.
Is that worth the $20 premium over the Streaming Stick 4K ? It’s your call. But do note that the Roku Voice Remote Pro costs $30 if you were to buy it on its own.
Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends Our take The Roku Streaming Stick 4K isn’t going to change the way you use Roku if you’re a current Roku user. It’s not going to change the way you stream video if you’re looking at switching. What you’re getting here is an iterative update on a product that’s been undergoing iterative updates for years.
That’s a good thing, actually. It shows that what Roku does works. It works for Roku as a company — providing low-cost hardware that still makes money — and it works for you as the customer, giving you an easy way to watch the things you want to watch.
Just know that a big part of the Roku strategy going forward is based in advertising, both in traditional display ads on the home screens as well as ads sold on The Roku Channel. In fact, in the second quarter of 2021, Roku made about $532 million in the “platform” category — basically everything but hardware — and $113 million in the “player” category.
Going forward, it really is more about what Roku ’s able to give you — whether it’s on The Roku Channel or some other streaming service from which Roku takes a cut — and less about what you’re watching it on. The Roku Streaming Stick 4K is a commodity. It’s the one I’d buy if I’m looking to spend less than $100, but it’s also not something I’d think too long and hard about, nor is it meant to be.
Roku Express Roku Express 4K+ Roku Streaming Stick 4K Roku Streaming Stick 4K+ Year released 2019 2021 2021 2021 Retail price $25 $40 $50 $70 Resolution 1080p 4K 4K 4K Dolby Vision No No Yes Yes Dolby Atmos No No Yes Yes Wi-Fi version Wi-Fi 4 Wi-Fi 5 Wi-Fi 5 Wi-Fi 5 Storage 256MB 4GB 8GB 4GB Memory 512MB 1G 1.5GB 2GB Are there any alternatives? Sure. Roku has a bevy of devices that all work the same but bring different specs and features to the game. If you just have to be plugged in with Ethernet or have expandable storage, for example, check out the latest Roku Ultra.
 If Roku just isn’t your thing, or you don’t like the idea of what effectively is now an advertising company being in charge of your viewing habits, then maybe the Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K Max is for you.
Or if you want more power and a simpler experience — something that’s going to last for far more years than you might expect — then check out the newest Apple TV 4K.
 Or if Apple just isn’t your thing, then Nvidia Shield and Android TV may be the way to go.
Basically, if it plugs into a TV, it’s an alternative. Dealer’s choice.
How long will it last? Can’t tell ya. It’s a piece of plastic, not a plant.
But at $50 retail, you’ll more than get your money’s worth if you get a couple of years of use out of the Roku Streaming Stick 4K.
 And if you get the Streaming Stick 4K + with the better remote control, it’s an even better deal because that remote control can be used with any other Roku device that you buy in the future.
Should you buy it? Sure. If you love Roku and don’t want to spring for the better Roku hardware, this is what I’d get.
Editors' Recommendations Sharp’s promised Roku OLED TV is now available and deeply discounted The best Amazon Fire TV device you should buy in 2023 What is Apple TV+? Pricing, features, how to get it, and more Best 65-inch TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 Best 75-inch TV deals: Get a large screen for under $500 Cord Cutting 101 Media Streamer Reviews Product Reviews Roku TV Audio / Video The Amazon Prime Big Deal Days event is underway any day now but there are already some fantastic early Prime Day TV deals you can shop now. We've rounded them all up below so you can quickly find the right TV for your home and budget. Many of the TVs among the Prime Day deals going on are some of the best TVs around with deep discounts ensuring you can snap one up for a lot less than usual. We're talking big name brands like Samsung, LG, and Sony along with mid-rangers such as TCL and Vizio.
The great deals go for whether you want a standard 4K TV, a QLED model, or something OLED-flavored. There are even some great TV deals on HDTVs if you want something small yet useful for your kid's bedroom or a kitchen. Whatever your plan, let's take a look at what's on sale as part of the early Amazon Prime Big Deal Days event.
Today's best Prime Day TV deals Audio / Video There are currently many ways for you to access all the shows and movies you want from all your favorite streaming services, be it Netflix, Max, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, or Disney+. For many people, using whatever is built into to your TV is just fine. That could be one of the more popular streaming platforms, like Roku, Amazon Fire TV, or Google TV. But there are plenty of reasons to use an external streaming device, too.
The major players in the streaming device game — Amazon Fire TV, Apple TV, Android TV, Google TV, Roku — are all fighting for your money, so we're here to make sure you throw it at the right streaming device for you and your budget. These devices typically range from as low as $30 to as high as $200.
Audio / Video Sony Bravia Core, the video streaming service that offers movie purchases and rentals in high bandwidths of up to 80Mbps on select Sony Bravia TVs, has launched as its own app on the Sony PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 5 consoles, where it's now called Sony Pictures Core. It can be downloaded for free from the Media section on PS5 and on the PS Store for PS4.
Editor's note, October 10: our original story from October 5 assumed that Sony Pictures Core on PlayStation consoles would preserve the 80Mbps "Pure Stream" feature of Sony Bravia Core on Sony's TVs. However, a report from FlatpanelsHD claims this isn't the case. Those who have downloaded the new app on PlayStation consoles do not see the Pure Stream tag on movies.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
