Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Samsung S95B OLED hands-on review: Brilliant potential By Caleb Denison Close Samsung has been using OLED screens in its phones for years. But for the single exception of the short-lived ES9500 in 2012, the company has refused to make an OLED TV. In fact, for the past 10 years, as LG amassed accolades for its OLED TVs, Samsung took every available opportunity (and spared no expense) to pound the table about how its LCD-based TVs were superior to OLED.
Design Features Unboxing and setup Picture quality Audio performance The takeaway To be fair, today’s advanced micro-LED backlit, quantum dot-infused LCD TVs do hold a few advantages over OLED, but despite a decade of technological advancement, OLED’s perfect blacks and stunning contrast still remain elusive to LCD-based TVs. One can only cheat the laws of physics to a point.
So when I learned that Samsung Display had developed a new technology that paired OLED with quantum dots — commonly referred to as QD-OLED — I wondered if Samsung Electronics would use it in a TV. All that OLED bashing might be hard to walk back … or so I thought.
Samsung S95C OLED hands-on review: it’s time to get excited Samsung shows off the first two 77-inch QD-OLED 4K TVs at CES 2023 Turns out, Samsung isn’t worried about walking anything back. The new S95B TV, available for pre-order in 55- and 65-inch options for $2,200 and $3,000 respectively, is bluntly marketed as “Samsung OLED,” positioned as an enhancement to its already sprawling TV lineup. And while some enthusiasts think it might be the next big thing in TV, Samsung doesn’t actually consider the S95B a flagship TV. Go figure.
So, how good is this new TV and how does it look stacked up against the competition? Let’s find out. But if you’d like a little QD-OLED primer first, you can learn more about QD-OLED here.
Design Digital Trends While Sony chose a rather elaborate design for its competing A95K QD-OLED TV , Samsung opted for something more conventional and practical. The S95B’s stand is elegant, comprising solid metal with a brushed finish, and has a modest footprint, easing placement on a media stand or credenza. The stand also allows ample vertical clearance for a soundbar, which can’t be said about Sony’s A95K.
The S95B is otherwise understated, with virtually invisible bezels around the screen, and an eye-catching, thin profile.
Previous Next 1 4 Digital Trends Digital Trends Digital Trends Digital Trends Along with the S95B comes Samsung’s latest remote control , which is outfitted with solar cells on the back for charging its built-in rechargeable battery. For those without ample sunlight in their TV room, the remote also charges wirelessly via radio waves — that includes any Wi-Fi signals beaming through the space — and via USB-C.
Features Digital Trends The S95 is loaded with far too many features to list here, but there are a few that set Samsung’s premium sets — including the S95B — apart this year.
TV geeks will be thrilled to know that the S95B packs four HDMI 2.1 inputs , all capable of 4K at 120Hz, HDR , variable refresh rate (VRR) with FreeSync Premium , and Auto Low Latency Mode (ALLM). One of the HDMI inputs is designated as an eARC port , but one could conceivably connect a PlayStation 5 , Xbox Series X , gaming PC, and soundbar or A/V receiver all at once.
For those who believe cloud gaming is the future, it is expected that Samsung’s forthcoming gaming hub will support Nvidia’s GeForce Now , Google’s Stadia , and Microsoft’s Xbox Cloud Gaming.
 At the time I published this review, there was no official word on whether Samsung will support Sony’s recently revamped PlayStation Plus , but if history is any indication, it probably will, and soon.
Another gaming’ friendly aspect of Samsung’s gaming hub is a “game bar” which places key picture quality adjustments and performance metrics right at the bottom of the screen with just a click.
If it hasn’t become clear already, Samsung is going all-in on gaming with its premium TV lineup. With that said, the S95B maxes at out 120Hz refresh rate, while a select few of its Neo QLED TVs now support up to 144Hz.
Samsng QLED demo content on the new OLED-based S95B TV Digital Trends One feature that remains missing for Samsung TVs: Dolby Vision HDR.
 The S95B does, however, support HDR10, HDR10+, and HLG.
Other clever, user-focused features include a new Picture-in-Picture mode for watching multiple sources of content at once and Samsung’s tap-to-share feature which can instantly mirror content from a compatible Android smartphone.
On the audio features front, the S95B supports Samsung’s Object Tracking Sound, which uses multiple built-in speakers to make it seems as if sound is coming from objects’ locations on the screen. The S95B also supports Samsung’s Q-Symphony Sound , which operates the TV’s speaker system in concert with a Samsung soundbar. Rounding out the audio feature list is a wireless audio connection for Samsung soundbars that supports Dolby Atmos via Dolby Digital Plus.
 By using Wi-Fi, the audio connection is fast enough to eliminate latency, though a built-in lip-sync function usually abates any audio delay issues anyway.
Rounding out my list of the most notable features is Samsung’s Ambient Mode, which allows users to take a picture of their TV among its surroundings, and use that image information to create wallpaper that mimics the TV’s surroundings. This way, rather than exist as a black hole on the wall, the TV can pull off a chameleon-like effect and better blend into the room. In my experience, this feature works best when the wall on which the TV is mounted features colors other than white or off-white, and textures that are easily visible from afar.
Unboxing and setup Digital Trends I’ll fill in this section with my unboxing experience once I have received a review sample and performed a proper evaluation of the S95B, but for now, there are a couple of notable set-up features worth noting.
Samsung’s Smart Things app allows users to perform most of their TV setup using a smartphone. This holds the promise of speeding up the process by logging into Wi-Fi access points and streaming apps using credentials stored on the phone. I’ve yet to see this feature work out with streaming apps as intended, but perhaps 2022 is the year I’ll be pleasantly surprised. Otherwise, I find a manual setup using the TV’s remote control and on-screen interface to be a bit faster.
If Samsung’s EZCAL works properly, it could be a game-changer.
Samsung also has a picture settings app available called EZCAL, currently available for select Samsung Galaxy phone users only, though app availability is expected to expand soon. The app promises to adjust a TV’s picture settings to meet established picture quality standards, like a D65 white point and accurate DCI P-3 color coverage. I haven’t had a chance to test this app’s results against my own calibration settings and results, but if Samsung can get this app to work properly, it could be a game-changer for users who want the most accurate picture quality possible without having to spend money on a professional calibrator. I eagerly look forward to updating this section after I have had a chance to test several 2022 Samsung TVs.
Picture quality Digital Trends To be clear, I was only able to experience the S95B at a Samsung event in New York City, where the content playing was a pre-recorded loop on a USB stick and could not be changed. I couldn’t adjust the picture settings on the TV, either, so the demo footage I saw — while very familiar to me — was locked in the TV’s Standard picture preset, with a color temperature a little bit colder than I would have chosen for a proper evaluation.
With that said, I have had extensive experience testing Sony’s A95K QD-OLED using the same panel technology, so I know what the technology is capable of. Ultimately, picture quality differences will be directly related to picture processing preferences exercised by Samsung.
From what I was able to view, Samsung has done a fantastic job with its processing on its new OLED display. Black levels, as expected, were perfect. I wasn’t able to view much in the way of low-luminance content, but what little I did see indicates that Samsung has managed to preserve a respectable amount of shadow detail in near-black scenes.
Black levels, as expected, were perfect.
On the opposite side of the spectrum, it appeared to my eyes that the S95B was able to hit around 1000 nits in peak highlights, which is in keeping with the other QD-OLED panels I’ve tested, including the aforementioned Sony A95K TV and Dell’s Alienware 34 QD-OLED monitor.
 Average picture level for the HDR content that was on display was sufficiently bright for the moderated illuminated display setting in which the S95B was set. Historically, Samsung has programmed its TVs to perform just a touch brighter than the established electro-optical transfer function (EOTF) standard, which, while not technically accurate, results in a vivid picture that I’ve found most folks prefer.
Digital Trends Colors looked quite vivid and well-saturated to my naked eye, though I’ll be curious to see how Samsung’s processing handles keeping colors in balance when they are shone at their brightest.
The footage I viewed gave me little to no opportunity to gauge the S95B’s motion processing, though if Samsung’s recent high-end TVs are any indication, motion will be judder-free when viewing cinematic content. What remains to be seen is how well the TV does at mitigating a flashing effect that can be seen in slow panning scenes when high-contrast images are displayed.
The S95B could end up being one of the hottest tickets in 2022.
I’m also looking forward to testing how well the S95B upscales and digitally scrubs low-resolution streaming content, such as that found on Samsung TV Plus, an aggregation of free streaming TV options ( like Pluto TV ) that are usually of low resolution and limited bit-depth.
Audio performance Unfortunately, I was not able to evaluate the S95B’s sound quality at all. What I can say is that the TV does not feature the same transducers affixed to the screen which makes the screen itself a speaker — technology that Sony has employed for the A95K. However, with four separate drivers placed on the back of the TV and Samsung’s Object Tracking Sound processing, I am optimistic that the S95B will sound solid. Still, a TV of this quality is deserving of at least a soundbar, if possible.
The takeaway At first glance, the S95B appears to be an extremely competitive high-end TV. That it is priced at $2,300 for the 55-inch model and $3,000 for the 65-inch model puts it in close competition with LG’s premium G2 Gallery Series OLED TVs, and undercuts its closest technical competition, the Sony A95K, by as much as $1,000. This means that the S95B could end up being one of the hottest tickets on the TV market this year — it’s certainly one of the best TVs of 2022 To be certain, the competition among high-end TVs in 2022 is going to be extremely tight. I look forward to digging deeper into the Samsung S95B’s performance over the coming weeks and publishing a full review shortly thereafter.
Editors' Recommendations This Samsung S90C OLED TV news is literally huge Samsung accidentally reveals price of its 77-inch QD-OLED TV Samsung TV Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Audio / Video If you've been thinking about buying new headphones or earbuds, the good news is that you already have access to massive discounts through early Black Friday deals from retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart. There's a lot of options to choose from, ranging from budget models to high-end devices, so to help with your decision, we've rounded up the best Black Black Friday headphone and earbud deals that you can shop right now. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase though, as we're not sure how much time is remaining for these offers. If you see a bargain that you like, we recommended that you push through with the transaction as soon as you can.
Best Black Friday headphone deals For shoppers who have been thinking about taking advantage of headphone deals, don't let the discounts of Black Friday end without buying a new pair. You may want to check out our roundup of the best headphones for recommendations on what to purchase, as well as our headphone buying guide to figure out the features that will be important to you. There are so many headphones on sale across the different retailers, but we've gathered our favorite offers below to try to help you narrow down your choices. Some of our favorite are JBL and Beats Black Friday deals. It won't be easy, but this is a good place to start as any.
Audio / Video In the spirit of the holiday shopping season, SVS Sound is offering some incredible deals -- and by incredible, we mean record-breaking for the brand. SVS Sound has actually never participated in Black Friday festivities before, and they may never do it again. So, this may be your only chance to save this big. You name it, it's discounted. There are speakers, subwoofers, sound systems, and more discounted. Take the Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
