Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video News Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Should you install beta updates for Apple TV 4K? By Phil Nickinson Close Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends This is sort of one of those things that you see pop up from time to time whenever Apple unleashes an onslaught of new beta software. And it’s worth discussing. Should you, proud owner of an Apple TV (or the newer Apple TV 4K , which is still our pick for the best streaming hardware you can buy), simply sit back and let production-level tvOS updates hit your box as Steve Jobs intended? Or should you live on the edge and take your chances with beta updates? What is a beta update? Why deal with beta updates? Should you use an Apple TV beta update? How to install beta software on Apple TV It’s a fair question. I’m a sucker for updates. But there’s a little bit to think about here.
What is a beta update? For us mere mortals (as in someone who doesn’t work at Apple), there are three software tracks from which you can choose on Apple TV. There’s the regular software that everybody gets, which we’ll call “Production.” Because that’s what it is. There are two types of betas. There’s “Developer,” and there’s “Public.” How much is Apple TV+? Apple TV’s tvOS 17.2 beta adds a sidebar to the TV app Are Apple TV screensavers real? The oversimplified version is that those designations point to the software’s place in the release track. The further along things are, the more testing they should have received, and thus the more bug-free the software should be. Developer is on the bleeding edge. Public beta is intended for more widespread, public release. And then the production software is what retail units (and the vast majority of folks) will get.
Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends Why deal with beta updates? So why even play around with beta software? The real reason is because that’s where you’ll find new features before they’re released on the Production track. Sometimes they’re in various stages of development. They could be close to finished, or not. Buttons could stay put, or they could move around a little bit. That’s why we typically don’t report all that much on beta software — though there are exceptions. And when we do , we note that we’re talking about beta software, which very much is subject to change.
It’s also very possible that things will break. While we’ve experienced this far less on the Apple TV platform, phone nerds (I’m raising my hand as one) know full well that beta software can break things. That’s because the software on platforms — like tvOS, iOS, or Android — contains code called APIs, short for Application Programming Interface. That’s the code that lets an app talk with the hardware and the services that run on it. Beta software can introduce new APIs that won’t work with an app that’s not updated for them, or it can break older APIs.
That’s the true function of beta software, and the developer and public tracks of testing. Developers get the new features early to figure out how to implement them. The public beta allows non-developers to test things out ahead of public release. (Certainly, there is all kinds of non-public testing going on, but that’s not for us to worry about.) Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends Should you use an Apple TV beta update? So let’s circle back around to the question at hand. Should you install a beta software update for your Apple TV? I’ll answer that question with another question: Do you get a stern look from a spouse or a roommate or a parent if and when you go monkeying around with something you probably shouldn’t be monkeying around with, and it breaks, and you have to explain that it’s broken and that you’re trying to fix it and it shouldn’t really take that long and it’s fine because you really won’t ever do this again? If that last part at all sounds like you, tread cautiously. But the good news is that major issues in tvOS beta software have been fairly rare. That doesn’t mean they won’t occur, and it doesn’t mean things won’t ever break. But there’s also a decent chance that should you install a beta update, no one will be the wiser.
Why bother with any of this? If you’re a developer, the reasons are self-explanatory and you don’t need us to tell you why. But for everyone else, it’s really just a matter of wanting to try out new features without having to wait for the production software to land. Sometimes that also requires a software update to your phone, in the case of the iPhone/Apple TV Facetime feature in iOS 17.
 But for something like the updated TV app in iOS 17.2, a quick update on your Apple TV box is all it takes.
It’s your call. And the good news is that Apple makes updating to beta software easier than ever.
How to install beta software on Apple TV It used to be that you had to jump through some hoops to install beta software on Apple products. It’s now super easy.
Open the Settings app on your Apple TV. Scroll down to System , and then choose Software Updates.
 Toggle Get Beta Updates to On.
 Now choose whether you want the Developer track, or the Public Beta track.
Then sit back and let the update do its thing.
Editors' Recommendations The hidden costs of buying a 4K TV are way higher than you think What is Apple TV+? Pricing, features, how to get it, and more Apple TV+ and other Apple One services get a price hike Sony Bravia X95L mini-LED vs. TCL QM8 QLED: The best LCD TV and the one you should buy Should you buy an obsolete Apple TV? Apple Apple TV Tech News Audio / Video Sony has announced that it's about to begin taking preorders on its 2023 Bravia A75L OLED 4K TV -- a model that shares all of the same high-end picture quality technologies found on the company's Bravia A80L, but costs much less. The A75L is available in 55- and 65-inch screen sizes, for $1,600 and $2,000 respectively. That's up to $500 less than the same sizes of the A80L. Sony expects preorders to begin in early October.
The A75L definitely brings the price of Sony's incredible OLED TV picture quality within reach of more people, but if you're in the market to buy a new TV right now, you may want to check out Sony or Amazon for their current pricing on the Bravia A80L: the 55-inch model is $1,600 (the same as the A75L) and the 65-inch model is just $1,800 ($200 less than the A75L).
Audio / Video It's been a very quiet year for Vizio so far. The company didn't bring any new TVs to CES 2023, and the welcome announcement that it was updating its aging smart TV software was tempered by the fact that Vizio wouldn't say when its customers would be getting the new experience, simply called Vizio Home Screen.
Our own editor-at-large and resident TV expert, Caleb Denison, penned an op-ed in July outlining his concerns about Vizio's apparent retreat to the TV sidelines and what the company would need to do in order to compete with the onslaught of excellent TVs from TCL and Hisense.
Audio / Video Using the "Find My" app to find an AirTag in an Apple TV remote case is more accurate. Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends Of all the new features in iOS 17 and tvOS 17, one of the ones I was most eager to try was the new "Find My Remote" feature. It doesn't have an official name, and it isn't actually part of the Find My app. But, still. Anything that makes it easier to find a lost remote is a good thing, right? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
