Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Google TVs of 2023: from TCL, Sony, and Hisense By Michael Bizzaco and Derek Malcolm Close Google TV has been around for a minute, and because the platform isn’t exclusive to one TV brand , this means you’ll have plenty of options. Google TV also works similarly and consistently from one TV brand to the next, with features like recommended content, Chromecast, and Google Assistant being mainstays. Where models do tend to differ though is with elements such as picture quality, motion capabilities, and overall performance. Not to worry, though: We’re here to help you dive through the haystack! All the TVs on our list are backboned by Google TV, and there's a reason people love it. The stable and robust OS connects you to all your favorite TV shows and movies through streaming services from Netflix and Hulu to Disney+ and Amazon Prime Video.
 Google TV also pays attention to your viewing habits, and will curate a home screen packed with content that aligns with the kinds of genres you love most. Let's get started.
Note : Google TV used to be called Android TV until a broad upgrade changed the name and interface while adding new AI technology for recommendations, etc. We've included an Android TV on this list as well because, for the time being, it's still a relevant platform, but most new TVs will be running Google TV instead of Android TV.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More More Zeke Jones/Digital Trends TCL QM8 mini-LED The Google TV most people should buy Stunning HDR performance Class-leading brightness Excellent black levels Virtually no detectable blooming Very good color saturation/brightness Some motion artifacts One of the key themes for TVs in 2023 has been brightness, and so far few can come anywhere close to TCL's ridiculously bright and vivid QM8 mini-LED QLED. TCL has been tearing things up in the TV world and has put out some legit contenders to heavy hitters LG, Samsung, and Sony, making many take a much closer look at the Chinese company for its high quality and much more reasonable price. With its price, features, and performance, everyone considering a new TV should look at the QM8 as it could possibly be the best TV that TCL has ever made.
As part of TCL's flagship newest Q class TVs, the 2023 QM8, as expected, runs on the Google TV OS (or else you wouldn't be here). But what we weren't expecting was the 2,500 nits of peak brightness in HDR mode that this TV measured out during our full review. This thing is blazingly bright, which means you won't have any problems watching it in a sun-drenched room. The black levels on the QM8 are impressive, too, and with Dolby Vision, IQ, HDR10+, HDR10, and HLG support, contrast performs well with excellent local dimming, and while it doesn't quite hit OLED's rich blacks in darker rooms, for the price and quality you may wonder why anyone would spend more for that tech. Our review also revealed some stunning and accurate color balance and brightness, too, even out of the box with no calibration.
Gamers will love the QM8, too, as two of its four HDMI inputs (two HDMI 2.1 and two HDMI 2.0) have support for 144Hz refresh rate and VRR (separate from the eARC port, too), as well as support for AMD FreeSync Premium Pro, and there's even a dedicated gaming mode.
Available in 65-, 75-, 85-, and 98-inch variants ranging in price from $1,200 to $10,000, additional features of the TCL QM8 include Dolby Atmos sound, support for Google Assistant, Alexa, Apple HomeKit, built-in Chromecast, AirPlay 2 and more.
More Zeke Jones/Digital Trends Sony Bravia X93L mini-LED Premium Sony without the premium price Excellent motion resolution Stellar color accuracy Bright, punchy HDR performance Solid black levels Some backlight blooming/halo Poor off-angle performance Sony is having a deja vu moment with its 2023 X93L mini-LED, but we're here to tell you that it's a good thing. On the one hand, it's the exact same TV as last year's X95K, which was the company's outstanding flagship mini-LED. On the other hand, it's gotten some modest software improvements and, most importantly, it's still a premium TV at a much more affordable price.
But even if you aren't familiar with the Bravia X95K (and who is, really?), all you need to know about the X93L mini-LED is that it's a powerful Google TV backed by Sony's Cognitive Processor XR, is colorful and bright, measuring an impressive 1,800 peak nits of brightness, has support for HDR10, HLG, and Dolby Vision, supports Dolby Atmos sound, and is a killer gaming TV with support for VRR, ALLM (auto low latency mode), and 4K/120Hz.
If you're a movie buff, there are some great presets, such as IMAX Enhanced mode and a Netflix calibrated mode, too, as well as what our reviewer called "stellar motion processing and low-resolution content upscaling," meaning fast-action movies will be smooth, and lower-resolution content will look better.
But what sets the X93L apart from the X95K are some software improvements. A new Eco Dashboard lets you better manage eco settings, and there are some new black level adjustments for seeing darker scenes better. A new gaming dashboard also allows more control over the VRR, letting you toggle between 60Hz and 120Hz.
Available in 65-, 75-, and 85-inch models, the X93L ranges in price from $2,200 to $4,400.
More Chris Hagan / Digital Trends TCL Q7 QLED A cheaper alternative to the QM8 High brightness Great contrast Vivid color Great for gaming White balance is just bad Color is technically inaccurate Inconsistent picture quality from streaming apps Continuing our tradition of spotlighting both a brand’s flagship Google TV and the runner-up, we have the amazing TCL Q7. Sitting just one rung below our favorite Google TV, the TCL QM8, the budget-friendly Q7 is available in 55, 65, 75, and 85-inch sizes. Two of the four HDMI ports are 2.1 inputs that can deliver 4K at up to 144Hz, as well as 1080p at up to 240Hz. Considering you’ll save a few bucks when going with the Q7 over the QM8, what exactly are you losing from one model to the other? First and foremost, the out-of-the-box picture quality isn't on par with the QM8. Now, if you’re not going to be using the Q7 for anything more than Netflix and Hulu once in a while, this may not be such a big deal. But if you’re going to be watching a lot of 4K HDR movies, doing a ton of next-gen gaming, and watching a fair amount of lower-res content, the Q7’s limited peak brightness levels and so-so picture upscaling will inevitably become more prevalent. With that being said, you may be wondering why this TV is in this roundup to begin with.
The simple answer is that this TCL QLED still delivers a bright enough picture for most folks, its contrast levels are pretty impressive, and the color accuracy is OK for the price. This is especially prevalent when viewing HDR content, where every hue feels rich and shines bright.
It’s not a perfect QLED, but the TCL Q7 is still a terrific Google TV with multiple size options, competitive pricing, and great gaming performance.
More Dan Baker / Digital Trends Sony Bravia XR A95K QD-OLED The best OLED Google TV Next-level color purity High color brightness Wide color gamut Perfect black levels Great sound Expensive This is the first consumer TV to offer QD-OLED technology, combining the better parts of Quantum Dot and OLED panels into a screen that can benefit from both with improved off-angle color and less risk of OLED issues like burn-in. The result is a TV we think will be one of the hottest models of 2022 and set a new standard for image quality going forward.
This 65-inch Bravia XR TV also works very well with Google TV, running the platform effortlessly. HDRO10 and Dolby Vision are both included to complement the 4K resolution, and gamers will be pleased to see the 120Hz refresh rate. There’s even an included Bravia cam that can be uncovered to make video chats and – potentially – optimize the TV for gesture controls and the most popular spots in your living room.
So yes, there’s a lot to be excited about for this QD-OLED upgrade, which also includes four HDMI ports and gaming features such as VRR (Variable Refresh Rate). But it’s not quite available yet, and when models start selling you’ll have to pay a lot to get one. New panel technologies often come at a high price, and this is a pertinent example.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Hisense 65-inch U8K The best Hisense TV Excellent brightness Vivid HDR colors Very good backlight control Excellent contrast Great for gaming Some color anomalies Scattered software bugs We’ve been unabashed fans of Hisense TVs for years now, and are happy to report that when it comes to flagship Google TVs, Hisense makes one of the best and most affordable QLEDs on the market right now. Holding the torch so proudly carried by the U8H before it, the 2023 Hisense U8K is a natural level-up of its predecessor — especially when it comes to picture quality.
When watching both HDR and SDR content, we were simply blown away by the astronomical brightness levels the U8K reached. We expect solid LED backlighting from a QLED, but the U8K’s peak brightness and color brightness were so exceptional that we had a hard time wrapping our heads around how inexpensive this model is. The most you’ll spend for the 65-inch model is right around $1,000, and it’s only a couple hundred more to jump to the 75-inch size! Compared to the U8H, Hisense’s latest flagship adds even more local dimming zones for some of the best-looking image processing we’ve seen from a non-premium brand. This isn’t to say the screen won’t show some light blooming during dark scenes, but that’s the exception rather than the rule. We’re also glad to see two of the four HDMI inputs getting the full-bandwidth 2.1 treatment, complete with 4K at up 144Hz (with compatible PCs). Console gamers will also love the return of Hisense’s Game Mode Pro, which gives you a dashboard of customizable gaming presets that can be modified in a pinch.
And of course, the U8K wouldn’t even be in this roundup if it wasn’t rocking the awesome Google TV OS. Although the UI could do with a couple of navigation tweaks, the platform’s web-connected elements make for one of the algorithmically strong streaming experiences you’ll ever have.
More Best Buy Hisense U7K mini-LED QLED The Hisense runner-up Powerful brightness Great colors Awesome UI Not as many local dimming zones as the U8K Only two of four HDMI are 2.1 ports Let’s drop down a rung from the top of the Hisense ladder. Living one tier below the unbelievable U8K is the Hisense U7K, another Google TV-powered QLED that delivers a vibrant and colorful picture when viewing HDR and SDR content. The U7K also delivers 4K at up to 120Hz across all four HDMI inputs, with two of the ports reaching 2.1 heights, amping that refresh rate up to 144Hz.
Comparing the U7K with the U8K can be a little tricky, because they’re both phenomenal QLEDs. Dig a little deeper though, and one will find that while the U7K has terrific local dimming capabilities and excellent peak brightness and color brightness levels, the U8K scores just a little bit higher in both picture categories. Believe it or not though, the U7K has a leg up on its older sibling when it comes to response time, making it a slightly better pick for console and PC gamers alike -- although we think most folks (including us) would be hard-pressed to find a difference in gaming performance between both models.
Available from 55 to 85 inches, the U7K runs the Google TV OS for all things smart and navigational. And compared to the higher-priced U8K, the web-connected experience is just as solid. It’s also great to kick back and fire off Google Assistant voice commands through your TV remote, allowing you to control smart home devices like lights, locks, and thermostats without leaving the couch.
Like other QLEDS at this price point, the U7K can be prone to some light bloom and haloing from time to time, but this phenomenon is mostly restricted to poorly lit scenes. We also understand if you’d rather spend a few extra dollars to get into true flagship territory with the U8K.
Dan Baker/Digital Trends Sony Bravia XR Z9J The best 8K Google TV Incredible brightness Excellent backlight control/black levels Spot-on color Superb motion Great sound Lacks high-end gaming features Very expensive Do you want to skip straight to the best feature set available on a Google TV-powered screen? This Sony Bravia model is where you should start. It’s one of the best TVs we’ve reviewed in recent years and comes packed with high-end, future-proof features including support for 8K content and massive 75-inch size to take advantage of it, a 120Hz refresh rate, and high brightness levels that enable the latest optimization technology like HDR10 and Dolby Vision. The local dimming and color are also some of the best we’ve ever seen on a standard LED TV.
This Bravia is also seriously smart: In addition to the Google TV platform, it supports voice commands via either Google Assistant or Alexa. Even the speakers are surprisingly good for built-in TV audio, so you don’t need to feel bad about not getting a soundbar quite yet.
The only major downside of this Bravia is that you’re paying a lot of money for features that haven’t all come into their own yet. There’s not much true 8K content available right now, although it is slowly coming. The TV also misses out on some of the advances being made with Mini-LED and other technologies , although it’s certain to be a winner for years to come.
Frequently Asked Questions Google is only partnering with some companies for its TV services and has only rolled out Google TV upgrades to some of those brands. Most Google TVs are Sony and TCL models at this time, with Hisense bringing the Google TV platform to its 2022 ULED TVs last year.
Note that this doesn't mean all Sony and TCL TVs will have Google TV. In fact, many TCL models are outfitted with Roku TV , so it's important to check when buying.
No. This is a smart TV platform that's free to use. However, if you download any services on it like HBO or Netflix, you will have to pay those subscription fees to stream from them.
Google actually brought Google TV to Chromecast first, and even called its latest model "Chromecast with Google TV" to clear up any confusion. However, Chromecast remains a separate dongle that you hook up to your TV, while Google TV can also be built into a TV itself.
Note that the Chromecast version of Google TV may be a bit different from other built-in versions in regards to layout and features offered.
Google TV is the updated version of Android TV with a new layout, more AI tech for recommendations, and a few other changes. For a more detailed explanation, check out our explainer on the differences between Google TV and Android TV.
Currently, Google is maintaining both Android TV and Google TV. But the goal is to phase out Android TV entirely. Some existing Android TVs will be updated to Google TV, but this isn't always possible, especially with older models.
Editors' Recommendations The best projectors for 2023: from 4K to ultra short throw Best bookshelf speakers 2023: from passive to powered and for every budget Best headphones for 2023: Sony, Bose, Apple, and more The best TV brands of 2023: from LG to TCL, which should you buy? The best subwoofers for 2023: from SVS, Klipsch, KEF, and more Android Best Products Audio / Video There are currently many ways for you to access all the shows and movies you want from all your favorite streaming services, be it Netflix, Max, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, or Disney+. For many people, using whatever is built into to your TV is just fine. That could be one of the more popular streaming platforms, like Roku, Amazon Fire TV, or Google TV. But there are plenty of reasons to use an external streaming device, too.
The major players in the streaming device game — Amazon Fire TV, Apple TV, Android TV, Google TV, Roku — are all fighting for your money, so we're here to make sure you throw it at the right streaming device for you and your budget. These devices typically range from as low as $30 to as high as $200.
Audio / Video If you’re a connoisseur of great picture quality, or you simply want your new TV to deliver rich colors and incredible contrast, you should be looking at OLEDs. For years now, LG has been the go-to manufacturer of OLED TVs and OLED displays, and even if you buy a Samsung or Sony OLED, chances are that the screen is actually made by LG Display (the company’s panel division). But what exactly makes an OLED so great, you may be asking? The biggest pro these sets have over QLEDs and traditional LEDs is that OLEDs don’t have LED backlights.
This is because an OLED (organic light-emitting diode) panel is made up of millions of self-emissive pixels that can individually be toggled on and off, which is how these TVs are able to achieve the kind of black levels that only plasma sets once rivaled. If you like what you’re reading so far, we have no doubt you’ll enjoy the best OLEDs of 2023 roundup we’ve compiled below. We’ve also had the honor of testing many of these TVs ourselves and have provided links to our full reviews when applicable.
Audio / Video Welcome to the latest generation of LED-backlit TVs. Some brands call it ULED, while others emphasize the “quantum dot” moniker, but there’s one umbrella acronym that effectively covers all these technologies and more: QLED. Quantum-dot LED TVs are some of the best LED sets ever produced, and they’re made by a number of different TV brands, including Samsung, Sony, Hisense, and TCL. Many models even use mini-LED lighting, which allows these TVs to achieve arresting peak brightness levels and amazing colors and contrast.
There are many different QLEDs on the market right now, so we thought we’d help you pick one out (and learn more about them) by creating this roundup of the best QLED TVs.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
