Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Guides Buying a TV wall mount? Read this first By Michael Bizzaco , Caleb Denison and Ryan Waniata Close Mounting a TV is a great way to free up space in your living room. If you’ve got kids who get touchy with electronics that they shouldn’t be putting their hands on, an out-of-reach TV will keep gooey prints off your new OLED screen.
 In terms of visual charm, mounting a TV is a staple of modern home decor. It’s aesthetically pleasing, especially with TVs getting thinner every year. Plus, they can go anywhere from a flat wall to a corner, and even above a fireplace (although we advise exercising caution when doing so).
What’s with your walls? Size, weight, and flexibility Where to buy Conclusion If you’re on the fence about mounting your new set , where it should go, and what mount you need, we’ve put together this guide on what to consider about your home before mounting, and what hardware you should be on the lookout for to get the job done right.
What’s with your walls? Image used with permission by copyright holder Almost all TV wall mounts are compatible with drywall and come with all the necessary hardware you need to install, including bolts and drywall anchors. If you are installing your wall mount on a plaster or masonry surface, you’ll need some stronger hardware that won’t come in the wall mount box. (Not sure what type of material your walls have? Check out this helpful guide.
) This may require a trip to the local home or hardware store to gather the necessary power tools and products. One other thought about location: We suggest you avoid mounting a TV over a fireplace if you can — check out this article for our thoughts on that controversial topic.
The best Amazon Fire TV device you should buy in 2023 Best Samsung TV deals: Save on QLED and OLED TVs Best 75-inch TV deals: Get a large screen for under $500 Just as most TV wall mounts are compatible with drywall, all TVs use a standard mounting pattern, called a VESA pattern. The name is an acronym for the Video Electronics Standards Association, the body that decided what that generic pattern is. Basically, it just means that whichever wall mount you choose, it will be easy to attach to your TV.
Size, weight, and flexibility Image used with permission by copyright holder When looking at wall mounts online, they will most likely be rated by the screen size of the TV they support and the weight they can hold, the latter of which is the most important factor. Different brands vary in weight even if the sizes of TVs are the same. If you are looking at a TV wall mount online, check the product description to see more information about the maximum weight and screen size it can handle. You can also find this info on the wall mount’s box.
The next thing to consider is the flexibility you want your TV to have while mounted. If you want to be able to see your TV from other rooms, a good option is a pivoting wall mount. This will let you change the direction the TV is facing to optimize the picture on the screen, even if you aren’t sitting right in front of the TV. If you are mounting your TV above the average eye level (42 inches), you’ll want to invest in a TV wall mount that tilts down to improve picture quality. Fortunately, most mounts can tilt and pivot.
If the TV can be positioned at the ideal height and you don’t need to access the TV ports on a regular basis, a fixed mount will simplify the installation and the TV will be close to the wall, taking up less space. Consider a slim mount if this is the case for a more elegant overall appearance. Many tout how close they can hang to the wall.
If you are mounting your TV in the corner, you will most likely need a specially designed corner mount. A fully articulating mount is necessary to secure the mounting plate to the wall and keep the TV extended at all times.
One final consideration is a universal TV base. Combining the best of both worlds (table-top and wall mounting), these universal bases come with VESA-certified mounting arms and a bracket to hang them from. The bracket itself is normally height-adjustable, and many models will even allow you to tilt and swivel your TV from side to side.
Where to buy You can find TV wall mounts (and wall mounting accessories) at pretty much every major big-box retailer, including Walmart, Target , Best Buy, and Home Depot.
 Amazon also has hundreds of wall mounting brands to choose from, with options for every mount style and TV size. In terms of cost-efficiency, you may have better luck securing a deal online. The markup on in-store wall mounts tends to be rather high for most major retailers. If you’re shopping at Best Buy and find a mount that you really like, check to see if it’s available on Amazon for a few dollars less, as most stores will be willing to price match for you.
Conclusion To sum up, when selecting your TV wall mount, make sure you keep in mind the mount style you will need and pay special attention to the amount of weight the mount can hold. If you need help installing your new TV wall mount, check out our how-to guide to mounting a TV.
 Once you have the wall mount installed and the TV hooked up, all you need to do is sit back, relax, and enjoy your favorite show or movie.
This video tutorial features the Cheetah Mounts APTMM2B, the VideoSecu ML531BE, and the Mounting Dream MD2380.
Editors' Recommendations Best TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 and more Best 70-inch TV deals: Get a big screen for sports for $450 Best 65-inch TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 FuboTV: channels, price, plans, packages, and add-ons Best Prime Day TV deals: 4K TVs, 8K TVs, QLED TVs, and OLED TVs Buying Guides Buying Guides Audio / Video Thanks to a host of exclusive content, and an intuitive and user-friendly streaming experience, Apple TV is both one of the best digital streaming platforms to use -- via Apple TV+ -- and one of the best streaming media players to own. And if you want to integrate your home theater into your suite of Apple devices, the Apple TV is the only way to go. These small, sleek boxes allow you to easily access movies, shows, and much more, including massively popular Apple TV+ shows with notables like Silo and Severance. However, like many Apple products, they are very desirable and often go out of stock. It's rare to find them on sale, but we've hunted down the best Apple deals to save you money on a new Apple TV.
2012 Apple TV (3rd Gen) 8GB (Refurbished) — $34, was $99 If the past decade has flown by too quickly and you want to get back to simpler times, you should check out the Apple TV's 2012 version. This refurbished edition is rated as being in "excellent" condition by the supplier, has a 1-year warranty, and is 65% lower than the brand new pricing. This Apple TV uses the Apple A5 chip, which was the same one used in the first gen of the Apple Mini. Our, now years-old. Apple TV 2012 review praised it for its unobtrusive design, a compliment which still stands to this day.
Audio / Video Best Buy already has an exclusive on ultra-affordable smart TVs powered by the Xumo TV streaming platform and manufactured by Hisense, and now it plans to add additional Xumo TV models from Pioneer. The Pioneer Xumo TVs will be available in-store and online in November, in sizes ranging from 43- to 65-inches in size and from $270 to $500 in price.
Like the Hisense Xumo TVs, the Pioneer models will be loaded with the Xumo TV software that acts as both a smart TV platform, with support for a variety of apps, as well as the TV's default streaming service, Xumo Play. The latter is a free ad-supported streaming TV (FAST) service with hundreds of ad-supported linear channels and on demand options.
Audio / Video Mini-LED and QLED are two TV tech acronyms that have more in common than one might expect. They're technically both types of LED lighting, but the former is one type of LED lighting, while the latter is what you get when you combine the TV's LED backlighting with a layer of quantum (that's where the "Q" comes from) dots. If we're starting to confuse you, our sincere apologies, but do bear with us.
Let's take a closer look at both mini-LED and QLED tech, starting with the most important element: the LEDs.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
