Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Guides What is a smart TV? Everything you need to know By Michael Bizzaco , Josh Levenson and Derek Malcolm Close Smart TVs are everywhere. In fact, you’d be hard-pressed to find a TV on a store shelf these days that doesn’t do clever things like play movies and TV shows from the latest streaming services while you ask it to do so with (gasp!) your voice through an intelligent voice assistant. Widgets and apps open up possibilities like gaming, weather, video calling, and smart home features that would make your old TV fear for the curb.
What makes a TV smart? What can I do with a smart TV? Smart TV operating systems Voice search Privacy of user data Alternatives But what makes a TV smart, and why should you care? Is it as simple as an internet connection and an operating system? If it’s just a more direct route to streamers like Netflix and Disney+, then is that better or worse than my trusty Apple TV or Roku set-top box? Who makes smart TVs, and does it matter which I choose? We decided to weigh in on the matter.
Samsung What makes a TV smart? Your old TV was a loner, isolated from the world beyond its antenna, cable box, or A/V source like a DVD player for all its content needs. The major feature separating smart TVs and not-so-smart TVs is an internet connection, which opens it to a world of possibilities. Nearly all modern smart TVs come equipped with either an Ethernet port , built-in Wi-Fi, or both, and with the latest sets being powered by a range of sophisticated and powerful operating systems, processors, and software, current TVs are more like smartphones or computers than ever.
What can I do with a smart TV? Watch TV While today’s TVs are indeed smart, the primary use for a smart TV is still, you know, watching TV. But the way that’s done now is vastly different from the past. With the rise to prominence of streaming services such as Netflix, Hulu, HBO Max, Amazon Prime Video, Disney+, and Apple TV+, most of our movies and shows are streamed over the internet to our TVs either through set-top boxes or streaming sticks , like the Apple TV, Roku Ultra, and Amazon Fire TV Stick. However, over the years, most smart TVs made by everyone from Samsung, LG, and Sony to TCL, Hisense, and Vizio now come with these streaming service apps built right in. There are some advantages to this, including the fact that you don’t have to shell out for a separate device, and there’s no need for additional HDMI and power cables, network connections, or setups — the TV setup process is streamlined and simplified.
YouTube TV still leads after latest round of streaming numbers What is DirecTV Stream: plans, pricing, channels, and more Netflix free trial: Can you stream for free in 2023? However, it’s worth considering that unlike smartphones or computers (and even set-top boxes), TVs don’t focus as much on processing power, meaning that even with regular software and firmware updates, over time your TV will get slower, laggy in its navigation, and show a decline in performance as image and audio quality continues to improve. Your TV’s processor can’t be replaced or upgraded, but an aging set-top box or streaming stick can. Both options have their advantages, and many people use a combination of the two.
Smart home, voice assistants, and more For many, the TV is a central meeting point for the home — we arrange our furniture around them and mount them on the wall as a focal point of the decor. But they’ve never been as functional as they are today, beyond just staring at them for entertainment. With today’s smart TVs, you can do all sorts of things, like controlling and accessing all your smart home devices such as lights, robot vacuums, security cameras, and thermostats; streaming music and podcasts; making video calls for work (with some TVs from Sony, TCL, and Amazon offering support for Google Duo and even Zoom); working out (with apps such as Peloton installed); and more.
Most smart TVs also come with Google Assistant or Alexa smart assistants built-in, allowing you to control much of this with your voice (more on that below). Add to that the ability to cast apps and content from smartphones and tablets, mirroring their screens to a smart TV, and the possibilities are kind of endless.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Smart TV operating systems Even though all smart TVs are built with the same goal in mind — helping you access your favorite content without a middleman (in this case, a set-top box or streaming stick ) — they don’t all work the same way. In general, each manufacturer uses a different operating system with its own individual features and quirks, with two of the biggest being LG’s WebOS and Samsung’s Tizen, which are nimble, smart, and offer all kinds of features in and of themselves. Most TV makers, including Samsung, LG, TCL, Hisense, and Sony, however, also offer their TVs in models that run well-known operating systems like Roku , Android TV , and its successor, Google TV , built-in. These operating systems allow for a broad range of functionality and features, as well as compatibility with devices such as smartphones, and provide access to a wider range of apps and content. Which is the best TV operating system is up to you to decide.
Voice search For the most part, smart TV interfaces are designed to be simple and easy enough for anyone to use without training or tutorials (after all, lots of people check out display TVs before buying). Still, sometimes you just don’t want to hunt and peck — and that’s where voice search comes in.
As a fairly common feature in newer smart TV remotes, voice search turns navigation into an easy, one-click task, no matter what you’re looking for. But be aware that certain platforms — like Roku — offer more robust search tools than others, and remote microphones aren’t always great at understanding your voice, so patience is important.
But what kind of commands can they handle? Here’s a brief look: “Play the latest episode of Lucifer on Netflix.” “Open Amazon Prime Video.” “Switch over to HDMI 3.” “Mute the volume.” “Turn off after this episode of Friends.
” Some higher-end models come with Amazon Alexa or Google Assistant built-in, which offer access to a much larger knowledge database. Using one of them, you’ll not only be able to tell the television what to do but also to search the internet for answers to questions and scour through your connected accounts for contextual information, such as calendar events.
If your TV doesn’t come with a voice remote in the box, you may also be able to access voice search via a smartphone app or by hooking up an Amazon Echo or Google Home.
Privacy of user data A good rule of thumb with all web-connected devices is that any user data you enter is always somewhat at risk. Smart TVs are no exception. When subscribing and buying, we recommend keeping your purchases within your TV’s app store. TV web browsers are generally clunky tools that hackers can easily manipulate. If you need to buy treats off Amazon, relegate the transaction to your home computer or phone.
Alternatives Not all smart TVs are created equal. Perhaps the TV you like doesn’t have the best operating system, or maybe you just don’t have the cash to pony up hundreds for a shiny new screen. If that sounds all too true, set-top boxes and streaming sticks are great alternatives that offer nearly all the functionality of a high-end smart TV at an affordable price. Roku’s products (such as the Streaming Stick 4K ) do a great job of turning existing dumb TVs into smart ones, as do Google’s Chromecasts and Amazon’s Fire TV devices.
 New models of these devices are always being churned out, and their operating systems frequently get updates that add new features. Plus, they’re relatively inexpensive, making them an appealing alternative.
Editors' Recommendations ESPN+: Live sports and more you can’t get anywhere else DirecTV Stream raises pricing across all its tiers Peacock TV free trial: Can you stream for free Sling TV adds live scores and more for sports fans ESPN+ Free Trial: Can you sign up for free in 2023? Samsung Streaming Services TV Audio / Video When it comes to Amazon Fire TV and picking out which is the one you should get, it really comes down to one question. It’s not exactly a simple one, though.
What, exactly, do you need? Audio / Video Apple TV+ isn't the newcomer to streaming it once was when it launched in 2019. In fact, Apple TV+ has made quite the name for itself, raking in Emmys and Oscars for its top-notch original movies and TV shows. Its subscription numbers have risen steadily over the years, and it's established itself as a desirable streaming service in and among the Netflixes and Amazon Prime Videos of the world.
But one of the best things about Apple TV+s remains its relatively low price compared to more expensive options like Netflix and Hulu. Just how much is Apple TV+, and how can you save even more on your subscription cost? Read on to find out.
How much is Apple TV+? Audio / Video Since its launch in November of 2019, Apple TV+ has elbowed its way on to the playing field of streaming services from Netflix and Amazon Prime Video to Disney+, Max, Hulu, and a plethora of others to become, for many, a go-to option for movies, TV series, and sports. Since then the ad-free service has amassed an estimated 25 million subscribers globally, with many more than that reportedly cashing in on the company's penchant for free promotional subscriptions after you buy a new Apple device like an iPhone or MacBook.
What sets Apple TV+ apart from the rest of the herd is that it's the only service that offers exclusively original content and only its own original content; meaning no seasons of Rick and Morty or Friends licensed from their respective networks and no blockbuster flicks from other studios, but you can get those elsewhere. This may or may not be a bad thing, as so far Apple has done a pretty good job at making some of the most compelling original content out there, including award-winning series such as Ted Lasso, The Morning Show, and Severance to some of the best sci-fi series around, like Silo and Invasion, as well as live sports from Major League Baseball and Major League Soccer.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
