Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? What is Android TV? Google’s smart TV platform fully explained By Michael Bizzaco , Simon Cohen and Derek Malcolm Close When it comes to smart TVs, these monolithic QLEDs and OLEDs require an internet connection to get you connected to services like Netflix and Disney+. But like any good computer or mobile phone, there’s an operating system taking care of apps, navigation, and all things user interface-oriented behind the scenes. For Samsung TVs, this OS is called Tizen, for LG TVs, it’s webOS, and for brands like Sony, TCL, and Hisense, it used to be called Android TV, but now (for the most part) it’s called Google TV.
An important note on Android TV and Google TV What is Android TV? How do I get Android TV? How do I set up and use Android TV? What are some Android TV voice commands? What are some popular Android TV apps? Is Android TV the same on every device or TV? While Google TV is really just an evolutionary leap based on the building blocks of Android TV, you’ll still see the Android TV moniker on a modern TV or two. Many modern home theater projectors also use the Android TV OS. That being said, it’s a platform that’s still relevant. Here’s everything you need to know about Android TV.
An important note on Android TV and Google TV Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends In 2021, Google began rolling out a large update to the Android TV platform. This update included many changes, a new interface, and a new name — Google TV.
 Google TV is designed to be more personalized than Android TV, with Google’s A.I. capabilities working behind the scenes to find recommended content. The layout has also changed to become easier to quickly navigate and more versatile for a variety of activities. However, it’s no longer called Android TV.
FuboTV: channels, price, plans, packages, and add-ons Best streaming devices for 2023: Apple TV, Roku, and more How to figure out what size TV you should buy Some older devices that were using Android TV can be updated to adopt some of the Google TV features and the new interface, along with the new name. If you’ve personally updated your device and found that references to Android TV have vanished, this is probably why.
Note that the capabilities and most of the actual platform remain the same as Android TV. Google TV just includes some new technology and a new look to make the most of the latest features. Your Google Account connection, etc., will function the same way.
All that said, there are still a few newer TVs that use the Android TV platform, so the information we’ve gathered below is still accurate and relevant.
What is Android TV? Walmart Android TV — as you may have guessed from the name — is a version of Google’s Android mobile operating system that has been specially configured for TVs and other devices such as projectors.
 But that description doesn’t really convey how different Android TV is from Android.
Android TV focuses on helping you discover the content you can enjoy on your TV, whether it’s through one of your subscription services like Netflix, Max, or Amazon Prime Video, or from your own personal media collection via media center software like Plex.
Because of that focus, Android TV looks very different from Android. Instead of being greeted by a screen full of apps or widgets like search, weather, or stocks, your device’s media apps are displayed as “ribbons” — a horizontally scrolling set of recommendations and recently viewed content from within a particular app.
The Netflix app, for instance, will show you a ribbon of thumbnails from your in-progress, watch next, and recommended shows and movies.
Android TV can access the Google Play app store, where you’ll find thousands of apps that have been designed specifically for Android TV’s 10-foot experience, which means you won’t be struggling to read tiny text or trying to navigate apps that only work when you can swipe with a finger.
Embedded within every version of Android TV is the Google Assistant , which gives you voice control for your TV content, as well as all of your smart home products. Google’s Chromecast technology is also included, letting you cast videos and initiate screen sharing from compatible smartphones, browsers, and apps.
Much like the Roku OS , Amazon’s Fire TV OS, or Apple’s tvOS , Android TV supports a wide variety of TV features, like 4K UltraHD , HDR , and Dolby Atmos.
 Whether you can take advantage of these features will depend on the device that has Android TV installed. The hardware (and your chosen app) must support these features before Android TV lets you use them.
How do I get Android TV? Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends Android TV, until recently, came pre-installed as the default smart TV user experience on select TVs from TCL, Sony, Hisense, Sharp, Philips, and more. You can also add Android TV to any existing TV that has an HDMI port, with an Android TV set-top box from companies like Nvidia and Xiaomi.
Amazon’s Fire TV is often listed as an Android TV device, but don’t be fooled. Amazon used the open-source version of the Android OS to create its Fire TV OS, but it has very little in common with Google’s Android TV.
Similarly, beware of so-called Android TV boxes from brands you don’t recognize. There are tons of these on Amazon and sites like GearBest but they aren’t true Android TV devices. Instead, they use the non-TV version of Android and ship without voice remotes. For an updated list of all official Android TV devices , check out Google’s product page.
You may be wondering why Google itself doesn’t sell an Android TV device. The company did take a crack at it with the now-defunct Nexus Player device, but since its demise in 2016, there was a hole in Google’s Android TV presence that its Chromecast devices didn’t fill. And while Google never did rectify this with its Chromecast devices, in 2020 they did finally release the Chromecast with Google TV , a Chromecast with an included remote — albeit, with the new Google TV interface, not Android TV.
How do I set up and use Android TV? Nvidia.com / Google While it’s possible to use basic Android TV features without a Google account, if you want to download additional apps or use the Google Assistant, a Google account is required. You’ll be asked to enter your Google account when you first set up your Android TV device. If you already own another Android device like a phone or tablet, you can use it to speed up the setup process.
You’ll be asked to choose a Wi-Fi network (if you don’t have an Ethernet connection) and answer a few questions about locations and preferences — some of which will vary by device type. At the end of the short process, you’ll arrive at the Android TV home screen.
Android TV devices, whether they’re projectors, TVs, or external set-top boxes, come with voice-capable remote controls. Once you turn the device on and the home page displays on your screen, you can navigate around the interface using the remote’s directional and enter buttons. A Back button lets you return to a previous screen or menu, while the Home button returns you to the home screen. The top ribbon always shows your list of installed apps, for quick access, with a link to the Google Play Store so you can go get more apps at any time.
But to get the most out of Android TV’s features, you’ll want to summon Google Assistant. Depending on your device, you might be able to call out, “Hey, Google,” for a hands-free experience, but you can always use the Mic button on the remote. When you do, there’s no need to preface your commands with “Hey, Google,” because as soon as you press the button, it’s listening for instructions.
What are some Android TV voice commands? To a certain extent, what you can ask Android TV to do via Google Assistant will depend on which streaming services you have access to. For instance, “Play Stranger Things on Netflix,” will only work if you have a Netflix subscription; however, plenty of commands are universal, such as: “Play some jazz music.” “Play,” “pause,” “stop,” and “resume” while watching any video.
“Louder” and “softer” for volume control.
“Open [app name]” to open any installed app.
“Show me the cast of Friends.
” “Tell me about The Witcher.
“ In addition, you can use any of Google Assistant’s smart home commands, which vary based on which smart home devices you have on your home network.
What are some popular Android TV apps? Google Needless to say, Netflix is just about the most popular app on every streaming media platform, and Android TV is no exception. You’ll find most of the other major streaming services too, but there are occasional compatibility issues. The Amazon Prime Video app, for instance, works just fine, but at the moment it doesn’t show up as its own ribbon with recommended or continue watching options.
There are also plenty of other lesser-known apps worth installing. Here are a few choices to get you started: Hulu + Live TV For years, Hulu refused to update its Android TV app. This meant that the live TV option was simply unavailable to Android TV users. That finally changed in 2019 , and now Hulu + Live TV joins Sling and YouTube TV as one of the many great options cord-cutters can enjoy on Android TV.
Kodi Kodi is a powerful media center app that can find and organize all of your personal media into an easy-to-navigate interface, with support for just about every media file type you can think of. Highly customizable, Kodi has a reputation as an app that will let you stream Hollywood movies for free, but be warned: This kind of activity on Kodi is not officially supported and is a legal gray area, to say the least. We recommend checking out our full Kodi explainer before you find yourself on the receiving end of a cease-and-desist order.
Plex Image used with permission by copyright holder Similar to Kodi, Plex uses a client/server arrangement to let you view and play your personal media files and much more. It’s a far more powerful and enjoyable way of experiencing your movies, music, and photos than simply sticking a USB drive in the back of your set-top box or TV. We’ve got a full guide to using Plex that will help you get the most out of it, whether you use it on Android TV or the dozens of other devices it supports.
AirScreen Android TV already supports screen mirroring from Android devices via Chromecast, but iOS users need a solution, too. That’s where AirScreen comes in. Fire it up and your Android TV will show up as a selectable AirPlay device in the iOS Control Center. That’s all there is to it.
Puffin TV Browser Surprisingly, given that Google is the driving force behind Chrome, one of the most popular web browsers on the planet, Android TV does not come with a built-in browser of any kind.
Puffin TV is one of many apps on the Google Play Store that seeks to address this obvious omission, and it does so with an interface that is ideal for TV. Stripped of all but the essential functions, it’s a good way to quickly jump on the web for the occasional task that Google Assistant just can’t handle.
Games There are tons of games for Android TV — too many to list here. Big titles like Asphalt 8: Airborne , Zen Pinball , Crossy Road , Grand Theft Auto , Final Fantasy , and many more are available through the Google Play Store.
Sideloading apps If you can’t find what you want in the Google Play Store, Android TV has another way of adding apps called sideloading. Though not as convenient as shopping for and installing apps via Google Play, sideloading is sometimes the only way to add hard-to-find apps.
Keep in mind, however, that sideloaded apps are not verified independently by Google for things like malware. There can also be compatibility issues, especially if the app in question wasn’t designed for Android TV.
Is Android TV the same on every device or TV? Image used with permission by copyright holder Just like no two computers running Windows are exactly alike, there are some differences from one Android TV to another. On a Sony TV, for instance, you’ll find picture calibration settings like Sony’s proprietary Reality Creation image processing. You’ll also see the option for watching live, over-the-air HDTV channels using the TV’s built-in tuner.
Android TV devices from cable or satellite operators like AT&T are usually customized to place an emphasis on their broadcast and on-demand content.
On the Nvidia Shield TV, you’ll have access to Nvidia’s GeForce Now gaming store, because that particular Android TV device is intended to double as a powerful gaming platform. As we mentioned above, all this is also true of Google TV — while the platform has gotten a new look, that specific look still varies between brands and devices. Generally speaking, the most “complete” experience can be found on Google’s own Chromecast.
You may also find that due to differences in processing power, not every Android TV device will be equally responsive. Early Sony TVs with Android TV felt somewhat sluggish as their underpowered chips struggled to render the interface and respond to menu choices. New Sony TVs are much improved, and the Nvidia Shield TV remains the gold standard for speedy Android TV performance — Nvidia Shield most recently updated to the newer Android 11 , so there are some added new features there as well.
The different processing powers aren’t likely to affect the device’s ability to stream content from someplace like Netflix. However, it will make a difference in apps like Plex and Kodi, as they require the device’s processor to render various media files. This difference may also impact some games.
One more difference you should keep an eye out for is whether you have 4K, HDR, and Dolby Atmos support. The Xiaomi Mi Box S, for example, can handle outputs in both 4K and HDR, but it doesn’t support any advanced surround sound formats.
Editors' Recommendations What is Apple TV+? Pricing, features, how to get it, and more The best Google TVs of 2023: from TCL, Sony, and Hisense Best Apple TV deals: Get the streaming device from just $34 What is Google TV? Here’s everything you need to know Google TV vs. Roku TV: which is the better streaming OS? Android Apple Apple TV Cord Cutting 101 Google Google Chrome Google Nest Audio / Video Google announced today that all Android TV and Google TV devices in the U.S. are getting more than 25 new free channels, baked right into the operating systems' Live tabs. That brings the total number of built-in FAST channels to more than 100, meaning that you'll be able to watch all kinds of free content without having to download a single thing. It's all built in.
FAST channels refer to free, ad-supported television and can be individual shows or entire channels of content. Google didn't immediately name the 25-plus channels, but said they include the BBC and Lionsgate. (You can see a big list of them here.) And that's on top of the others that were added in the spring, which brings a ridiculous 800 or so channels (more or less) to the platform. Whether they have what you want to watch? That's completely up to you. But it's free.
Audio / Video Vizio has made a name as a fantastic low-budget TV brand. As they've gotten more popular, they've come out with some nicer models and explored technology like QLED and OLED panels. We've summarized the most popular Vizio Series below, and listed all of the sizes in each category that are currently on sale. These Vizio TV deals come from several different retailers. We've scoured the web for deals so you don't have to.
Vizio D-Series -- starting at $130 If you need a small TV for your bedroom, dorm room or kitchen, a cheap Vizio is a classic option. The D-Series are smaller form TVs with fairly basic functions, and price tags to match. They aren't 4K, just 1080p, but since they are small it isn't usually obvious. They have standard LED displays that are direct lit, meaning they don't have local dimming options. They do run at 60Hz, so gaming and sports will look smooth. They also have smart capabilities, so you can stream from most apps straight to the TV.
24-inch -- $130, was $140: Audio / Video With so many different apps, services, and streaming platforms out there, it can be overwhelming trying to figure out which ones are right for you. And navigating YouTube's latest suite of products presents a similar issue. The Google-run video-hosting website, launched in 2005, is massively popular, with more than 400 hours of video uploaded every minute. But lately, the service's many expansions in the search for more revenue have made things a bit convoluted.
In the past few years, we've seen the launch of YouTube Music, YouTube TV, the now-defunct YouTube Go, and the one you've probably heard about most lately, YouTube Premium. If you're wondering what exactly that means, read on as we explain what YouTube Premium is, how much it costs, and whether it's right for you.
What is YouTube Premium? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
