Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Guides Products What is Dolby Vision? The dynamic HDR format fully explained By Simon Cohen Close Of all the new TV technologies to emerge over the last few years, it’s arguable that none has had as big an impact on overall picture quality as High Dynamic Range , or HDR. When properly implemented, HDR makes everything pop, while enhancing details and improving color. We think it has been more impactful than the move from Full HD (1080p) to 4K Ultra HD or even 8K resolution.
What is HDR? So what’s so special about Dolby Vision? What about HDR10+? Which TVs support Dolby Vision? What else do I need for Dolby Vision? What about Dolby Vision IQ? But not all HDR is created equal; in fact, HDR is a catch-all term that refers to several distinct and competing technologies. The one with the biggest brand recognition is Dolby Vision. Dolby Labs has done such a good job of marketing Dolby Vision as its own platform, many consumers aren’t even aware that it’s an HDR format. That shouldn’t be a surprise: TVs that have Dolby Vision technology are often labeled as “4K HDR TV with Dolby Vision,” making it seem as though the two terms aren’t related.
Adding fuel to the Dolby Vision fire is that the HDR format is now available in several smartphones including select models of Apple’s super-popular iPhone — it was introduced on the iPhone 12 Pro and iPhone 12 Pro Max.
 But what is Dolby Vision? How is it different than other HDR formats? And more importantly, how can you get it at home? We have all the answers right here.
Vimeo adds Dolby Vision support, but only for Apple devices What is HDR10+ Adaptive? The HDR calibration system fully explained Free on Apple TV: Pearl Jam’s new album is now a Dolby Vision/Atmos experience What is HDR? Jacob Roach / Digital Trends Before we get into Dolby Vision specifically, let’s quickly recap HDR in general. High Dynamic Range is a technology that lets filmmakers and content creators produce videos with increased brightness, greater color accuracy, and better contrast than what was previously possible. While HDR is often utilized in high-quality theaters, it has also become increasingly popular for home viewing. When HDR content is viewed on a quality HDR-compatible TV, you can tell right away — the increase in overall picture quality is dramatic, offering a touch of cinematic quality on the small screen.
There are five major HDR formats to discuss for home use: Two static formats and three dynamic ones. The two static formats are HDR10, the version that every HDR-capable TV supports, and HLG, a version designed for broadcast applications. Static in this case means that the data required to show HDR content is determined once based on the entire movie or TV show. Once the video starts to play, that information doesn’t change.
The three dynamic formats include Advanced HDR by Technicolor, and two much more commonly known formats for the home: HDR10+ , a license-free format developed in part by Samsung, and Dolby Vision.
 Unlike static formats, dynamic formats can adapt as you watch, boosting or reducing HDR elements based on each scene, down to a frame-by-frame level of detail. It takes way more data to do HDR this way, but experts agree: Being able to fine-tune color, contrast, and brightness for each scene can have a big impact on HDR quality.
So what’s so special about Dolby Vision? Image used with permission by copyright holder As touched on above, Dolby Vision is a proprietary, dynamic HDR format developed by Dolby Labs. Adjusting the picture on a scene-by-scene (and even frame-by-frame) basis, lets you see more detail with better color accuracy. It is constantly making adjustments so that each image on the screen is optimized. But there’s more to it than that.
In addition to the ability for content creators to tweak picture settings at a highly granular level, Dolby Vision supports a much wider range of possible settings than the more conventional (and static) HDR10. For instance, HDR10 supports a maximum picture brightness of 1,000 nits for TVs. Dolby Vision can go much brighter — up to 10,000 nits.
The same is true for color accuracy. HDR10 lets content creators specify color using 10 bits of data , whereas Dolby Vision supports up to 12 bits. That spec might not seem like a big deal — by the numbers, that’s only a difference of 2 bits — but it makes a huge difference. With 10 bits, you can pick from 1,024 shades of each primary color, which gives you over a billion total possible colors. Again, that sounds huge until you realize that 12 bits give you 4,096 shades and a total of over 68 billion colors.
If that sounds like overkill, when it comes to your TV, it is. For the moment, there are no TVs you can buy that are capable of displaying 10,000 nits of brightness or the 68 billion colors that Dolby Vision provides. Even the brightest TVs on the market tend to max out at 3,000 nits of brightness, and not even LG’s newest flagship OLED TV offers better than 10-bit color support. That said, TV technology is advancing very rapidly so Dolby Vision’s current above-and-beyond specs may seem perfectly reasonable in another five years.
What about HDR10+? The Samsung-backed HDR10+ format is similar to Dolby Vision in that it’s also a dynamic format that can optimize on-screen images on a scene-by-scene basis. It has support for higher brightness and color depth than the HDR10, but it doesn’t quite go as far as Dolby Vision in its specifications. In theory, this means that you’ll get better results with Dolby Vision, but for now, the biggest difference between the two standards is availability.
Few devices currently support HDR10+ and even fewer sources of content are available in HDR10+, though this is beginning to change.
In time, thanks to the free licensing of the HDR10+ standard, we could see the tables turn. If you’re wondering about future support for these competing formats, here’s something to keep in mind: Any device that currently supports Dolby Vision ought to be able to support HDR10+ too, via a firmware upgrade. Moreover, there would be little cost to manufacturers that chose to do this. The same is not true for Dolby Vision, which adds a licensing cost in addition to the cost of developing the firmware itself.
Which TVs support Dolby Vision? Image used with permission by copyright holder While Dolby Vision is more prominent than HDR10+, not all new TVs are Dolby Vision-compatible. One prominent brand that does not support it is Samsung, which is all-in on HDR10+.
Major brands that offer Dolby Vision include LG, TCL, Vizio, and Sony , but Dolby Vision support can vary from model to model. Before you buy, make sure to read the full specs for the model you’re considering. If it works with Dolby Vision it will likely say so and usually quite prominently.
What else do I need for Dolby Vision? A source of Dolby Vision video Image used with permission by copyright holder In addition to having a Dolby Vision-compatible TV or another device, you’ll need a source of Dolby Vision video. Lots of 4K Ultra HD Blu-rays support Dolby Vision, and video streaming services like Netflix and Amazon Prime Video offer a good selection of both Hollywood movies and original series in the format.
Disney+ and Apple TV+ both have deep support for Dolby Vision as well as Dolby Atmos — the company’s popular surround-sound audio format.
With Dolby Vision video capture capable on the new iPhones, users will be able to capture their own Dolby Vision HDR video content and display it on a compatible TV with Dolby Vision, though it isn’t yet clear just how good the Dolby Vision content captured on these phones will look since it is graded by AI rather than a human.
Dolby Vision can even be found in TV broadcasts in very select circumstances. Both the 2022 World Cup Soccer event and the 2023 Super Bowl were offered in Dolby Vision to Comcast’s cable customers. Typically, when broadcast TV is offered in HDR, it’s for sports events, and it’s usually done using either HDR10 or HLG due to the lower bandwidth requirements of these HDR formats.
A Dolby Vision-capable device Digital Trends If you use a set-top box, game console, or Blu-ray player for your streaming video content, it also needs to be Dolby Vision-compatible — not all of them are. Roku streaming devices like the Roku Streaming Stick+ , for instance, only support HDR10. By contrast, some Roku TVs, like those made by TCL , do support Dolby Vision. The Apple TV 4K supports Dolby Vision, but the Apple TV HD doesn’t.
Amazon’s 4K Fire TV Stick is one of the few devices that supports all four of the top HDR formats: HDR10, HLG, HDR10+, and Dolby Vision. The most recent Roku Ultra streaming box also supports Dolby Vision as does the Chromecast with Google TV.
Nvidia’s older Shield TV streamers don’t support it, but the 2019 Nvidia Shield TV and Shield TV Pro do. Microsoft’s Xbox One S and One X have supported Dolby Vision since 2018 , but you won’t find it on the basic Xbox One. Only Sony’s PlayStation 5 supports Dolby Vision, but in a limited way: it only works for games and only when it’s connected to a compatible Sony Bravia TV. Again, it pays to do your research.
Finally, if your chosen Dolby Vision device requires an HDMI cable (instead of the dongle-style that plugs directly into a TV) make sure you buy an HDMI cable that is guaranteed to be compatible with Dolby Vision.
 Any cable that bears the “HDMI Premium Certified” label is ideal. Cables that are rated for lesser speeds may work but be prepared in the event that they don’t. The good news is that you can buy Premium Certified HDMI cables for less than the price of an IMAX movie ticket.
A few gotchas ‘House of the Dragon’ scene on a TCL 6-Series, in HDR10 from an Xbox Series X on the left, and in Dolby Vision from the HBO Max Roku app on the right Riley Young Sometimes, even when you do everything right, things still don’t work as planned. We have found instances where even if you have a Dolby Vision source, playback device, and TV, you still don’t get Dolby Vision. One recent example comes from Disney+ where some viewers were surprised to learn that despite having a fully compatible setup, they still weren’t getting Dolby Vision on their Xbox consoles.
 The reason? The Xbox Disney+ app doesn’t yet support Dolby Vision even though many titles on the service are labeled Dolby Vision.
Another issue you may have heard about also relates to Dolby Vision and Disney+. Some experts have taken issue with how The Mandalorian — an exclusive Disney+ streaming show presented in Dolby Vision — looks.
They say it looks too dark , and that even the brightest on-screen moments aren’t as bright as they expect from a Dolby Vision title. Are they right? The answer is both yes and no. While The Mandalorian appears dark, it’s not Dolby Vision’s fault or Disney+’s handling of Dolby Vision. To imbue the scenes with a somber tone, the show’s creator chose during production to scale back on the brightness that’s possible with Dolby Vision. Remember, a creator can choose how each scene looks using Dolby Vision, so while HDR10 might look brighter sometimes (see the House of the Dragon example above), brighter may not be what the creator had in mind.
What about Dolby Vision IQ? Image used with permission by copyright holder In 2020, Dolby presented its video technology Dolby Vision IQ , which is essentially an upgrade to Dolby Vision. The software uses light sensors built into Dolby Vision IQ-enabled TVs to dynamically adjust Dolby vision content for optimal viewing. This feature makes Dolby Vision incredibly dynamic. It senses the ambient light level in your room and changes the additional color and contrast info. It also reevaluates and readjusts on a scene-by-scene basis to suit your viewing conditions.
Most manufacturers (still no Samsung) now support Dolby Vision on their best TVs, including LG, Panasonic, Hisense, and TCL. Curiously, Sony does not support Dolby Vision IQ despite the fact that its TVs have Dolby Vision. However, some Sony models use a proprietary Sony-developed system that performs a similar set of adjustments.
Now you know all you need about Dolby Vision. Check back often, as we’ll update this article as new changes, equipment, and support become available.
Editors' Recommendations What is HDR TV? High dynamic range and why you need it Dolby Vision vs. HDR10 vs. HDR10+: Which HDR format is the best? Wonder Woman 1984 will mark HBO Max’s 4K HDR debut Google Play sides with team Samsung in the HDR format war Hisense R8 ULED Roku TVs deliver 4K and Dolby Vision on a budget LG Audio / Video When Disney was ramping up the hype machine for its Disney+ streaming service, one of the biggest benefits it touted was the availability of both Dolby Vision and Dolby Atmos on a significant chunk of its banner content. Movies like the Star Wars franchise, which would be presented in 4K HDR for the first time, and shows like the Disney+ original The Mandalorian were also supposed to get the full Dolby treatment.
And this all rings true, too, if you're subscribed to the Disney Bundle. That's the mechanism that gets you Disney+, ESPN+ and Hulu for just $14 a month. And Disney's been pushing it extremely hard, for good reason. It's a great deal.
Audio / Video Electronics manufacturers are beginning to see soundbars as the next category of device that should come with built-in smarts. The latest brand to pursue this strategy is Anker, which has just started taking pre-orders for its $230 Nebula Soundbar -- Fire TV Edition, a soundbar that delivers 100 watts of power while enabling any HDMI-equipped TV with Amazon's Fire TV streaming media software and its Alexa voice assistant.
On the video side of things, the Nebula Sounbdar impresses, with 4K resolution at up to 60 frames per second, and every major flavor of HDR including HDR10, HDR10+, and Dolby Vision. In fact, this may just be the first soundbar you can buy with Dolby Vision built-in. Around the back of the soundbar, you'll find a good array of connection ports including an auxiliary-in, USB, HDMI-ARC, and optical input.
Audio / Video When it comes to packing the latest technology into an affordable TV, few brands can compete with TCL. That reputation gains even more traction now that the company has opened up pre-orders for its 4K HDR QLED 8-Series Roku TVs. Available in both 65-inch ($2,000) and 75-inch ($3,000) sizes, these models are currently a Best Buy exclusive. Deliveries will happen by mid-November according to Best Buy.
The 8-Series list of features reads like a glossary of the latest audio and video standards. It's Dolby Vision-compatible for a truly outstanding HDR display and it also supports Dolby Atmos sound for an equally immersive audio experience. As a Roku TV, it benefits from the simplicity of the operating systems and a huge variety of streaming services.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
