Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: What is Roku? Best Roku TVs How to Pair a Roku Remote The Roku Channel How to Use AirPlay on Roku Best Roku Devices Star Button on Roku Remote Home Audio / Video Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? What is Google TV? Here’s everything you need to know By Michael Bizzaco , Amanda Blain and Tyler Lacoma Close Much like our smartphones, tablets and computers, our smart TVs and streaming devices are powered by cutting-edge operating systems that control everything from the look and feel of your device’s menus and navigation to more unique features. That inlcudes what kind of content (apps and games) your TV will support and whether or not you’ll be able to “cast” photos and videos to your new OLED using your iPhone or Android device. Every web-connected A/V peripheral has some kind of OS working behind the scenes, and the one we’ll be focusing on today is called Google TV.
What is Google TV? How does Google TV work? Games on Google TV What are some Google TV voice commands? Is Google TV right for me? Google TV goes toe-to-toe with other OS platforms, including Apple’s tvOS, Amazon’s Fire TV, and Roku’s titular OS. Is it better than the rest? Let’s unpack Google’s foray into TV smartness to find out! Further reading The best Google TVs of 2022 Is Google TV replacing Android TV? Google TV vs Roku TV What is Google TV? Sony At its core, Google TV is a user interface running on top of Android TV , but with a different look and feel than the original platform. It is preinstalled on many different smart TVs from brands like Sony, TCL, and Hisense, as well as on the Chromecast with Google TV and the O.G. Chromecast.
Should you install beta updates for Apple TV 4K? NFL Sunday Ticket in 2023: Everything you need to know What is Android TV? Google’s smart TV platform fully explained Google TV’s focus is to ensure users can access their most-viewed and recommended content directly from the home screen. Like other streaming device platforms, Google TV features Netflix , Apple TV Plus , Hulu , and more. However, Google TV lets you access what you want to watch without diving directly into the specific streaming app as long as you are logged in to your Google account. An algorithmic wunderkind, Google TV also keeps tabs on the apps you’re subscribed to and the movies and shows you like watching. This allows the platform to recommend content for you to enjoy, which is housed under an awesome Home Screen tab called “For You.” Thanks to Google Assistant integrations, you’ll also be able to use your smart TV (and Assistant-enabled remote control) to search for apps, movies, shows, and games using voice commands. Google TV can also be linked to your Google Home account, allowing you to control certain smart home devices with Google Assistant through your TV.
Google Nest cameras will also connect to the interface so that Nest camera owners can view their camera feeds via their TVs.
How does Google TV work? Digital Trends Whether you purchase a Google TV-enabled TV or Chromecast with Google TV , the experience is pretty similar. All Google TV-enabled devices need an internet connection. Some devices will give the option of using an Ethernet cable for a hard-wired connection, but they all work with Wi-Fi, too. Setting up Google TV is pretty simple. You can download the Google Home app on your mobile device for the fastest experience, but you can also do it directly from the TV or streaming device. Furthermore, having a Gmail account makes this experience seamless.
After the initial setup, you will be presented with the Google TV home screen. The home screen features a slide show of various movies and TV shows that are recommended based on viewing preferences (that For You tab). It may also include advertisements for the latest movie releases. Below that is the Top Picks for You column, which is another recommended list of content, followed by Your Apps.
The platform includes a Highlights tab as well to collect a personalized hub of entertainment info, generally news and reviews about important or upcoming titles that Google thinks you will like.
Google TV uses Knowledge Graph and machine learning to boost the discoverability of content aimed at the viewer. Google’s Knowledge Graph is the company’s collection of facts about people, places, and things. This allows Google to answer or present users with accurate information about movies, TV shows, historical facts, and more. The interface is divided into multiple tabs allowing users to browse movies, shows, apps, and purchased content.
Google TV’s focus is to ensure that users never have to venture into apps to watch their preferred content. With just a click of a button, jumping back into Marvel Studio’s Moon Knight on Disney+ is a seamless experience, and it can be done directly from the home screen of Google TV without opening Disney+ itself.
Parental controls are also built into the interface, allowing parents to create separate profiles for their kids. Kid profiles are tied to the parent’s account, so they do not have their email and password to worry about. There is also a Google Family Link app to set guidelines for their kids’ experience with Google apps and devices. For example, Google TV’s parental controls let parents set screen time, lock and unlock profiles, and set rating limits.
Games on Google TV There are a lot of games available for Google TV. You will find titles like Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories , Final Fantasy , Oceanhorn , and more. Unlike Android TV, Google TV has so deeply integrated the Play Store that you don’t just go to an app — searching for some games has to be done through voice or word search.
Here’s another gaming pro, specifically for Google TV-powered smart TVs. Many of these sets include a number of today’s best gaming features for a TV, including support for things like NVIDIA GeForce, AMD FreeSync, and VRR. While these features have less of an impact on Google TV’s internal gaming, those of us rocking next-gen consoles like the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S will be the real beneficiaries of these awesome gaming features and HDMI standards.
What are some Google TV voice commands? Google What you ask the Google Assistant is predicated on the apps that you are logged in to. For instance, “Play Master Chef on Hulu,” will only work if you have a Hulu subscription. However, Google TV does offer universal commands, such as: “Play some R&B music.” “Open [app name].” “Tell me about Chef Ramsay” gives a detailed description of the person as well as content from various streaming services that they appear in.
Is Google TV right for me? Google TV is an excellent alternative to Fire TV, tvOS and Roku OS. And if you’re already intertwined with the Google ecosystem, using Google TV interface will feel right at home. In addition, having a Google Assistant on your smart TV helps make your TV browsing experience more seamless and intuitive.
Editors' Recommendations What is Apple TV+? Pricing, features, how to get it, and more Best streaming devices for 2023: Apple TV, Roku, and more YouTube TV in 4K: Everything you need to know How to figure out what size TV you should buy Google TV vs. Roku TV: which is the better streaming OS? Apple Apple TV Cord Cutting 101 Google Chrome Roku TV Audio / Video Roku TV is a smart TV platform and user interface that can be found on Roku’s first-party streaming devices and compatible QLED and LED TVs. Our focus today is on the latter, and fortunately some pretty awesome brands have signed their souls away to the Big R. As it stands, TCL is the kingpin of Roku-powered TVs, but depending on where you’re shopping, you’ll also be able to find some other noteworthy companies to grab a Roku TV from. These are mostly budget-friendly names like Hisense, Westinghouse and Roku themselves, but “budget-friendly” doesn’t translate to “low quality.” In fact, some of these Roku TVs are pretty dang great when it comes to things like HDR performance.
If you're looking for a sale, take a look at some of the best TV deals.
Audio / Video Google announced today that all Android TV and Google TV devices in the U.S. are getting more than 25 new free channels, baked right into the operating systems' Live tabs. That brings the total number of built-in FAST channels to more than 100, meaning that you'll be able to watch all kinds of free content without having to download a single thing. It's all built in.
FAST channels refer to free, ad-supported television and can be individual shows or entire channels of content. Google didn't immediately name the 25-plus channels, but said they include the BBC and Lionsgate. (You can see a big list of them here.) And that's on top of the others that were added in the spring, which brings a ridiculous 800 or so channels (more or less) to the platform. Whether they have what you want to watch? That's completely up to you. But it's free.
Audio / Video It's a jungle of music streaming platforms out there, so it stands to reason that Amazon would have one among its massive kingdom of services. And while Amazon Music might not be top of mind among the Spotifys and Apple Musics of the world, you might be surprised by its 100-million-song library, high-resolution and spatial audio offerings, podcast library, Alexa voice control, and a pretty amiable user interface that makes finding music pretty easy.
Amazon Music's subscriptions range from free to its premium Music Unlimited tier, which can be added for $9 per month on top of a subscription to Amazon Prime. However, Amazon recently announced that, as of September 19, this price is going up to $10 per month (more on this below). But they all come with some quirks and features. We're going to break them all down for you to help you choose which, if any, Amazon Music plan is right for you.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
