Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Guides What is HDR10+? Everything you need to know about the new HDR format By Simon Cohen and Adam Poltrack Close The way we see things has changed a lot since the days of rabbit-ear antenna televisions. It’s safe to say we have a clearer vision of the future, and it seems that with every new year comes a new resolution. With these ever-expanding pixel counts, it can be hard to keep up — but not to worry: Not only do these sharper resolutions heighten your future viewing experience, but the costs also tend to come back down to earth once a new standard is set.
What is HDR? What is HDR10+? So … what about Dolby Vision? Oh no, not another format war! What equipment do I need to get HDR10+? High-dynamic range, more commonly referred to as HDR, is one of the most important new video technologies since the upgrade from standard definition to HD. But HDR comes in many flavors. You’ve probably heard terms like Dolby Vision, HDR10, HLG, or more recently, HDR10+. But what exactly is HDR10+? How can you get it? And perhaps most importantly, is it the best HDR format? We’re glad you asked! Below, we’ll shed some much-needed light on all of these questions and more.
What is HDR? Before we can dive into HDR10+, we need to make sure we understand HDR. We’ve got a few fantastic deep dives on this technology that you can peruse at your leisure, but for the sake of a quick introduction, high-dynamic range as it pertains to TVs allows for video and still images with much greater brightness, contrast, and better color accuracy than what was possible in the past. HDR works for movies, TV shows, and video games. Unlike increases in resolution (like 720p to 1080p), which aren’t always immediately noticeable — especially when viewed from a distance — great HDR material is eye-catching from the moment you see it.
What is HDR TV? High dynamic range and why you need it 4K TV buying guide: Everything you need to know 8K TV: Everything you need to know about television’s future HDR requires two things at a minimum: A TV that is HDR-capable and a source of HDR video, like a 4K HDR Blu-ray disc and compatible Blu-ray player , or an HDR movie on Netflix.
 Confused consumers often conflate 4K and HDR, but they are very different technologies; not all 4K TVs can handle HDR, and some do it much better than others. That said, most new TVs support both 4K UHD and HDR.
But saying “HDR” is like saying “digital music”: There are several different types of HDR, and each has its own strengths and weaknesses.
What is HDR10? Every TV that is HDR-capable is compatible with HDR10. It’s the minimum specification. The HDR10 format allows for a maximum brightness of 1,000 nits (a measure of brightness), and a color depth of 10 bits. On their own, those numbers don’t mean much, but in context they do: Compared to regular SDR (standard dynamic range), HDR10 allows for an image that is over twice as bright, with a corresponding increase in contrast (the difference between the blackest blacks and the whitest whites), and a color palette that has one billion shades, as opposed to the measly 16 million of SDR.
As with all HDR formats, how well HDR10 is implemented depends upon the quality of the TV on which you view it. When utilized properly, HDR10 makes video content look really good, but it is no longer the top of the HDR food chain.
Joel Chokkattu/Digital Trends What is HDR10+? As the name suggests, HDR10+ takes all of the good parts of HDR10 and improves upon them. It quadruples the maximum brightness to 4,000 nits, which thereby increases contrast too. But the biggest difference is in how HDR10+ handles information. With HDR10, the “metadata” that is fed by the content source is static, which means there’s one set of values established for a whole piece of content, like an entire movie. HDR10+ makes this metadata dynamic, allowing it to change for each frame of video. This means every frame is treated to its own set of colors, brightness, and contrast parameters, making for a much more realistic-looking image. Areas of the screen that might have been oversaturated under HDR10 will display their full details with HDR10+. But wait, there’s more — Samsung, long a proponent of HDR10+, has kicked things up yet another notch.
The company’s HDR10+ Adaptive technology allows your TV to detect the brightness of your viewing space and make micro adjustments to the brightness, contrast, etc., in response to changes in the room.
The catch here is that, despite being a royalty-free format, HDR10+ was developed by a consortium of three companies — 20th Century Fox, Panasonic, and Samsung. As such, HDR10+ compatibility has so far been limited to TV models by Samsung and Panasonic. And here’s catch number two: On the content side of the equation, there isn’t a lot of support for HDR10+, though that’s changing slowly but surely.
Amazon Prime Video supports the tech, while Netflix and many other streamers have yet to adopt it. In April 2019, Universal made a commitment to release both new and back-catalog titles in HDR10+, but 20th Century Fox, once set to do the same, now looks to be cozying up to Dolby Vision. Many industry insiders saw this coming, as the company is owned by Disney, which has embraced Dolby Vision with open arms.
Image used with permission by copyright holder So … what about Dolby Vision? HDR10+ isn’t the only HDR format with ambitions of becoming the next king of the HDR castle. Dolby Vision is an advanced HDR format created by Dolby Labs, the same organization behind the famous collection of Dolby audio technologies like Dolby Digital and Dolby Atmos.
 Dolby Vision is very similar to HDR10+ in that it uses dynamic, not static, metadata, giving each frame its own unique HDR treatment. But Dolby Vision provides for even greater brightness (up to 10,000 nits) and more colors, too (12-bit depth, for a staggering 68 billion colors).
For now, these specs are a bit moot: There are no 12-bit-depth-capable TVs yet, and brightness of that caliber remains the stuff of prototypes.
 But both are certainly coming in the years ahead, and Dolby Vision is ready and waiting. Unlike HDR10+, which only had its official launch in 2018 and has so far seen limited uptake by both content and hardware companies, Dolby Vision has been around for several years and enjoys wide industry support, which could help make it the HDR standard.
Part of the reason Dolby Vision is less abundant than HDR10 is the fact that it’s a proprietary technology, and companies that wish to implement it in content or hardware must pay a licensing fee to do so. HDR10+, like its predecessor HDR10, is open source and royalty free, which could cause its adoption rate to explode in the coming years, especially among budget-friendly TV manufacturers.
Oh no, not another format war! Does the presence of competing HDR formats like HDR10+ and Dolby Vision mean we’re in for another format war? Not exactly. Unlike previous tech tiffs like Blu-ray versus HD-DVD, HDR formats are not mutually exclusive. This means there’s nothing stopping a movie studio from releasing a Blu-ray that contains HDR10, HDR10+, and Dolby Vision metadata on a single disc.
A TV that supports HDR can support multiple HDR formats, and many of today’s TVs do just that. The most common combo is HDR10 and Dolby Vision support on a single TV; however, we’re also just beginning to see the arrival of TVs that add HDR10+ and even HLG (the version of HDR favored by digital TV broadcasters) to that mix. It’s also possible that some TVs that shipped from the factory with support for just two formats — say HDR10 and Dolby Vision — could be updated via a firmware upgrade to handle HDR10+.
Blu-ray players and media streamers can also support multiple HDR formats. The challenge is that, despite the ability to support multiple HDR formats, very few TVs, playback hardware devices, streaming video services, or Blu-rays actually do. This means that, as consumers, we need to pay close attention to the labels to understand the capabilities of the devices and content we own — and the ones we plan on buying.
Many Blu-ray players, for instance, only offer support for HDR10, while some newer ones, like Sony’s UBP-X800M2, add Dolby Vision support. The same considerations apply to set-top streaming boxes. At the moment, there only three streaming devices that can handle HDR10, HDR10+, and Dolby Vision: Chromecast with Google TV , Amazon’s Fire TV Cube , and the Fire TV Stick 4K — not surprising given that Amazon’s Prime Video service also supports all three formats. Others, like Apple’s Apple TV 4K, support HDR10 and Dolby Vision but not HDR10+.
What equipment do I need to get HDR10+? To summarize, HDR10+ is a new format of HDR that offers higher levels of brightness and contrast plus more true-to-life colors and detail. To get it, you’ll need: A source of HDR10+ video, such as a Blu-ray movie or Amazon Prime Video (with more to follow) A device that is capable of reading HDR10+ encoded material, like a compatible Blu-ray player or media streamer A TV that is HDR10+ compatible (these may also have built-in apps that let you sidestep the need for a playback device) One more thing: If you’re using a media streamer or a Blu-ray player for your HDR10+ content and it does not plug directly into your TV, the HDMI cable that you’re using should ideally be compatible with HDMI 2.1.
 The reason is that HDR10+ (and Dolby Vision) use far more data bandwidth than conventional HDR10, and older HDMI 2.0 cables may not be able to support that extra demand.
So that’s that! Whether you’re looking to upgrade your home theater system or you just want to understand this cool tech, that’s really all you need to know. Stay tuned for updates! Editors' Recommendations What is YouTube Music? Everything you need to know What is Dolby Vision? The dynamic HDR format fully explained ATSC 3.0: Everything you need to know about broadcast TV’s next big thing What is 4K? Everything you need to know about 4K Ultra HD What is HDMI 2.0b? Here’s everything you need to know Audio / Video High Dynamic Range (HDR) technology has become an important term to consider when purchasing a new TV or streaming TV shows and movies because HDR technology makes content more vibrant and brighter.
While there are five different HDR formats, we're going to focus on the top three in terms of widespread availability: HDR10, Dolby Vision, and HDR10+. Each one of these formats brings something different to the table and could enhance your viewing experiences dramatically. This guide will show you the difference between the formats and how these differences might affect your buying decision regarding a new TV or streaming device.
What is HDR? Audio / Video Welcome to the vast world of TV acronyms! Let’s look at two very common terms that you will frequently run across when shopping for a new display: UHD and HDR. Yes, these terms both have “HD” in them, but how are they related? Which matters most when buying? Do you need them both? Let’s go over the common questions about UHD vs. HDR, and everything you should know! What does UHD mean? UHD stands for Ultra High Definition, a label for how many pixels a display has. This is in contrast to the older term FHD, or Full High Definition, which you may also know as 1080p (while HD is typically the lower-res 720p), referring to a pixel count of 1920 x 1080 pixels.
Audio / Video In the closing days of 2020, Samsung announced that its new TVs for 2021 -- which were introduced a few days later at CES 2021 -- will include a technology called HDR10+ Adaptive. If it sounds familiar, that's likely because it's built on top of HDR10+, a high dynamic range (HDR) format that Samsung has been championing for several years. But there's more to HDR10+ Adaptive than HDR, so let's dig into all of the details.
First, a quick primer on HDR as a technology. Though there are several competing HDR formats -- something that is creating increasing confusion for buyers -- they all strive for the same goal, which is to make movies and shows look way better through increased brightness, increased colors, and increased image accuracy. When all of the necessary ingredients come together, it can look stunning.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
