Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Guides What is HLG HDR, and do you need it in your new TV? Curious about HLG HDR? Here's everything you need to know By Kris Wouk Close Image used with permission by copyright holder If you’ve been shopping for a TV recently, you’ve probably noticed that nearly any TV larger than 40 inches offers 4K Ultra HD resolution — that’s almost a given. But what about High Dynamic Range (HDR), the cool, new thing when it comes to TVs? It offers up darker blacks, brighter highlights, and generally richer, more vivid color. But unlike 4K, which is a standard resolution you can easily measure, there are multiple different kinds of HDR, and you don’t always get access to all of them with a given TV. The TV you get might support HDR10, but not Dolby Vision, for example.
What is Hybrid Log Gamma? How is HLG different? How can I see HLG in action? The latest format you’re probably beginning to hear about Hybrid Log Gamma ( HLG ). Why do we need yet another HDR standard? As we’ll explore in this article, HLG offers a more flexible approach than other standards, and it is the HDR format of choice for broadcast media.
What is Hybrid Log Gamma? Hybrid Log Gamma aims to solve two problems that exist with other HDR technologies. First, existing HDR solutions like Dolby Vision and HDR10 aren’t suitable for broadcast signals, for reasons we’ll explain later. Second, no other existing HDR technologies are easily backward compatible, meaning that not only are owners of older TVs out of luck, but content needs to be produced in both HDR and non- HDR varieties.
What is Apple TV+? Pricing, features, how to get it, and more How to figure out what size TV you should buy The best HDMI cables you can buy in 2023 History Hybrid Log Gamma began in 2014 as a collaboration between the BBC and Japanese broadcaster NHK, which is no stranger to pushing new broadcast technologies.
 Both were intent on creating a new broadcast-friendly HDR solution. Looking to avoid the same sort of troubles that we saw in the early days of HDTV, when some networks would have SD and HD versions on different channels, the two broadcasters were looking to create a more all-in-one solution.
How is HLG different? In order to show something in HDR , your TV needs to know how to display the signal. Both HDR 10 and Dolby Vision use metadata to tell your TV how to display colors and assign brightness parameters. The problem, at least from a backward-compatibility standpoint, is that older TVs and modern TVs that don’t support HDR don’t see this metadata and wouldn’t know what to do with it if they did.
Solving the compatibility problem HLG takes a different approach. Instead of starting with an HDR signal, HLG begins with a standard dynamic range (SDR) signal that any TV can use. The extra information for HDR rendering is added on, so an HDR TV that knows to look for this information can use it to display a broader range of colors and a wider range of brightness. To get a little more technical, HLG uses the same gamma curve that an SDR signal uses but adds a logarithmic curve with extra brightness over the top of the signal, hence the “log” and “gamma” in Hybrid Log Gamma.
This is what makes HLG especially well-suited for broadcast. Early on, the BBC and NHK decided against using a metadata-based approach, since metadata could be lost, or in the case of Dolby Vision , which uses a more complicated approach, out of sync with the image on screen, causing colors to display incorrectly. The ability to display on any TV — theoretically even your old non-HD TV — is another bonus for broadcast.
Advantages & disadvantages There are a few more advantages to HLG aside from its compatibility. While other HDR solutions can require an extensive overhaul of the production workflow when it comes to the people making the shows and movies you watch, HLG allows studios to use most of their existing equipment, with only a few changes.
Since HLG doesn’t use metadata, it can also dynamically alter colors based on your environment, though how much of a difference this could really make literally remains to be seen. Since there is more color information in the signal, regardless of the TV displaying it, this also could make for better color reproduction even on SDR displays, though this advantage is mostly theoretical at this point.
Not everything about HLG is perfect. Due to the way HLG handles low light, it can’t enhance darker parts of an image the way that HDR10 or Dolby Vision can. Basically, HLG can make images brighter and more vivid, but the blacks remain the same as an SDR image.
There is also one issue with compatibility. Despite being backward-compatible with SDR TVs, it actually isn’t compatible with non- HLG HDR TVs. This can be fixed via firmware updates, but if your TV doesn’t support HLG out of the box and the manufacturer doesn’t issue an update, you’re out of luck.
How can I see HLG in action? If you’re in a hurry to start watching HDR content, you’ll want to look elsewhere, as HLG is still in its relative infancy. Because of this, the video actually using HLG is currently scarce. Support for the standard does seem to be on the way from quite a few of the major players in the industry.
Who’s on board? Obviously, the BBC and NHK are moving forward with support for HLG.
 In the case of the BBC, the technology is already in use in the BBC iPlayer. For the time being, the U.K. seems to be leading the HLG charge, at least when it comes to broadcasters, with British BT and Sky UK indicating planned support for HLG in the future.
When it comes to hardware and software, the number of companies supporting the standard grows significantly. Both Samsung and Sony support HLG in their newer TVs, with many models dating back to 2016 able to add support via a firmware update.
Panasonic’s 4K OLED TVs , recent offerings from Hisense , and LG TVs like the impressive C7 support HLG as well. Sony also offers HLG support on some of its newer projectors, as does JVC. Even more impressive, Samsung’s mammoth 85-inch Q900 8K TV also supports the technology.
HLG seems to be picking up steam, with more and more products released with out-of-the-box support, so expect to see it more often moving forward.
Finally, major support for HLG has come from Google. Not only does the company’s Android TV platform offer support for HLG starting with version 7.0, but it also already offers support for HLG as one of the HDR options for YouTube.
Where’s the content? For the time being, you’re going to have a tough time finding HLG content to watch anywhere. While the technology is used in the BBC iPlayer and can be used for HDR videos on YouTube, the presence of technologies that have already been adopted like Dolby Vision or HDR10 means that most content providers aren’t jumping up and down to support another one.
As mentioned above, some major players have announced plans to use HLG , and 2018 could be the year that we begin to see them rolling out support. Widespread mainstream support could be further off, considering that major TV providers are only just starting to roll out the occasional 4K Ultra HD content. After years of 4K TVs being available, we’re finally starting to see providers like DirecTV ramp up 4K content availabilit y, but the generally slow pace could be an indicator of how long we may have to wait for HLG — or any HDR technology — to be widely used in broadcasts.
Will Hybrid Log Gamma become the HDR standard moving forward? It’s too early to say. What we can say for now is that if you’re interested in watching broadcast TV in HDR , you might want to make sure that your TV supports HLG or can in the future. In the meantime, if you want to know more about this subject as a whole, check our guide to all things HDR.
Editors' Recommendations The best Amazon Fire TV device you should buy in 2023 YouTube TV in 4K: Everything you need to know What is PHOLED? Your eyes (and your utility bill) are going to love it What is HDR TV? High dynamic range and why you need it YouTube TV: plans, pricing, channels, how to cancel, and more LG TV Audio / Video Of all the new TV technologies to emerge over the last few years, it's arguable that none has had as big an impact on overall picture quality as High Dynamic Range, or HDR. When properly implemented, HDR makes everything pop, while enhancing details and improving color. We think it has been more impactful than the move from Full HD (1080p) to 4K Ultra HD or even 8K resolution.
But not all HDR is created equal; in fact, HDR is a catch-all term that refers to several distinct and competing technologies. The one with the biggest brand recognition is Dolby Vision. Dolby Labs has done such a good job of marketing Dolby Vision as its own platform, many consumers aren't even aware that it's an HDR format. That shouldn't be a surprise: TVs that have Dolby Vision technology are often labeled as "4K HDR TV with Dolby Vision," making it seem as though the two terms aren't related.
Audio / Video Apple today announced a new version of Apple TV 4K. It's the third generation of what we consider to be the best streaming device you can buy, and Apple's not really messing with things too much. Same general design. Same general function. But the internals have been tweaked that allow this 2022 model (which follows the models released in September 2017 and May 2021) to work better with more TVs — and to allow for a little more flexibility in price.
Here are the big deals: There are now two versions of Apple TV 4K (or SKUs, for those of you who prefer inside-baseball terms). There's a model that's Wi-Fi only with 64GB of storage for $130, or a model with Wi-Fi and Ethernet with 128GB of storage for $150. For our money, we'd just go ahead and spend the extra $20.
Audio / Video We've already taken a look at what we hope to see from Amazon at its fall event — scheduled virtually for September 28. It's Amazon, so undoubtedly there will be a ton of smart home-type stuff at the ready.
But what about Amazon Fire TV? Are there new sticks on the horizon? Maybe a new Fire TV Cube? Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
