Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Guides What is the Soap Opera Effect? How to disable motion smoothing on your TV By Michael Bizzaco and Derek Malcolm Close So, you just got a brand new TV , it's all set up and mounted, and you've just fired it up to have your mind blown with that excellent new-TV image. But something looks weird. Everything's hyperrealistic, almost like you're watching a home video or a bad soap opera. Don't panic, though.
What is the Soap Opera Effect? The benefits of motion smoothing How to disable motion smoothing and fix Soap Opera Effect Difficulty Duration What You Need An LED-LCD TV TV remote What you're looking at is a common feature that many TV manufacturers have been building into TVs since around the time that 4K TVs came onto the scene. What you’re seeing goes by a few different names, included motion smoothing, motion compensation, or video interpolation, but is more commonly known as the Soap Opera Effect. The good news is, it’s easy to fix, and doing so can help you enjoy your favorite movies and TV shows as they were meant to be seen..
What is the Soap Opera Effect? From the way people talk about it, you might think the Soap Opera Effect is a bug, but it’s actually a purpose-built feature found in many modern TVs. It goes by many names, as we’ll detail later, but we know the technology behind it as video interpolation, or more commonly, motion smoothing. A feature deliberately added to most modern TVs, it arose to solve a problem, not create one.
Unlike old CRT and plasma TVs, many modern TVs such as LED, LCD, OLED, and QLED displays have problems with motion blurring. Some are more sensitive to it than others, but when an TV has to display fast motion — quick-moving sports or video games, for example — the blur can be excessive, obscuring image detail. To help combat this problem, TV manufacturers started using displays with higher refresh rates, moving from the native 60Hz refresh rate used in older TVs to more modern 120Hz to 240Hz panels.
Since most sources of video — including broadcast and streaming — don’t stream at this frame rate, however, motion smoothing came along to “fake” a higher frame rate by inserting images in between the actual 30 or 60 frames per second that come from your cable box, game console, or antenna. It creates these new images when your TV analyzes the picture and digitally guesses at what new images it could insert. They even use this frame guessing game on some OLED and QLED TVs.
Motion smoothing works fine for sports programming and video games because of their methods of content recording and/or producing, but we’re used to seeing lower frame rates in many TV shows and movies, most of which are recorded at 24 frames per second. Therefore, people were unnerved watching The Hobbit at 48 frames per second as opposed to the 24 fps we’ve been seeing from film reels for decades and mimicked by digital cameras and projectors later on. Many people who saw the film thought it looked unnatural and frequently commented that it looked too real.
Sound familiar? Also, showing 24-fps content with frame interpolation for 120Hz displays messes with the cadence, as the display is adding frames that never existed. It is literally fake and removes the judder between frames we expect to see. That’s why it can be so annoying. That said, motion smoothing is not always a bad thing.
The benefits of motion smoothing As mentioned above, motion smoothing can be great for sports and video games, as it leads to smoother-looking action. Even if the Soap Opera Effect bothers you (some people are more sensitive to it than others), you may well find it preferable for sports.
Motion smoothing doesn’t perturb everyone, and some people even like it for watching TV shows, depending on how they’re shot. There are even some people, rare though they may be, who prefer watching movies with motion smoothing turned on. Finally, there are people who notice nothing amiss. If you’re reading this article and wondering why you’ve never seen this so-called Soap Opera Effect, you may be one of them, and that’s OK too.
If you don’t notice motion smoothing, or if you prefer it, then there’s no harm in leaving it on. Motion smoothing doesn’t damage your eyes or anything like that (as much as those who hate it might believe otherwise). If you can’t stand it, here’s how to turn it off.
Zeke Jones/Digital Trends How to disable motion smoothing and fix Soap Opera Effect In virtually all cases, all you need to do is adjust one setting on your TV and the Soap Opera Effect will vanish. The hardest part is finding that exact setting on your TV -- as it goes by several names — and ensuring it’s disabled for all sources.
Every TV manufacturer seems to use its own term for motion smoothing. LG calls it TruMotion, Samsung calls it Auto Motion Plus, Sony calls it MotionFlow, TCL calls it Action Smoothing, and Vzio's is named Smooth Motion Effect. Outside of a few edge cases, the setting for your TV probably has the word “motion” somewhere in the name. One notable exception is Hisense, which calls its motion smoothing UltraSMR.
It’s this wild-west naming problem that is at the core of most people’s confusion around the Soap Opera Effect, and how to disable it. It’s such a common problem, the UHD Alliance proposed that all TV manufacturers add a button to their remote controls called “Filmmaker Mode." Pressing it would instantly disable all forms of motion smoothing regardless of what the TV manufacturer calls it or how hidden that setting may be.
Companies like Vizio, LG, Samsung, and Panasonic have committed to adding Filmmaker Mode to their TVs. In fact, since 2020, LG TVs have Filmmaker Mode embedded in the coding for Amazon Prime Video , ensuring the motion filter is disabled while watching Prime Video movies and shows.
But until Filmmaker Mode exists across the board, however, read on to find out how to find motion smoothing on your TV and turn it off.
Step 1: Motion smoothing is likely under the picture settings, but exactly where it’s located is going to change from manufacturer to manufacturer. You might even have a button that performs the equivalent of Filmmaker Mode on your remote, but with the general trend of simplifying TV remotes, this likely won’t be the case if you have a newer TV.
Step 2: To find motion smoothing, navigate to the Settings menu and find the Picture settings sub-menu. Most of the time, it will list motion smoothing toward the bottom, after you’ve passed more traditional settings like Brightness, Contrast, and Sharpness. Sometimes, you may have to go into a separate section, sometimes called Advanced Picture Settings or something similar.
How to mirror your smartphone or tablet on your TV How to install an HD antenna for free TV How to use Netflix’s secret category codes to find what you want to watch Step 3: Certain TVs automatically turn on motion smoothing for set picture modes, like Sports or Vivid picture, but don’t enable it for the Cinema setting. This can make things easier, but if you’re the type that likes to adjust your own TV settings for the best picture for your environment, you must hunt down the option and turn it off.
Step 4: Furthermore, if you’re using the onboard apps in a smart TV, your adjusted picture setting may not apply to streaming content on apps like Netflix or Hulu.
 If this happens, you’ll have to completely turn off the setting while you’re streaming through the app. Sometimes, you may find a Global option for all settings adjustments, which we recommend, as it should apply any settings you make across all sources.
Step 5: Samsung, LG, and Sony are three of the biggest TV brands on the market. That being said, we've gone ahead and put together step-by-step instructions for disabling whatever motion smoothing feature is built into these sets and a few more.
Samsung: Grab your TV remote and press the Menu or Settings button. Select Picture > Expert Settings > Auto Motion Plus.
 Then, select Auto Motion Plus and toggle the setting off.
LG: Press the Home button on your TV remote. Select Picture Mode > Picture Options , then switch TruMotion from the smooth setting to off.
Sony: Press the Settings button on your TV remote. Then, go to Picture Settings > Advanced Settings.
 Next, go to the Motion Settings and turn Motionflow off.
TCL: On your TCL remote, press the * button and navigate to picture options.
 Scroll down to find the advanced options > advanced picture settings.
 Choose Action Smoothing and turn it off.
Vizio: Go to settings > picture options > advanced.
 Select the Smooth Motion Effect and turn it off.
So you’ve gotten rid of the dreaded Soap Opera Effect, but now you’re finding things look a little blurrier than they used to. Some TVs only offer those two options, so you’re stuck choosing between the Soap Opera Effect or blurring. Others, however, especially those on the higher end, offer blur-reducing technologies that don’t rely on motion smoothing or provide an adjustable range of smoothing so your experience is less jarring.
Play around with your TV settings and see what it offers. If you have a high-end TV with a lot of options, it’ll be no problem to get rid of the blur and judder (a stuttering effect most noticeable in camera pans) while still enjoying a smooth viewing experience.
Editors' Recommendations How to wall mount a TV How to get your Chromecast connected to a hotel room TV What is MHL, exactly, and how does it work with your TV? New TVs may automatically disable the awful Soap Opera Effect How-To Guides Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Audio / Video If you've been thinking about buying new headphones or earbuds, the good news is that you already have access to massive discounts through early Black Friday deals from retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart. There's a lot of options to choose from, ranging from budget models to high-end devices, so to help with your decision, we've rounded up the best Black Black Friday headphone and earbud deals that you can shop right now. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase though, as we're not sure how much time is remaining for these offers. If you see a bargain that you like, we recommended that you push through with the transaction as soon as you can.
Best Black Friday headphone deals For shoppers who have been thinking about taking advantage of headphone deals, don't let the discounts of Black Friday end without buying a new pair. You may want to check out our roundup of the best headphones for recommendations on what to purchase, as well as our headphone buying guide to figure out the features that will be important to you. There are so many headphones on sale across the different retailers, but we've gathered our favorite offers below to try to help you narrow down your choices. Some of our favorite are JBL and Beats Black Friday deals. It won't be easy, but this is a good place to start as any.
Audio / Video In the spirit of the holiday shopping season, SVS Sound is offering some incredible deals -- and by incredible, we mean record-breaking for the brand. SVS Sound has actually never participated in Black Friday festivities before, and they may never do it again. So, this may be your only chance to save this big. You name it, it's discounted. There are speakers, subwoofers, sound systems, and more discounted. Take the Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
