Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? How to figure out what size TV you should buy By Michael Bizzaco Close Thanks to constant evolutions in lighting technologies, resolution, and picture upscaling, we can sit closer to our TV screens than ever before. Ideally, you’ll be at least several feet away from your flat-screen when streaming movies and TV shows, but visual maladies like picture noise and that oh-so-dreaded pixelation are becoming far less concerning — mostly because the best modern TVs are just so dang good! But when it comes to picking the ideal TV size for your living room, bedroom, or cabana, using a few tried-and-true methodologies for determining what screen real estate is best for your viewing space is still recommended.
How to calculate TV size for your room TV feet, TV pedestals, and your TV furniture How far away will you be sitting? Factoring in field of view and viewing angles Size versus quality Luckily, your pals at Digital Trends have plenty of A/V experience and expertise, and we’ve put together this guide to help you figure out what size your new QLED, OLED, or QD-OLED should be.
How to calculate TV size for your room Image used with permission by copyright holder Before you decide what kind of TV you’re interested in buying, you’ll want to decide where you want your new television to live in your home.
 Once you’ve chosen the location, measure the height, width, and depth of that spot (there may be limitations due to the size of an entertainment center or the amount of space on a wall). When shopping around, you can match these dimensions up with the measurements of the whole TV, (not just the screen size) to make sure it will fit. You’ll find that some TVs have footprints that are physically larger than others of the same screen size, so always look at the product dimensions to see whether it will fit into the space available.
What is Apple TV+? Pricing, features, how to get it, and more What is Android TV? Google’s smart TV platform fully explained Best Buy TV deals: Save on QLED TVs, OLED TVs, and 8K TVs Fortunately, most TV manufacturers and consumer tech retailers (including Amazon) will also list these dimensions online and on sales floor product cards. For the former, you usually won’t find dimensions under a product’s top-advertised features and specs, but there’s typically some kind of drop-down or expanded menu called something like “full specs” or “additional info” that has these details. Look here for things like total TV dimensions, how many HDMI ports the TV has, and/or what kind of native refresh rate the display can handle.
If you’re looking for dimensions on a store product tag, try looking at the bottom of the card. Product dimensions are often treated as little footnotes (just like online!) at stores like Best Buy, Walmart and Target, so the height, width, and depth may be twice as small as the other specs on that piece of paper.
TV feet, TV pedestals, and your TV furniture Samsung If you aren’t going to mount your new TV on a wall , you’ll need to consider where the two feet of your new TV are going to be located. In most cases, a TV’s total width (measured from one side of the top or bottom part of the frame to the other) will give you a great ballpark idea as to how long of a shelf your TV furniture should have. But there are rare cases where the TV’s feet can actually extend beyond the left and right sides of the TV. In these cases, you’ll want to either measure the distance between the farthest-extended point of the left foot to the right foot, and use that measurement to determine what kind of TV furniture you should be looking at (or if what you already own will work).
For situations where you can’t wall-mount your TV, and you also can’t see yourself parting ways with a cherished piece of home theater furniture because it’s not wide enough, you can always opt for a universal TV stand.
 Similar to a standard TV wall mount, VESA-certified arms are screwed into the back of your TV, while a mounting bracket is fixed to the base of the stand. Many universal stands will also tilt up and down and pivot from side to side.
How far away will you be sitting? Next, think about where you’ll be sitting in relation to where your TV will be mounted or perched. There are TV viewing distance calculators (here’s another one ) that recommend a TV screen size based on viewing distance. If you don’t want to bother with an online calculator, here’s a simplified calculation that you can do to work it out yourself (although we do recommend using one of those calculators no matter what): Measure the distance from your seat to the television in inches and multiply by 0.84. This will give you a rough idea of how large of a TV your space can handle. This method isn’t perfect, of course. For example, if you are sitting eight feet away from the TV, the calculation calls for an 80-inch screen, and that’s just not realistic for most folks. Realistically, you may want to use that rough-idea equation, and then subtract 10 or 15 inches from the result. Generally speaking, the average screen size for most living room TVs is right around 65 inches, and the average size of most living rooms is right around 16 feet by 20 feet. But not every living room is designed the same, and obstacles like fireplaces, interior walls, and load-bearing beams are going to factor into where your TV can be placed, too.
Factoring in field of view and viewing angles Image used with permission by copyright holder Field of view refers to how much space your TV screen takes up compared to what else your eyes can or will be drawn to in your viewing space. For example, in a movie theater, the field of view is very large because there’s not much else you can see. In a living room, the field of view tends to be on the smaller side, because residential common areas are typically packed to the brim with windows, furniture, lighting fixtures, home decor, and other eye-catching objects and structures. Experts generally recommend a field of view around 30 degrees to 36 degrees. For a 50-inch TV, that would mean sitting around 5.6 feet away. If you have limited space, you can always use field of view in reverse to pick the size of your TV based on where people will be sitting.
Don’t confuse field of view with viewing angle though (or how easy it is to see the TV when sitting off-center from the screen). A TV’s viewing angle depends on the display type, with OLED TVs generally having the best viewing angles you can find on modern sets. But overall screen size is helpful, too. After all, the bigger the display, the easier it should be to see it from multiple vantages. However, ambient lighting and how it contributes to screen glare is another variable you’ll want to consider when thinking about your TV’s viewing angle.
Size versus quality LG If you’re trying to maximize screen real estate on a tight budget, you’re going to have to sacrifice some picture quality for a bigger screen (in most cases). As such, we recommend (as per our comprehensive TV buying guide) striking a balance between screen size and quality. So instead of going for that massive 85-inch QLED from an up-and-coming brand that’s on the shelves for just $500 , consider opting for the smaller, 55-inch big-name model next to it for $550. Chances are the latter uses far better picture processing and lighting technologies — and brands like Samsung and LG are tried-and-true TV companies that deliver great sets year after year.
You’ll also want to keep in mind the types of content you’ll be viewing. If you’re a Blu-ray enthusiast or 4K streaming connoisseur, your 4K or 8K TV is going to have more picture info (and thus greater detail) to deliver than someone watching mid-90s Crash Bandicoot speed-runs on YouTube. There’s nothing wrong with the latter, but the fact remains that low-polygon marsupials just aren’t as pixel-packed as our favorite blue heroes from 2022’s Avatar: The Way of Water.
Editors' Recommendations The best Amazon Fire TV device you should buy in 2023 The best TV brands of 2023: from LG to TCL, which should you buy? The best Roku TVs of 2023: which should you buy? The best HDMI cables you can buy in 2023 When is the best time to buy a TV? Audio / Video High-resolution audio, hi-res audio, or even HD audio -- whatever you decide to call it (for the record, the industry prefers "hi-res audio"), it's a catch-all term that describes digital audio that goes above and beyond the level of sound quality you can expect from a garden-variety MP3 file and even CDs. It was once strictly the domain of audiophiles, but now that major streaming music services like Apple Music, Amazon Music, Tidal, Deezer, and Qobuz have embraced it, almost everyone can take advantage of what hi-res has to offer.
But what exactly is hi-res audio? What equipment do you need to listen to it? Where can you download or stream it? And does it actually sound better? We've got the answers.
What does the term 'hi-res audio' mean? Audio / Video When you think of streaming video, you think YouTube. And so YouTube TV — Google's live TV streaming service — very much just makes sense for a lot of people. Designed for those who want to cut the cord and ditch their cable or satellite subscriptions (and known in the industry as a multichannel video programming distributor, or MPVD), YouTube TV competes in the same arena as other streaming television services like DirecTV Stream (formerly known as AT&T TV Now and DirecTV Now), Sling TV, FuboTV, and Hulu With Live TV.
And YouTube TV offers a unique mix of features that make it very appealing, so much so that it's now the No. 1 service in the U.S. in terms of the number of paid subscribers, with some 5 million subscribers as of June 2022 — up some 2 million from the last time the service gave an update in October 2020. The popularity is due to several factors. YouTube TV is easy to use. It's got a selection of channels that's competitive with all its rivals. And the YouTube TV price is competitive, too. You're able to watch YouTube TV on pretty much any modern device. And the fact that parent company Alphabet (aka Google) has been marketing the heck out of it the past few years certainly hasn't hurt, either.
Audio / Video Here's an experiment: Pick a real estate or interior design show -- literally any of them will do -- and look for the number of times a TV shows up mounted above a fireplace. It happens so often, it could be a drinking game. It happens so often, you might think it's a good idea. Let us be perfectly clear: it's a terrible idea.
We get it: a fireplace is often the focal point of a room, so throwing your beautiful new TV in the same location feels like the right thing to do, especially if you have limited space. Even some TV manufacturers appear to endorse the idea (just look at some of the photos in this article). But before you start drilling holes, allow us to list the many reasons we're begging you to reconsider this decision.
Heat + electronics = bad Seriously, TCL? TCL / TCL Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
