Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix F1 Live Stream Stranger Things Season 5 Best New Movies Most Popular Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney+ UFC Live Stream Best Movies on Disney+ Home Audio / Video Guides What’s the difference between Google TV and Android TV? By James Holloway Close In September, Google unveiled its next-generation interface for Android TV, dubbed Google TV , which made its debut running on the company’s latest Chromecast and is available as a mobile app for Android devices. The Chromecast with Google TV was the first of the company’s streaming devices to have a user interface with a separate remote. It was well-reviewed, helping the Google TV platform gain traction against competitors such as Apple TV and Roku.
User interface Available devices Google TV’s future Built on top of Android TV , the shiny new overlay is set to be Google’s flagship TV user interface by 2022, replacing Android TV in thousands of devices such as streaming sticks and set-top boxes like the Nvidia Shield to smart TVs from the likes of TCL, Sony, and more.
But what’s the difference between Google TV and Android TV ? We’re here to break it down.
Further reading TCL’s 5- and 6-Series TVs now available with Google TV, Dolby Vision, HDR10+ Google TV releases update, adds voice search and new programming guide What is Google TV? Here’s everything you need to know What is Android TV? Google’s smart TV platform fully explained User interface First, it’s important to note that Android TV isn’t disappearing; it’s just not going to be the customer-facing platform it once was. Rather, it’ll be the backbone of the new platform. The best way to think of Google TV is essentially a software layer over Android TV with a nice new paint job. But until Android TV takes that behind-the-scenes role completely, many device manufacturers will still be using it as they roll out their updates.
DirecTV Stream raises pricing across all its tiers Peacock TV free trial: Can you stream for free How much is Apple TV+? Both Android TV and Google TV allow you to download, buy, and stream content from all your standard providers, such as Hulu , Netflix, YouTube, Disney+, HBO Max, Amazon Prime Video, Google Play Movies & TV (rebranded to Google TV ), and many more. But Google TV benefits from Google’s machine learning, Google Assistant , and Google’s Knowledge Graph information base to learn your viewing habits and preferences to bring the content you know and love to the forefront.
The biggest difference you’ll notice with Google TV is the home screen. The interface is more refined looking, with results from across all your services much easier to find.
Android TV is similar but less personalized, with your apps front and center and your tailored content found in the Discover tab, whereas Google TV has a dedicated For You tab, which is the first tab shown to you when the device is powered on.
Previous Next 1 2 Google TV Home Screen Google Android TV Home Screen Image used with permission by copyright holder Google TV ’s Watchlist feature is pretty cool, too. Found under the Library section tab, it’s similar to Netflix’s My List, where you can add movies and TV shows you want to check out to the Watchlist to curate or remember things to watch later. But the Watchlist is not tied to just your TV — when signed in to your Google account, you can search for and add content to it from your browser on your computer or smartphone , and the titles will be found in your library. Log in to your Google account, and type in the film or TV show you want to add to the Watchlist in a Google search, then select Watchlist to add your library’s content. You can even manage your Watchlist from your browser.
The Watchlist feature was once exclusive to Google TV , but earlier this month, Google announced that an update is bringing the Watchlist feature and a handful of other Google TV enhancements to Android TV and the Google TV for Android smartphone app. The update will also allow for more personalization (with the ability to tell it what you like and don’t), improved details, and trailers in the profile pages for shows, movies, and more.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Both Google TV and Android TV allow you to use Google Assistant voice commands to search for content, so there’s no real difference there. But when it comes to the setup, Google TV is different — you can utilize the Google Home app (instead of through the TV itself) with the remote. Of course, you can use the TV, but setting up Google TV via the Google Home app is a faster experience.
Available devices It’s going to take some time for Google TV to eventually phase out the Android TV interface, so currently, there are not many devices with the new platform.
Google TV is available on Chromecast with Google TV , the Google TV for Android app, and select Bravia TVs from Sony and now TCL’s latest 5- and 6-Series TVs come loaded with the platform.
Android TV is still very much active in the marketplace and has a long list of partners, including Nvidia, Hisense, Sony, Sharp, TCL, and more. And while some manufacturers of Android devices like to ensure that the latest updates are optimized properly for their devices, how long it will take for them all to update to Google TV is anyone’s guess. Nvidia, for instance, is known for ensuring that the software is properly optimized for the best experience before updating the Nvidia Shield, so perhaps we’ll see the popular Android set-top box switch over sooner rather than later.
Google TV’s future Google TV is a great step in the right direction from Android TV.
 Seeing what you know and love right in front of you is a helpful added feature. The search giant’s focus on the Google Assistant is another critical component in the platform’s feature set.
Current users of Android TV will not be out of place when upgrading to Google TV.
 The updated and more personalized approach makes the experience more seamless with the platform. Google is on the right track with Google TV and looks to keep the momentum up as more TV and device manufacturers adopt it.
Editors' Recommendations YouTube TV still leads after latest round of streaming numbers What is DirecTV Stream: plans, pricing, channels, and more Sling TV adds live scores and more for sports fans What is Apple TV+? Pricing, features, how to get it, and more YouTube NFL outage: Should Google give refunds or credits? Android Entertainment Android Google Streaming Services Audio / Video If you're a sports fan, FuboTV may be the answer to your cord-cutting dreams. What is FuboTV? It's a live streaming service that focuses mainly on sports-focused live TV and can help you quit cable for good. And it's very much growing in popularity, currently sitting in fourth place in the U.S. with about 1.17 million subscribers.
FuboTV's pricing and plans -- and even the channels available -- are competitive with services that are many times its size. And that's what's great about the whole streaming space: You have options. That's also the hard part. It can be tough to tell the difference between FuboTV and Hulu With Live TV. Or FuboTV versus YouTube TV. What makes one stand out above the others? Audio / Video The new sidebar is visible in the TV app on Apple TV in the tvOS 17.2 developer beta. Phil Nickinson / Digital Trends One of the messier pieces of the Apple TV experience on Apple TV 4K hardware has long been Apple's TV app. It's where Apple has attempted to aggregate all the things you can watch on your Apple TV, from Apple TV+ to any number of installed applications. (Another seriously messy piece is the myriad things Apple has named "Apple TV." But that's another problem for another time.) Audio / Video Subscribers to Apple TV+ are about to get a big surprise as Apple today raised the price of its Apple TV+ streaming service for the second time in its four-year history, hiking it from $7 to $10 per month. Its annual subscription rate also goes from $69 to $99.
The new prices quietly appeared on the company's website today, but Apple TV+ isn't the only service in its roster to see a price increase: Apple's gaming subscription service, Apple Arcade, has gone from $5 per month to $7 per month and its news subscription, Apple News+ goes from $10 per month to $13 per month. This is the first time either of those services has had their prices increased.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
