Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Download YouTube Videos What is YouTube Premium? Price, content, and more Free Movies on YouTube Play YouTube in the Background What is YouTube Music? Home Audio / Video Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? YouTube TV in 4K: Everything you need to know By Phil Nickinson Close When it comes to streaming live TV in the U.S. (or streaming any kind of video anywhere, for that matter), resolution and bit rate remain as important as ever. And you’re now able to enjoy YouTube TV in 4K. Some of it, at least. And if it seems like it’s taken forever for that to happen, you’re not wrong.
YouTube TV 4K price and how to add it NFL Sunday Ticket and YouTube TV in 4K What can you watch in 4K on YouTube TV? What devices support YouTube TV in 4K? What else do you get with YouTube TV 4K? The basic fact is that it takes a lot of bandwidth to stream video — and that’s even more difficult when you’re talking linear TV, (and more so still if it’s a live event like sports). So it’s not really that much of a surprise to learn that most live channels stream at 720p resolution — or maybe 1080p if you’re lucky. (We’ll leave frame rate out of the equation for a minute, but it’s a thing, too, especially for sports.) For the most part, 4K resolution — we’re talking 2160p — is pretty hard to come by.
FuboTV has had some in the past, and YouTube TV has joined the 4K party via its optional 4K Plus add-on. And it’s a big deal. When you look at YouTube TV versus Hulu With Live TV — which is its biggest competitor — you’ll quickly note that 4K is something the latter definitely lacks on the live front.
YouTube’s enhanced 1080p video now available on more devices YouTube TV still leads after latest round of streaming numbers The best Amazon Fire TV device you should buy in 2023 That YouTube TV 4K Plus add-on actually gets you three major features, and they definitely help justify the price (especially considering that you don’t get everything in the higher resolution). They are: 4K resolution on some content.
The ability to watch as many streams on your home network as you want.
The ability to watch recorded shows and movies offline on mobile devices.
Those are the big points, but let’s break it down a bit. Here’s everything you need to know about 4K streaming on YouTube TV.
Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends YouTube TV 4K price and how to add it First things first: You’ll need an existing YouTube TV subscription if you want to watch anything in 4K.
 That runs $73 a month (as of September 2023), plus tax. The 4K Plus add-on costs another $10 a month, but you’ll actually get the first full year at half that price. After that, you’ll pay the full price.
So with no other add-ons, including 4K on your YouTube TV subscription will cost a total of $78 a month for the first year, then $83 a month after that.
To add the 4K Plus add-on to your subscription fee, you’ll need to go into your YouTube TV account from a web browser. (Click your avatar in the top right corner, then choose Settings , and then Membership.
 Or this link should take you right there.
) Look for the 4K Plus add-on, then add it.
That’s also where you can cancel the 4K Plus add-on if you decide you don’t want it any longer.
NFL Sunday Ticket and YouTube TV in 4K We hate to be the bearer of bad news, but buying the 4K Plus add-on doesn’t automatically get you 4K resolution on everything. And that includes NFL Sunday Ticket , which is now available on YouTube TV.
 (And on YouTube proper.) That’s the bad news. There’s also some worse news. Some NFL games might actually be limited to 720p. That’s not great, though at least the broadcasts are still being streamed at 60 frames per second, which absolutely is a must for live sports.
While 4K resolution would be great when it comes to live sports — and it most certainly is great — it’s also not a deal-breaker. Apple has shown with MLS Season Pass how a great 1080p stream can be perfectly capable , and in many ways it can actually be better.
But for now? No NFL Sunday Ticket in 4K resolution on YouTube TV.
What can you watch in 4K on YouTube TV? Adding the 4K Plus add-on doesn’t magically upscale everything on YouTube TV to a higher resolution. That’s just not how it works. You’ll still need the content itself to be available in 4K resolution to actually make use of that part of the add-on. (We’ll repeat, again, that it’s really just one-third of what you get, though it’s definitely the most important third.) You can split what’s available in 4K resolution into two categories: On-demand, and live. You’ll find a bunch of shows available on-demand from Discovery, FX, Tastemade, and Nat Geo. That includes high-profile titles like What We Do in the Shadows , Snowfall , Make This Tonight , Struggle Meals , and How It’s Made — and that’s just for starters. And they look great in 4K resolution, as you’d expect for something that’s been prerecorded and optimized for streaming.
Where 4K content really shines, though, is when it comes to live events. And by that, we really mean sports. On that front, you’ll find live games and events from ESPN, Fox Sports, and NBC Sports. What’s available is seasonal, of course. In the fall, you’ll find college football and the English Premier League, for example.
Sports in 4K are still pretty few and far between, but we’ll take whatever we can get. The best way to find out what’s coming up is to hit the Home tab on YouTube TV , and then the 4K filter.
This is the part where someone will stand up and yell, “But it’s not true 4K !” And they’re almost certainly right. When it comes to sports, what you’re almost certainly watching is some sort of upscaled feed. That is, it’s shot in either 720p or 1080p (probably the latter), then upscaled at the source to 4K resolution, and then streamed by YouTube TV.
 Yes, native 4K would be a lot better. That’s what you get when you’re watching a movie or show on Netflix or Amazon Prime Video. But moving that much data in real time to as many people who watch a live sporting event is really hard. So for now, we still have to contend with upscaling.
But here’s the thing: Sports in 4K look better. A lot better.
Phil Nickinson/Digital Trends What devices support YouTube TV in 4K? This is where things get a little tricky. Not every piece of hardware out there supports 4K resolution, of course (and your TV also will have to have a 4K panel). Here’s the official list of devices that support YouTube TV in 4K : 4K smart TVs running Android TV Smart TVs from Samsung, LG, and Hisense, from 2016 or newer Chromecast with Google TV 4K Roku streaming players Apple TV 4K (2021) PlayStation 4 Pro Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K Nvidia Shield Obviously missing from that list are web browsers, despite the fact that you can find a 4K monitor fairly affordable these days.
YouTube TV tops out there at 1080p.
It’s also worth mentioning that the 2017 model of Apple TV 4K is missing from that list, but we’re starting to see some content available on that older model in the full 3480 x 2160 resolution.
What else do you get with YouTube TV 4K? As mentioned above, content in 4K resolution is just one-third of the features that are included in the 4K Plus package.
In addition to everything looking better, you’ll also be able to download recorded shows to a mobile device for offline viewing. That means you won’t need a data connection to watch, say, Snowfall , while you’re on the subway. Just hit the download button (it looks like an arrow pointing downward) for the show. If the button is grayed out, the content isn’t available for download.
You’re limited to one device at a time for downloaded content. You won’t be able to watch that show on another device before first deleting the downloaded version.
The other feature included in the 4K Plus add-on is the ability to watch on as many devices at once, so long as you’re doing so on your home network. That feature works for family members under the same account, too.
If you’re outside your home network, you’ll still be limited to three streams at once.
Editors' Recommendations Hisense teases 110-inch, 10,000-nit TV ahead of CES 2024 Sharp’s promised Roku OLED TV is now available and deeply discounted Best TV deals: Get a 65-inch 4K TV for under $300 and more Best 70-inch TV deals: Get a big screen for sports for $450 What is Apple TV+? Pricing, features, how to get it, and more Cord Cutting 101 Streaming Services YouTube Audio / Video Upgrade your home theater setup by buying from QLED TV deals, which will give you incredible brightness and accurate colors with the help of a layer of quantum dots. If you're interested in buying a QLED TV, the good news is that there are discounts that you can shop right now, but only if you hurry. We've listed our top picks here to help you make a decision, but because of the popularity of QLED TVs, we don't think stocks will last long. If you see an offer from these TV deals that you like, you better push through with the purchase immediately.
TCL 50-inch Q5 4K QLED TV -- $250, was $400 You don't need to spend several hundreds of dollars to get a QLED TV in your living room because there are affordable options like the 50-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV. With 4K Ultra HD resolution and support for all the most advanced HDR formats, you'll enjoy sharp details and lifelike colors, and it runs on Google TV to access all of the popular streaming services. The platform also offers Chromecast so you can stream from your mobile devices onto the 50-inch screen, and it enables compatibility with Google Assistant and Amazon's Alexa.
Audio / Video Samsung is almost universally amongst the best TV brands, which makes its lineup of 4K TVs a good option if you’re looking to expand, upgrade, or start from scratch a home theater setup. A new Samsung 4K TV actually makes a great way to save as well, as there are a lot of Samsung TV deals taking place right now. We’ve tracked down the best available, so whether you’re comparing between QLED and OLED TVs or want to ensure you get something that compares with the best TVs, read onward, as there’s likely a deal available for you.
Samsung 50-inch Q60C QLED 4K TV — $580, was $600 As owners of any one of the best QLED TVs can attest, QLED technology produces one of the best 4K images available on the market right now. It utilizes dual LEDs and Quantum Dot color to create lifelike images, and an overall immersive home theater experience. This Samsung 50-inch QLED 4K TV comes in at a good size for just about any room, as it’s not too big and not too small. It’s able to upscale older content into the modern clarity of 4K resolution, and picture quality is heightened with Quantum HDR technology. Smart TV capabilities include compatibility with voice assistants, object tracking for 3D surround sound, and easy access to built-in streaming services.
Audio / Video With an OLED TV, you'll be getting unparalleled depth, color, and sharpness, and between OLED and QLED TVs, the advantages of OLED TVs include perfect black levels, superior response times, wider viewing angles, and lower power consumption. If you're sold, check out the OLED TV deals that we've gathered here, as they're the best that you can buy right now. You're going to have to be quick with your purchase though, because time may already be running out for some of these offers.
48-inch LG A2 Series OLED 4K TV — $550, was $1,300 The LG A2 Series OLED 4K TV offers 4K Ultra HD resolution on its 48-inch display, and with the brand's a7 Gen 5 AI Processor 4K, you'll enjoy even richer colors and lifelike pictures. The TV runs on LG's webOS 22 platform, through which you can access all of the most popular streaming services, while also enabling compatibility with digital assistants like Amazon's Alexa and Google Assistant.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
