Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Phones Best Tablets Tesla Phone Download Android 14 Best Android Phones Home Mobile Guides News What does a 120Hz refresh rate do? Smartphone refresh rates explained By Mark Jansen Close A number of manufacturers have added 90Hz and 120Hz displays to smartphones — like the Samsung Galaxy S22 Ultra or Google Pixel 7 Pro — and lots of numbers are being thrown around (60Hz, 90Hz, 120Hz), but what do they mean ? Most importantly, what will they mean for how you’ll use your smartphone? What is refresh rate? What difference will you notice between 60Hz, 90Hz, and 120Hz? Does it have downsides? What is an adaptive refresh rate? Do you need a 90Hz or 120Hz refresh rate? Smartphones are getting more and more powerful, but with the last generation’s hardware still holding its own, the jump from generation to generation doesn’t seem as great as it once did. Where are manufacturers to go when a new phone doesn’t feel more powerful than last year’s device? One alternative is to make it feel smoother and more responsive — and a great way to do that is to increase the refresh rate of its display.
If you don’t know why you should get excited about a 120Hz display, then this guide is for you. We’re going to break down what an increase in refresh rate is, how it will benefit your smartphone in the long run, and what exactly the adaptive refresh rate on the iPhone 14 Pro really is.
What iPhone do I have? How to find out your iPhone model number How to tell if your smartphone has been hacked The best fitness workout accessories for your smartphone What is refresh rate? Before we can explain how a 90Hz or 120Hz display will benefit you, we need to unravel exactly what refresh rate is, and to do that, we need to know how displays work. There’s a lot of technical stuff involved here, but at its most basic level, a display works by showing you a series of images, or “frames.” To make a video, displays need to show a series of frames, one after another. The refresh rate of a monitor is how many times an image is updated per second. So a 60Hz display refreshes its image 60 times a second. This is obviously too fast for your brain to track, so it’s tricked into thinking it is watching a moving image rather than a series of single frames.
A higher refresh rate means more images are shown in the same amount of time, which means any movement between each frame seems smoother. Because there are more frames, it reduces the gap between individual frames. While not something you’re likely to consciously notice, most people can feel some difference between refresh rates. Also, more images mean changes resolve quicker — so your phone will feel more responsive, as it seems to react more quickly to your commands.
It sounds similar to your graphic processor’s frame rate, and that’s because it is. Frame rate is measured in frames-per-second, or fps, and that is how quickly a graphics processor can process and deliver individual images to your display. You’ll need a monitor with a refresh rate of at least 120Hz to display 120 fps at its finest. However, while refresh rate is similar to fps, it’s not the same thing. Refresh rate is tied to the monitor itself, while the frame rate is how quickly information is sent to your monitor by your graphics processor.
What difference will you notice between 60Hz, 90Hz, and 120Hz? Andy Boxall/Digital Trends We’ve already covered this in the last section, but it’s worth mentioning again that an increase in smoothness and responsiveness are the primary benefits you’ll get from an increased refresh rate. Scrolling through your apps and swiping across menus will feel smoother and more responsive as a result of the higher refresh rate. Motion blur — the blur you see between actions — will also be reduced as a result of the higher refresh rate.
But a higher refresh rate isn’t just about day-to-day usability. Gaming performance is one of the biggest beneficiaries of a higher refresh rate, and it’s for this reason gaming phones led the charge on higher refresh rates. Phones like the Razer Phone 2 and the Asus ROG Phone 2 were amongst the first to pack higher refresh rates than normal for a reason, and it’s because a display with a higher refresh rate also has lower input lag. Input lag is the time between an action being triggered on the display and it taking place in the game. A standard 60Hz display cannot have an input lag faster than 16.63 milliseconds because that’s how long it takes for each image to refresh, while a 120Hz display can reach 8.33 milliseconds, as it refreshes twice as often.
If you’re really not sure whether you’ll see the benefit from using a device with a 90Hz or 120Hz display, we recommend heading out to a carrier or manufacturer store and trying out the phone or tablet for yourself. When it comes to refresh rate increases, the proof is really in the pudding, and there’s no way to explain the difference it makes without trying it for yourself.
Does it have downsides? Like many technological advancements, an increase in refresh rate does come with a few potential pitfalls. The biggest disadvantage is increased battery consumption. Pushing out twice as many frames means an increased burden on the battery, and if your phone struggles with slim battery life at the best of times, you may want to disable the higher refresh rate in order to save juice. The option to disable higher refresh rates is available on most phones with refresh rates higher than 60Hz, and it was particularly useful on the Google Pixel 4 , where an already small battery was seriously hampered by the 90Hz refresh rate.
Outside of taxing the battery, a higher refresh rate is just expensive overall. It’s still relatively new tech on smartphones, which means it’s likely to be restricted to flagship devices only for the next few years or so. Outside of specialized devices like gaming phones, don’t expect to see this on budget or midrange phones for the time being.
What is an adaptive refresh rate? Andy Boxall/ DigitalTrends Samsung’s Galaxy S21 range didn’t just introduce a new design, it also debuted a brand new feature for smartphones — display tech with an adaptive refresh rate. Since then, we’ve seen the technology spread to other flagship phones, including Apple’s iPhone range and the Google Pixel phones. But what does it mean? In basic terms, the phone is able to change the refresh rate to match your actions on screen. If you’re looking at a still image, it’ll pull the refresh rate down, as there’s less need to refresh the image every second. Or, if you’re playing a fast-paced game, it’ll ratchet the refresh rate up so you can get the best possible experience.
Why is this a feature you should be excited about? Changing between refresh rates often requires diving into your Settings menu, but any time you’re looking at a still image, you’re not really getting the benefit of the extra frames. However, it’ll still be pulling extra power from your battery, so giving your phone the ability to intelligently recognize when a higher refresh rate isn’t needed helps to keep battery consumption down.
The refresh rates on offer depend on the model you’re using. The Samsung Galaxy S21 and S21 Plus could access refresh rates between 48Hz and 120Hz, while the Galaxy S21 Ultra could switch anywhere between 10Hz and 120Hz. The wider refresh rate range means the S21 Ultra can push the refresh rate even further down when it’s not needed, saving even more battery. Thankfully, these days, most phones that offer this ability tend to offer rates between 1Hz and 120Hz.
Do you need a 90Hz or 120Hz refresh rate? Image used with permission by copyright holder Absolutely not — much in the same way you don’t “need” a camera, flashlight, or pinball game on your smartphone. But anyone who has used a device with a 90Hz or 120Hz refresh rate will tell you the massive difference it makes to the way your device feels. At this point, it is purely a luxury, so if you are content with your current performance speeds, you don’t have to feel any pressure to invest in an improvement that still seems extraneous.
As the pace of technological innovation rushes on, you know that higher refresh rates will soon be the new normal. Refresh rates of 120Hz are still largely restricted to top-tier devices, like the iPad Pro , top-spec gaming phones, and flagships — but the 90Hz refresh rate is now included on some lower-priced smartphones, like the $600 Pixel 7.
Editors' Recommendations Does the iPhone 15 have a 120Hz display? Does the iPhone 14 have a 120Hz display? What is Airplane Mode? What it does and when to use it The best to-do apps for Android and iOS How much RAM does a smartphone actually need? We asked the experts Android Apple Android Apple Google Mobile With so much going on in the news lately, more of us than ever before want to get the real story on what's happening in our cities, while ensuring we stay safe. News apps are great, but when it comes to staying safe and informed, we need something more immediate. Step up Citizen, an app that's designed to provide you with real-time safety alerts and instant access to verified 911 information, keeping you and your loved ones situationally aware and safe. With more than 234,000 downloads since May 25, 2020, and over 7 million users, Citizen's popularity is growing, with many people using it to check police presence and ensure safety at protests and demonstrations in their city.
If you've found yourself wondering, "What is the Citizen app?" or are curious about what it can do and how to use it, read through our guide as we take a look at some of the app's most useful features and show you how to get started.
What is the Citizen app? Mobile Shooting professional-quality video on your smartphone is now a thing. As video becomes more popular with hobbyists and pros alike, and various mobile video editing apps make footage a cinch to edit, more and more people are turning to their smartphones to record video. As smartphone tech advances, video quality has zoomed past 1080p to 4K and even 8K capture -- though the massive files the latter create can only be viewed on compatible TVs and monitors.
Some phones also offer higher frame rates of 60, 120, 240, and even 960 fps in lower resolutions for shooting in slow-mo. Cinematic software modes provide additional manual controls. Automatic scene selection and image correction and stabilization are becoming even more common. These advanced features often rely on some degree of artificial intelligence. With the right features, smartphones can assist in creating professional productions, and some are better than others. Here are the best smartphones out there for shooting video.
Mobile Like everything else, the way you pay for anything, from a movie theater ticket to a new car, is changing. Google Pay completely takes your finances and makes them high-tech by allowing you to combine all your accounts in one secure place.
The best part is it turns your phone into your personal banking system, letting you make payments or transfer money in the blink of an eye. Learn all the steps you need to follow to get up and running with this service right now.
How to send and receive money Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
