Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Best Netflix Original Movies Best Comedies on Netflix Best Netflix Original Series Best Anime on Netflix Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Fantasy Movies on Netflix Home Entertainment Guides Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best Netflix original movies right now By Blair Marnell , Michael Bizzaco and Nick Perry Close Where would Netflix be without its original movies? The king of the streamers still brings in dozens of movies each month from other studios, but it’s the original films that shore up Netflix’s library when those borrowed titles have to go away. Netflix also gets to turn its original movies into special events, especially when the company gets behind big-budget blockbusters.
This month’s new additions to Netflix’s original movies are more subdued than usual. There are two thrillers, Reptile and Fair Play , as well as Old Dads , a new comedy written and directed by Bill Burr. And there are even more Netflix originals on the way before the end of the year. So if you want to stay current, keep checking back for our updated list of the best Netflix original movies right now.
If you don’t find what you’re looking for here, try our other lists of the best Netflix original series , the best Hulu original series , the best Amazon Prime original movies , and the best Amazon Prime original series.
The best movies on Amazon Prime Video (November 2023) The 50 best shows on Netflix in November 2023 5 best death game movies you should watch right now Old Dads (2023) new r 102m Comedy Bill Burr, Bobby Cannavale, Bokeem Woodbine Bill Burr watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Not content with letting Adam Sandler dominate the Netflix original comedies, Bill Burr directs, co-writes, and stars in the new film Old Dads.
 Burr plays Jack Kelly, the co-owner of a throwback jersey business with his best buddies, Connor Brody (Bobby Cannavale) and Mike Richards (Bokeem Woodbine).
As the title implies, that trio are old dads, and being a parent is way too expensive. Their solution is to sell the company to their new boss, Aspen Bell (Miles Robbins). But without the safety net of being their own bosses, Jack and his friends find that they are very out of step with modern times. This even puts pressure on Jack’s relationship with his wife, Leah Kelly (Katie Aselton), ahead of the birth of their child.
Read less Reptile (2023) new r 136m Crime, Drama, Thriller Benicio del Toro, Justin Timberlake, Alicia Silverstone Grant Singer watch on Netflix watch on Netflix A simple murder case is anything but routine in the new thriller Reptile.
 Someone has brutally murdered Summer Elswick (Matilda Lutz), and suspicion falls on her boyfriend, Will Grady (Justin Timberlake); her ex-husband, Sam Gifford (Karl Glusman); and a third man, Eli Phillips (Michael Pitt).
Detective Tom Nichols ( Benicio del Toro ) is in charge of the investigation, and he trusts his wife, Judy (Alicia Silverstone), with details about the case because she notices things that he doesn’t. Unfortunately for Tom, the closer he looks at Summer’s murder, the more he sees the connections to his own life and to a larger conspiracy.
Read less Fair Play (2023) new r 113m Thriller, Drama Phoebe Dynevor, Alden Ehrenreich, Eddie Marsan Chloe Domont watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Hedge fund co-workers Luke (Alden Ehrenreich) and Emily (Phoebe Dynevor) share a lot in Netflix’s erotic thriller, Fair Play.
 They both have a passion for the business, and each other, even though their relationship is strictly forbidden by their company. Regardless, their relationship goes smoothly, especially when Luke believes he’s getting a coveted promotion.
When the job goes to Emily instead, her relationship with Luke starts to go very badly. Luke’s jealousy and paranoia poison every aspect of his bond with Emily, to the point where they can no longer trust each other. And if they aren’t careful, the fallout may also crush their career ambitions.
Read less Spy Kids: Armageddon (2023) pg 90m Family, Adventure, Action, Fantasy Gina Rodriguez, Zachary Levi, Connor Esterson Robert Rodriguez watch on Netflix watch on Netflix The Spy Kids franchise is getting a reboot of sorts in Spy Kids: Armageddon , with Robert Rodriguez once again in the director’s chair. In this sequel, the focus shifts to the Tango-Torrez family, which is the union of the world’s two greatest secret agents: Nora (Gina Rodriguez) and Terrence (Zachary Levi). That leaves their children, Patty (Everly Carganilla) and Tony (Connor Esterson), with a lot to live up to.
But when Patty and Tony are tricked into helping Rey “The King” Kingston (Billy Magnussen) take over the world’s technology, it falls upon them to rectify their mistake by joining the family business and saving the world.
Read less Love at First Sight (2023) pg-13 91m Romance, Drama Haley Lu Richardson, Ben Hardy, Rob Delaney Vanessa Caswill watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Hadley Sullivan (Haley Lu Richardson) and Oliver Jones (Ben Hardy) experience instant affection in Love At First Sight.
 But just because there’s love doesn’t necessarily mean that romance will follow. Hadley and Oliver meet each other while waiting for a flight to London, and they bond during the long overseas trip. But at the airport, they part without closure.
As Hadley and Oliver deal with their respective family drama, they realize that they want to give love a chance if they can reunite with each other. Yet some things are better left to fate.
Read less You Are So Not Invited to My Bat Mitzvah (2023) pg-13 103m Comedy Idina Menzel, Jackie Sandler, Adam Sandler Sammi Cohen watch on Netflix watch on Netflix You Are So Not Invited to My Bat Mitzvah is the story of the friendship turned rivalry between two young Jewish girls, Stacy Friedman (Sunny Sandler) and Lydia Rodriguez Katz (Samantha Lorraine). These inseparable BFFs both have their eyes on Andy Goldfarb (Dylan Hoffman), and that leads to some serious ruptures in their previously steadfast bond.
Adam Sandler produced the film and co-stars as Stacy’s father, Danny Friedman, with Idina Menzel as his wife, Bree Friedman. Danny and Bree have a lot of conflicts with Stacy over her pending Bat Mitzvah, but they also have the emotional experience to help their daughter find a way forward without sacrificing her friendships.
Read less Heart of Stone (2023) pg-13 125m Thriller, Action Gal Gadot, Jamie Dornan, Alia Bhatt Tom Harper watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Even without superpowers, Gal Gadot is a real wonder woman in Netflix’s action thriller Heart of Stone.
 She’s even got a secret identity as Rachel Stone, an unassuming tech for MI6 on a team with Parker (Jamie Dornan), Bailey (Paul Ready), and Yang (Jing Lusi). But Rachel’s true allegiance lies with The Charter, a secretive peacekeeping organization that has codenamed her Nine of Hearts.
After jeopardizing her cover to save her team, Rachel is thrust into a situation that forces her to question her loyalties when a threat emerges that has global implications. And even the people closest to Rachel can’t be trusted.
Read less The Monkey King (2023) pg 92m Animation, Fantasy, Adventure, Family, Comedy Jimmy O. Yang, Bowen Yang, Jolie Hoang-Rappaport Anthony Stacchi watch on Netflix watch on Netflix The legend of the Monkey King has been explored several times in adaptations of the Chinese novel, Journey To the West.
 And now, Netflix’s The Monkey King reimagines the tale as an animated epic. Jimmy O. Yang headlines the film as the Monkey King, an actual monkey whose quest for acceptance leads him to act recklessly and risk the lives of his tribe.
After stealing a weapon from Dragon King ( Fire Island ‘s Bowen Yang) to battle a demon, Monkey King takes on a young girl named Lin (Jolie Hoang-Rappaport) as his assistant. But the Dragon King’s revenge is already in motion and Monkey King can’t escape the consequences of his own actions forever.
Read less Love, Sex and 30 Candles (2023) 106m Drama, Romance Amogelang Chidi, Bahumi Madisakwane, Gabisile Tshabalala Stephina Zwane watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Nimona (2023) pg 101m Animation, Adventure, Fantasy Chloë Grace Moretz, Riz Ahmed, Eugene Lee Yang Troy Quane, Nick Bruno watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Chloë Grace Moretz provides the voice of the title character in Netflix’s Nimona , and she’s definitely no Disney princess. Quite the opposite in fact. Nimona is more of a mischievous shapeshifter who has taken it upon herself to help a would-be knight, Ballister Boldheart (Riz Ahmed), clear his name for the assassination of the queen.
Calling Ballister “Boldheart” is a real bit of nominative determinism, especially when he’s already defying norms by loving another man. But when Nimona’s secrets come to light, Ballister must decide whether to be a “hero” or a friend.
Read less Bird Box Barcelona (2023) 124m Thriller, Drama, Science Fiction, Horror Mario Casas, Georgina Campbell, Diego Calva Àlex Pastor, David Pastor watch on Netflix watch on Netflix While Bird Box Barcelona initially presents itself as simply a Spanish spinoff of the original Bird Box , it goes in some much darker directions. That’s because Sebastián (Mario Casas) is one of the few who can see the ethereal beings who are driving humanity to suicide. Sebastián believes that the creatures are divine and that it’s his destiny to make other people give into their influence.
When Sebastián joins a new group of survivors, including Claire (Georgina Campbell), and a young girl named Sofia (Naila Schuberth), he fulfills his duties until he finally has a reason to question whether his religious zealotry is truly the right course of action.
Read less The Out-Laws (2023) r 95m Romance, Action, Comedy Adam DeVine, Nina Dobrev, Pierce Brosnan Tyler Spindel watch on Netflix watch on Netflix In The Out-Laws , Owen (Adam DeVine) finally meets soon-to-be father and mother-in-law, Billy (Pierce Brosnan) and Lilly McDermott (Ellen Barkin), during the run-up to his wedding to Parker (Nina Dobrev).
Owen was excited to welcome Billy and Lilly into their lives, or at least he was until he realized that they are the notorious Ghost Bandits. And Owen knows this because they robbed his bank almost as soon as they rolled into town. But when her parents’ double life puts Parker in jeopardy, Owen is going to have to embrace his inner outlaw as well.
Read less The Perfect Find (2023) 99m Romance, Comedy Gabrielle Union, Keith Powers, Gina Torres Numa Perrier watch on Netflix watch on Netflix The Perfect Find is not entirely unlike the classic romantic comedy How Stella Got Her Groove Back.
 Both films feature 40-year-old Black women who reinvigorate their lives when they find new romance with much younger lovers. But in this film, Jenna (Gabrielle Union) carries the weight of her personal failures with her, especially in the aftermath of her breakup with Brian (DB Woodside). She even has to ask her frenemy, Darcy (Gina Torres), for a job.
That’s why it may have been a bad idea for Jenna to romance Darcy’s son, Eric (Keith Powers), who also happens to be her new co-worker. Jenna didn’t originally know that Darcy was Eric’s mother, and she doesn’t let that stop her from pursuing a relationship with him regardless of the consequences.
Read less Extraction 2 (2023) r 123m Action, Thriller Chris Hemsworth, Golshifteh Farahani, Adam Bessa Sam Hargrave watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Thor: Love and Thunder ‘s Chris Hemsworth has rediscovered his calling as an action star in Netflix’s Extraction franchise, and he reprises his role as Tyler Rake in Extraction 2.
 After narrowly surviving the events of the first film, Tyler and his team take on a righteous mission to rescue his ex-sister-in-law, Ketevan (Tinatin Dalakishvili), and her children from her abusive husband, Davit (Tornike Bziava).
Since Davit is a drug lord who is holding his own family hostage, Tyler and his team don’t hold back. Unfortunately for them, Davit’s older brother, Zurab (Tornike Gogrichiani), is now eager to get his revenge on Tyler, and he’ll go to great lengths to do so.
Read less Luckiest Girl Alive (2022) r 113m Drama, Thriller, Mystery Mila Kunis, Chiara Aurelia, Finn Wittrock Mike Barker watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Mila Kunis’ Tiffani “Ani” Fanelli is the titular Luckiest Girl Alive , but only because no one knows the secrets that she’s been carrying for years. When she went to high school, Ani was one of the survivors of a deadly shooting. And one of the reasons why Ani is so haunted is that she knew the shooters, and she also knew why they made their plans.
In the present, Ani goes out of her way to avoid one of the other survivors, Dean Barton (Alex Barone), while preparing for her wedding with Luke Harrison (Finn Wittrock). However, Ani can’t run from her past forever. And her secrets will be revealed.
Read less Lou (2022) r 107m Action, Thriller Allison Janney, Jurnee Smollett, Logan Marshall-Green Anna Foerster watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Who is Lou? In the movie that shares her name, Lou Adell (Allison Janney) is simply the landlady for a young mother, Hannah Dawson (Jurnee Smollett), and her daughter, Vee (Ridley Asha Bateman). At least that’s what Lou wants everyone to believe. It’s a deception that she has learned to live with.
But when Vee is kidnapped by her biological father, Philip (Logan Marshall-Green), Lou springs into action and displays fighting skills that go far beyond the ordinary. Lou also has a personal connection to this drama, and she won’t stop until Vee is back home where she belongs.
Read less Take Care of Maya (2023) 103m Documentary Henry Roosevelt watch on Netflix watch on Netflix There’s a new documentary climbing the movie charts on Netflix called Take Care of Maya.
 But fair warning: This film may make you very angry when you learn what Maya Kowalski and her family went through when she suffered from rare and baffling medical symptoms. When Maya’s parents, Beata and Jack, pushed for better care and more transparency from Maya’s doctors, they found themselves accused of abusing their daughter.
That pits Beata and Jack against the medical establishment, and even against each other before a tragic turn of events changes everything. The story’s final chapter hasn’t been written yet, but Take Care of Maya is a cautionary tale that parents should watch no matter how painful it gets.
Read less The Mother (2023) r 115m Action, Thriller Jennifer Lopez, Joseph Fiennes, Omari Hardwick Niki Caro watch on Netflix watch on Netflix What if the Terminator was a woman? That’s not quite the premise of The Mother , but Jennifer Lopez’s titular assassin is just about as unstoppable as a killer machine from the future. The only thing that could give this woman pause is her teenage daughter, Zoe (Lucy Paez), whom she gave up years before in the hope that she could grow up safely.
The Mother’s plans are upended when her enemies discover Zoe’s identity and kidnap her. That’s why the mother pulls out all of the stops to save Zoe, and then starts training Zoe so she can protect herself as well.
Read less A Tourist's Guide to Love (2023) pg 96m Romance, Comedy, Adventure Rachael Leigh Cook, Scott Ly, Missi Pyle Steven K. Tsuchida watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Chupa (2023) pg 98m Adventure, Fantasy, Family Demián Bichir, Evan Whitten, Christian Slater Jonás Cuarón watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Director Jonás Cuarón’s Chupa has a lot in common with Stephen Spielberg’s E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial.
 Both films are about a young boy who befriends a creature of unknown origin. In this case, it’s a chupacabra cub that is found by Alex (Evan Whitten), a 13-year-old who is visiting his family in Mexico after the death of his father.
Finding Chupa gives Alex a new sense of purpose as he attempts to care for the cub. But an unscrupulous scientist, Richard Quinn (Christian Slater), will do anything to capture Chupa and prove his theories about the mythical chupacabras. So it falls on Alex to keep Chupa safe.
Read less AKA (2023) 122m Thriller, Action, Crime Alban Lenoir, Éric Cantona, Thibault de Montalembert Morgan S. Dalibert watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Brush up on your French or turn on the subtitles for AKA , an old-school action flick that may remind you of Man on Fire.
 Alban Lenoir co-wrote the film and stars as Adam Franco, an undercover French operative who infiltrates the crime organization of Victor Pastore (Eric Cantona).
Adam’s fighting prowess earns him a place as the bodyguard for Victor’s stepson, Jonathan (Noe Chabbat). Against his better judgment, Adam actually grows to care about Jonathan and bonds with him. And when Jonathan’s life is in danger, Adam puts his own life on the line to protect him, no matter what the cost.
Read less Guillermo del Toro's Pinocchio (2022) pg 117m Animation, Fantasy, Drama, Music Gregory Mann, Ewan McGregor, David Bradley Guillermo del Toro, Mark Gustafson watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Guillermo del Toro is no stranger to the world of the fantastical, which made the director a more-than-natural fit for a reimagining of Pinocchio.
 With Guillermo del Toro’s Pinocchio , the director goes all-in with stop motion animation for a story takes place in Italy during World War II. In a fit of despair, Geppetto (voiced by David Bradley) cuts down a tree grown in memory of his son who died in World War I, and uses the lumber to create a puppet he calls Pinocchio (Gregory Mann).
Soon after, the Wood Sprite brings Pinocchio to life and tasks Sebastian J. Cricket (Ewan McGregor) with being his guiding conscience. What follows is a story about discovering who you really are in a world full of near-infinite possibilities, both big and small.
Read less The Highwaymen (2019) r 133m Crime, Drama, Thriller Kevin Costner, Woody Harrelson, Kathy Bates John Lee Hancock watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Directed by John Lee Hancock, The Highwaymen stars Kevin Costner and Woody Harrelson as Frank Hamer and Maney Gault, a 1930s detective duo hell-bent on taking down two of America’s most notorious outlaws: Bonnie (Emily Brobst) and Clyde (Edward Bossert). When the criminals bust a band of cohorts out of a Texas prison, the governor calls upon a retired Hamer to bring down the malcontents once and for all. Initially hesitant to get involved, he changes his mind after a horrifying Missouri shootout involving the fugitives.
After recruiting his old partner, Gault, the two men go to work delivering justice where justice is needed most. A rich character study that gets into the heads of the Texas lawmen who wanted nothing more than to put two terrible people behind bars, The Highwaymen is a thrill from start to finish.
Read less Mowgli: Legend of the Jungle (2018) pg-13 105m Adventure, Drama Rohan Chand, Christian Bale, Andy Serkis Andy Serkis watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Directed by the king of CGI motion-capture, Andy Serkis , Mowgli: Legend of the Jungle does its best to stray from Disney’s interpretations of the classic Rudyard Kipling text. While a handful of the core story elements remain untouched, Serkis does opt for a more down-to-earth approach to Mowgli’s (Rohan Chand) coming-of-age tale.
Reared by wolves, Mowgli forges his way through the hierarchical animal kingdom of India, learning crucial lessons from his bear friend, Baloo (voiced and performed by Serkis), and a panther named Bagheera (Christian Bale). While Serkis’ vision tends to ebb and flow, it’s a rooted and ragged reimagining of the Kipling prose that mostly sticks the landing.
Read less Sand Castle (2017) r 113m War, Action, Drama Logan Marshall-Green, Nicholas Hoult, Henry Cavill Fernando Coimbra watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Roma (2018) r 135m Drama Yalitza Aparicio, Marina de Tavira, Diego Cortina Autrey Alfonso Cuarón watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Roma is writer-director Alfonso Cuarón’s homage to his childhood, heritage, and the many places and things that would inspire and invigorate one of the most renowned international auteurs of our time. Part autobiography, part narrative-fiction, the film follows the life and times of Cleo (Yalitza Aparicio), a nanny and servant to an upper-middle-class Mexican family.
When the patriarch Antonio (Fernando Grediaga) runs off with his mistress, Cleo is invited by Sofia (Marina de Tavira), the mother of the household, to take a vacation with her and her four children. But after discovering she’s pregnant, civil strife in 1970s Mexico City threatens everything for Cleo and those she cares for most. A brilliant piece of cinema that was nominated for 10 Oscars, Roma is not one to be missed.
Read less Calibre (2018) r 101m Thriller, Drama Jack Lowden, Martin McCann, Tony Curran Matt Palmer watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Pale Blue Eye (2022) 130m Mystery, Crime, Horror Christian Bale, Harry Melling, Lucy Boynton Scott Cooper watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Glass Onion: A Knives Out Mystery (2022) 140m Comedy, Crime, Mystery Daniel Craig, Edward Norton, Janelle Monáe Rian Johnson watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Roald Dahl's Matilda the Musical (2022) 117m Family, Comedy, Fantasy Alisha Weir, Emma Thompson, Lashana Lynch Matthew Warchus watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less White Noise (2022) 136m Comedy, Drama, Science Fiction Adam Driver, Greta Gerwig, Don Cheadle Noah Baumbach watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Troll (2022) 104m Fantasy, Action, Adventure, Thriller Ine Marie Wilmann, Kim S. Falck-Jørgensen, Mads Sjøgård Pettersen Roar Uthaug watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Wonder (2022) r 109m Mystery, Thriller, Drama Florence Pugh, Kíla Lord Cassidy, Tom Burke Sebastián Lelio watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Good Nurse (2022) r 121m Drama, Crime, Mystery Jessica Chastain, Eddie Redmayne, Noah Emmerich Tobias Lindholm watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Based on a real story, The Good Nurse follows Amy Loughren (Jessica Chastain), a working single mother whose career as a nurse could be jeopardized if her employers knew that she suffers from cardiomyopathy. Her new colleague, Charles Cullen (Eddie Redmayne), helps Amy hide her secret, and they become good friends. That’s why Amy doesn’t initially believe detectives Danny Baldwin (Nnamdi Asomugha) and Tim Braun (Noah Emmerich) when they tell her that Charles may be connected to several suspicious deaths. Unfortunately for Amy, the more she looks into it, the more she suspects that her friend is a serial killer.
Read less All Quiet on the Western Front (2022) r 147m War, Drama, Action Felix Kammerer, Albrecht Schuch, Aaron Hilmer Edward Berger watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Wendell & Wild (2022) pg-13 107m Animation, Comedy, Fantasy, Adventure Keegan-Michael Key, Jordan Peele, Angela Bassett Henry Selick watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Day Shift (2022) r 113m Action, Fantasy, Horror Jamie Foxx, Dave Franco, Natasha Liu Bordizzo J.J. Perry watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Persuasion (2022) pg 107m Romance, Drama, Comedy Dakota Johnson, Cosmo Jarvis, Henry Golding Carrie Cracknell watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Gray Man (2022) pg-13 128m Action, Thriller Ryan Gosling, Chris Evans, Ana de Armas Anthony Russo, Joe Russo watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Sea Beast (2022) pg 119m Animation, Adventure, Family, Fantasy Karl Urban, Zaris-Angel Hator, Jared Harris Chris Williams watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Tick, Tick... BOOM! (2021) pg-13 120m Drama Andrew Garfield, Alexandra Shipp, Robin de Jesús Lin-Manuel Miranda watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Lost Daughter (2021) r 122m Drama Olivia Colman, Dakota Johnson, Jessie Buckley Maggie Gyllenhaal watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Hustle (2022) r 117m Drama, Comedy Adam Sandler, Robert Duvall, Ben Foster Jeremiah Zagar watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Spiderhead (2022) r 107m Science Fiction, Thriller Chris Hemsworth, Miles Teller, Jurnee Smollett Joseph Kosinski watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Operation Mincemeat (2022) pg-13 128m War, History, Drama Colin Firth, Matthew Macfadyen, Johnny Flynn John Madden watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Cholmondeley (Matthew Macfadyen) dream up an inspired, daring, and improbable disinformation campaign all centered around a single dead man.
Read less The Adam Project (2022) pg-13 106m Science Fiction, Adventure, Comedy Ryan Reynolds, Zoe Saldana, Jennifer Garner Shawn Levy watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Don't Look Up (2021) r 143m Comedy, Drama, Science Fiction Jennifer Lawrence, Leonardo DiCaprio, Meryl Streep Adam McKay watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Power of the Dog (2021) r 127m Drama, Western Benedict Cumberbatch, Kirsten Dunst, Jesse Plemons Jane Campion watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Harder They Fall (2021) r 139m Western Jonathan Majors, Idris Elba, Regina King Jeymes Samuel watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Passing (2021) 99m Drama Tessa Thompson, Ruth Negga, André Holland Rebecca Hall watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Army of Thieves (2021) r 127m Action, Thriller, Comedy Matthias Schweighöfer, Nathalie Emmanuel, Ruby O. Fee Matthias Schweighöfer watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Best movies on Netflix Best shows on Amazon Prime Best shows on Hulu Best shows on HBO Best shows on Netflix Nightbooks (2021) pg 103m Fantasy, Family, Horror Winslow Fegley, Lidya Jewett, Krysten Ritter David Yarovesky watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Fear Street Trilogy (2021) r 107m Horror, Mystery Sadie Sink, Emily Rudd, Maya Hawke, Kiana Madeira Leigh Janiak watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Moxie (2021) 111m Comedy, Drama, Music Amy Poehler, Hadley Robinson, Lauren Tsai, Patrick Schwarzenegger, Nico Hiraga, Sydney Park, Josephine Langford Amy Poehler watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Ma Rainey's Black Bottom (2020) r 94m Drama, Music Viola Davis, Chadwick Boseman, Glynn Turman George C. Wolfe watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less I Care a Lot (2020) r 119m Comedy, Crime, Thriller Rosamund Pike, Peter Dinklage, Eiza González J Blakeson watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Mank (2020) r 132m Drama, History Gary Oldman, Amanda Seyfried, Lily Collins David Fincher watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Trial of the Chicago 7 (2020) r 130m History, Drama Eddie Redmayne, Sacha Baron Cohen, Joseph Gordon-Levitt Aaron Sorkin watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less To All the Boys I've Loved Before (2018) pg-13 100m Comedy, Romance Lana Condor, Noah Centineo, Janel Parrish Susan Johnson watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Enola Holmes (2020) pg-13 123m Mystery, Crime, Adventure Millie Bobby Brown, Henry Cavill, Sam Claflin Harry Bradbeer watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Old Guard (2020) r 125m Action, Fantasy Charlize Theron, KiKi Layne, Matthias Schoenaerts Gina Prince-Bythewood watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Two Popes (2019) pg-13 125m Drama, Comedy, History Anthony Hopkins, Jonathan Pryce, Juan Minujín Fernando Meirelles watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Always Be My Maybe (2019) pg-13 101m Romance, Comedy Ali Wong, Randall Park, James Saito Nahnatchka Khan watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The King (2019) r 140m Drama, History, War Timothée Chalamet, Joel Edgerton, Sean Harris David Michôd watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less The Irishman (2019) r 209m Crime, Drama, History Robert De Niro, Al Pacino, Joe Pesci Martin Scorsese watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Beasts of No Nation (2015) r 137m Drama, War Abraham Attah, Idris Elba, Emmanuel Nii Adom Quaye Cary Joji Fukunaga watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Okja (2017) tv-ma Adventure, Drama, Science Fiction, Action Tilda Swinton, Paul Dano, Seo-hyun Ahn, Jake Gyllenhaal, Devon Bostick, Lily Collins, Steven Yuen watch on Netflix watch on Netflix Read less Related Topics: Netflix | Hulu | Amazon Prime | More Streaming Services Editors' Recommendations 5 bad 2000s action movies that you still need to watch right now The 50 best movies on Netflix right now (November 2023) The best Hulu original series right now The best movies and shows on Shudder right now (November 2023) The 50 best anime on Hulu right now Netflix Streaming Services Movie images and data from: Entertainment Even with its extensive Black Stories collection, finding the best Black movies on Netflix takes a little work. Fortunately, we're always scouring the library to find the best movies available for your movie night, and if you'd like to celebrate Black stories, creators, and actors, this list is for you. Read on to find something to watch tonight! Looking for more films and shows that illustrate the Black experience? Check out our roundups of the best Black shows and movies to stream across all platforms.
Entertainment Exploring the thousands of titles on Netflix can be both exciting and overwhelming. Content of all types abounds, from dramas and comedies to reality shows and documentaries. There's even a top 10 list to help narrow your decision by letting you see the most popular Netflix shows.
Every week, Netflix releases a list of the 10 most-watched TV shows over a recent seven-day period. Below, we have listed the top 10 shows in the U.S. from November 5 to November 12, along with general information about each show, including genre, rating, cast, and synopsis.
Entertainment Netflix is one of the most popular streaming services in the world, with nearly 250 million subscribers. And just what do those people tend to watch? In particular, what is the most popular movie on Netflix? Each week, the streaming service releases a list of its 10 most-watched movies over the preceding seven days. Below, we've listed the top 10 movies in the U.S. from November 6 to November 12, along with general information about each film, such as genre, rating, cast, and synopsis.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
