Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Reviews Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Amazon Fire TV Omni QLED review: Amazon’s best screen yet By Caleb Denison Close $800.00 Excellent Fire TV experience Great smart home hub Adequate picture performance Fun features Lacks HDR punch Price-to-picture performance ratio is off One year after the first Amazon TVs were released comes the Amazon Fire TV Omni QLED TV. New for this year are quantum dots for better color, full array local dimming backlight control for better contrast, and an optical room sensor that enables a few clever tricks, including an “Ambient Experience” and an auto-off/on feature.
Video review Series and size details Effortless navigation Whole-home hub Art mode Picture Quality Gaming Sound quality Bottom line More features? Yes. More money? A little. More Performance? Yes, but don’t get too excited just yet. Let’s figure out if the new Amazon Fire TV Omni QLED might be the right TV choice for you.
Best 70-inch TV deals: Get a big screen for sports for $450 Best Samsung TV deals: Save on QLED and OLED TVs Best Prime Day TV deals: 4K TVs, 8K TVs, QLED TVs, and OLED TVs Video review Series and size details Screen Size Model Number MSRP 65-inch QL65F601A 75-inch QL75F601A Effortless navigation If you’re not familiar with Amazon’s branded line of TVs already, just imagine the Amazon Fire TV interface you find in its streaming sticks and the Fire TV cube , but baked right into a TV — similar to how we see Roku TV and Google TV baked into TCL and Hisense TVs. Amazon has had Fire TV baked into sets before, too. But Omni is a little different. It’s Amazon through and through, complete with the Smile logo.
Amazon’s voice assistant is really at the heart of the Omni QLED.
One of the best things about the Fire TV Omni QLED is that it runs Fire TV OS effortlessly. There’s virtually no lag between clicking a button on the remote and the corresponding action on the TV. I like a smart TV interface that moves as quickly as I can click a remote, and the Fire TV Omni QLED absolutely does that. Apps load quickly, too. And as voice assistants go, Amazon’s Alexa can only be matched by the Google Assistant.
 Everything else takes a back seat, and, yes, that includes Siri.
In fact, Amazon’s voice assistant really is at the heart of the Omni QLED and its appeal. Anything you can do with an Amazon Echo speaker, you can do with this TV, sure. But the functionality keeps going from there. For instance: You can control other devices with the TV using voice control because it includes IR blaster, and it utilizes HDMI CEC effectively. Just place the IR blaster in sight of your other home entertainment equipment and you can control an A/V receiver, cable box, Blu-ray player, you name it — a lot like the new Fire TV cube , actually.
Also central to the Fire TV OS experience is the manner in which it is designed to house all of your content, be it broadcast TV, cable or satellite TV, paid and free streaming TV — all of it — all in one place. Amazon puts everything you want on its home screen and tries to make it as easy as possible to get to what you want to watch.
Whole-home hub Now think of Amazon’s ecosystem outside of home entertainment. Your Ring security cameras , for instance, are instantly visible on a Fire TV device. (Ring is, of course, owned by Amazon.) Want to control your smart home thermostat ? (Amazon owns one of those, too.) Just grab your remote. Or don’t, you can have the TV always listen for you to give the command if you’re comfortable with that. If you aren’t, though, a switch on the TV disables the built-in microphone.
It’s designed to be a powerful smart home hub, not just an entertainment hub.
And if you add a webcam , you can use the TV for video calls. You get the idea. It’s designed to be a powerful smart home hub, not just an entertainment hub.
Art mode One notable new addition this year is the ambient mode (which Amazon calls Ambient Experience) and the automatic on/off features I mentioned earlier. There also are widgets available in the art mode as well. You can have daily reminders, calendar entries, sticky notes, weather updates, or news headlines pinned to the bottom of the art mode screen for at-a-glance information. I think this ambient mode probably will play well with customers, though it’s really just a screensaver until you factor in the widgets, which are handy to have. The Fire TV Omni QLED doesn’t pull off art mode as convincingly as, say, Samsung’s The Frame TV.
Frankly, it’s the auto-off/on feature that integrates with the art mode that I like best. This is probably the best use of a room sensor I’ve seen yet and one that will cut down on wasted electricity use. The TV will shut down the screen and sit in power-saving mode when it detects nobody is in the room (and/or when the lights have been turned off, if you choose that option), and then pop back into art mode when someone walks into view.
Of course, that sensor isn’t just for figuring out whether the room is occupied or vacant, it’s also what allows Amazon to slap the Dolby Vision IQ and HDR10 Adaptive badges on the box. These are picture modes that are meant to adjust the brightness curve based on how much light is in your room — brighter in a bright room, and slightly easier on the eyes in dimmer conditions. This is a great feature for really bright TVs, but as I’ll soon explain, it’s not all that helpful for the Fire TV Omni QLED.
Picture Quality For anyone who follows TVs a bit, you may be interested to know that I’m pretty sure the Amazon Fire TV Omni QLED basically is a TCL 5-Series running Amazon Fire TV OS. It looks like the 5-Series, with a voice-recognition and IR receiver block down below the metal strip bezel along the bottom edge, TCL-style feet, and even the stamped metal backing. But it’s really the measurements that have me convinced this is equivalent to the 2021 TCL 5-Series, which also is an HDR QLED TV.
Brightness Peak brightness numbers of around 575 nits is a hard sell at this price.
Using Calman Ultimate software, a Murideo Seven G pattern generator, and a C6 Colorimeter profiled to an i1 Pro 2 Spectro, I measured peak brightness in SDR and HDR at about 575 nits. That’s the brightest I could get the TV to produce in multiple picture preset modes. Amazon claims the TV has 80 local dimming zones for this 65-inch model, and while I don’t have any reason to doubt this claim, it was actually difficult to verify as counting the zones was difficult — the TV hides its backlight behavior pretty well, even off-angle, which is a testament to excellent backlight and blooming control.
Image used with permission by copyright holder While I’m fairly impressed with the local dimming and relatively decent black levels and blooming control that comes with it on this TV, a peak brightness number of around 575 nits is a hard sell at this price. To put things in perspective, the Hisense U7H we recently tested — which retails for the same price as the Omni QLED here — puts out right around 1,000 nits peak, which is substantially brighter. And when we talk about brightness, I’m not just talking about the ability to look good in a bright room — high peak brightness is really important for making HDR pop. To get a high-contrast image with sparkling highlights and bright colors, you need a bit more oomph. The TCL 5-Series also claims to be an HDR TV and has similar performance numbers, but it’s also considerably less expensive.
Color When it comes to color performance, I measured some fairly significant errors in terms of accuracy.
Again , if this TV cost about the same as the TCL 5-Series — there’s a $250 difference at the 65-inch size and $300 at 75 inches — I’d go a bit easier on it for not having very good color accuracy. Don’t misconstrue these accuracy claims to mean the TV has poor-looking color, though. I don’t think you’ll look at this TV and think, “Hey, the color looks off on this TV.” Not at all. In fact, most of the time I found the color output to be well within acceptable parameters. But, again, it’s worth noting that, for the price, the Hisense U7H is more color accurate out of the box.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Gaming The Omni QLED isn’t as chock full of advanced gaming-friendly features as some competing models like the Hisense U7H. The Fire TV Omni QLED maxes out at 4K 60Hz and claims to support variable refresh rate (VRR), though I’ve not been able to verify that in my testing. The TV also supports an auto-low-latency mode, though I’ve yet to see that engage in an obvious way while testing with my Xbox Series X.
 To be clear, the Fire TV Omni is quite sufficient for most gaming needs. It just doesn’t have the aggressive a feature set that tends to appeal to gaming enthusiasts, like 4K 120Hz with VRR, or Freesync/G-Sync certification, which you might want to keep in mind given the context of what you get for the price.
That extends to networking, too. While there’s an Ethernet port on board, no surprise there. But like the new Fire TV Cube, it’s a 10/100 connection and not the much faster Gigabit Ethernet. While that’s far from a deal-breaker, it’s disappointing because faster is better. It’s worth pointing out, though, that the TV does support Wi-Fi 6 for high-speed wireless throughput.
Sound quality As for sound quality? Actually, this TV’s got a little thumpy kick to it! Don’t count on it for full-bodied cinematic sound, but I’ve definitely heard worse from TVs in this price range.
I’m not sure that this TV’s onboard sound will be a big consideration for buyers in the future, though, because I believe Amazon’s next move in home entertainment will be to produce its own soundbars.
In fact, I think everything about the Fire TV Omni QLED screams, ”Let’s out- Roku Roku !” And you know what? Amazon could pull that off. Just add a soundbar, some wireless surround speakers, and a subwoofer — say, something with the word “Echo” in the name — and the next thing you know, you have a full Amazon-branded home theater system. As I imagine them, those wireless speakers could also be used as part of a whole-home wireless music solution as well.
Bottom line The Fire TV Omni QLED is something of a trojan horse, I think. It’s a decent-quality TV that puts an excellent Amazon experience front and center. If you buy this TV, it’s because you want a mid-level performance TV with the best Amazon Fire TV experience baked in, along with all the possibilities that will bring in the future.
But you know what else you could do? Buy the Hisense U7H and add a Fire TV Cube. Sure, the combo would run you about $130 more than just purchasing this TV, but it would give you all the Amazon goodness you want and combine it with the high-performance picture quality of the Hisense.
That seems like the right play to me, but if you prefer simplicity and your picture quality needs aren’t as persnickety, the Fire TV Omni QLED is sure to make you thrilled to be that much more ingrained in the Amazon entertainment ecosystem.
Editors' Recommendations The best Amazon Fire TV device you should buy in 2023 Best QLED TV deals: Get a 50-inch QLED TV for $250 and more Best 75-inch TV deals: Get a large screen for under $500 Best streaming devices for 2023: Apple TV, Roku, and more Best QLED TVs for 2023: from TCL, Samsung, Hisense, and more Amazon Product Reviews TV Reviews Audio / Video At Amazon's fall event, it announced a new Fire TV soundbar, a new Fire TV Stick 4K, and a Fire TV Stick 4K Max with support for Wi-Fi 6E.
The Fire TV Soundbar is available starting today for $120 in the U.S. and Canada, and available for preorder in Mexico. It's expected to ship within a week. It's been designed as an easy-to-set-up companion speaker for all Fire TV devices and Fire TVs with Bluetooth, immersive sound, crisper dialog, and improved bass, according to the company, and has three selectable EQ modes: movies, music, and dialogue.
Audio / Video Amazon is giving six months of free access to MGM+ in conjunction with the purchase of a new Fire TV. The announcement came as part of Amazon's massive annual device event at HQ2 in Arlington, Virginia. And that means low-cost sticks, as well as more expensive televisions running Amazon Fire TV.
Unsurprisingly, Amazon also used the event to announce a new Fire TV Stick 4K, Fire TV Stick 4K Max, and Fire TV Soundbar. Amazon announced in March 2023 that more than 200 million Fire TV devices had been sold worldwide, and that number is poised to continue growing strongly.
Audio / Video The TCL Q6 as seen in a promotional photo. TCL / TCL The cool thing about modern TVs is that they come in all sorts of sizes and flavors. To that end, TCL has released pricing on its Amazon Fire TV-powered Q and S Class televisions (as we continue to wait on the QD-Mini LED fare).
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
