Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best Buy TV deals: Save on QLED TVs, OLED TVs, and 8K TVs By Andrew Morrisey Close Best Buy is one of the largest electronics retailers, and it never has a shortage of great TVs to choose from if you’re shopping for your home theater. Best Buy is also a great place to shop if you’re hoping to land a deal, as it often has some of the best TVs discounted, and almost always has great alternatives on sale. That’s certainly true right now, as there are a lot of great TV deals to choose from at Best Buy. We’ve rounded them all up, so whether you’re looking for something from one of the best TV brands or something more budget-minded, read onward for more details.
TCL 4-Series 58-inch 4K Smart Roku TV — $300, was $320 LG UQ75 55-inch LED 4K Smart TV — $370, was $400 TCL Class S4 65-inch 4K LED Smart TV — $430, was $530 Sony X77L 50-inch 4K LED Google TV — $500, was $540 Hisense Class U8 55-inch 4K MiniLED ULED Google TV — $750, was $1,300 Samsung QN700B 55-inch QLED 8K Smart TV — $1,000, was $1,600 Samsung Q80C 65-inch 4K QLED Smart TV — $1,400, was $1,500 LG C3 Series 65-inch OLED 4K Smart TV — $2,000, was $2,500 Samsung QN85C 85-inch 4K Smart Tizen TV — $2,800, was $3,800 TCL 4-Series 58-inch 4K Smart Roku TV — $300, was $320 Image used with permission by copyright holder If you’re shopping on a budget but still want to ensure a good picture and some Smart TV features, the TCL 4-Series 4K Roku TV is the one for you. It has 4K resolution that produces lifelike images and graphics and an LED display that offers superior brightness, high color contrast and good light uniformity. It will work well with any room, as its 58-inch size is large enough to see from a decent distance without taking too much space in a smaller room. This is also a good TV to break in with the best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime, Max, and more , as it has access to streaming services built right into its interface.
LG UQ75 55-inch LED 4K Smart TV — $370, was $400 LG The LG UQ75 Smart TV is one of the best value 4K TVs available. Despite its modest price point it’s capable of producing a stunning, immersive 4K image. It has an AI processor that enhances picture and sound quality, and webOS 22 allows you to customizing your viewing experience with separate accounts and personalized recommendations for every member of your family. It has a game optimizer and dashboard that quickly adjusts settings for gamers, and access to streaming platforms such as Netflix, Prime Video, Apple TV, Disney+, HBO Max, and many others is built right into the TV’s software. This makes a great TV for budget-minded shoppers who still want to push their digital content experience into deeper levels of immersion.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
TCL Class S4 65-inch 4K LED Smart TV — $430, was $530 Image used with permission by copyright holder Value is front and center with the TCL 65-inch Class S4 4K LED Smart TV, as it’s a nice balance of affordability and features. It delivers stunning 4K picture quality with four times the resolution of Full HD, as well as endless entertainment with easy access to your favorite streaming services.
 Google Chromecast is built right into the TV, allowing you to easily stream movies, shows and photos from your Android or iOS device. It also has 3 HDMI inputs, which makes it great for gamers who need to connect several consoles, or for anybody looking to connect some great peripheral equipment to their home theater.
Sony X77L 50-inch 4K LED Google TV — $500, was $540 Sony Sony is always amongst the best TV brands it seems, and this 50-inch 4K LED Smart TV is a contributor that that esteem. It produces a beautiful 4K picture and even has exclusive features PlayStation 5.
 Because it’s a Google TV , it’s able to take streaming to the next level with more than 700,000 movies and TV episodes, as well as live TV. It’s capable of upscaling everything you watch into the modern clarity of 4K , and it utilizes Ask Google for voice commands that can help you find movies, stream apps, play music, and control the TV.
Hisense Class U8 55-inch 4K MiniLED ULED Google TV — $750, was $1,300 Image used with permission by copyright holder This Hisense 55-inch 4K Smart TV is full of great imagery and full of smarts. It features Quantum ULED picture technology, which is proprietary to Hisense and boosts color, contrast, brightness, and motion. This is patented hardware and software technology, and it delivers a unique picture that you can only get with a Hisense TV. It has Dolby Vision and Dolby Atmos technologies as well, bringing a cinema-like image to your home theater. It has a voice remote that makes controlling the TV easy, allowing you to open apps, turn the volume up or down, and search for your favorite shows, among other things. You can even go remoteness in many cases, as the Hisense U6H 4K TV is compatible with Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa for voice commands.
Samsung QN700B 55-inch QLED 8K Smart TV — $1,000, was $1,600 Samsung If 4K resolution isn’t enough for you, you can future-proof your home theater with the Samsung QN700B 55-inch QLED 8K Smart TV. You’ll be getting a screen size that can fit well into most rooms and picture quality that’s hard to beat. This TV utilizes a Neural Quantum Processor to deliver Samsung’s most impressive picture yet, and while it’s often seen as a tossup between QLED and OLED for the best picture technology, QLED fits nicely with this 8K TV. It offers 33 million pixels and AI-based processing that upscales and analyzes everything you watch into the clarity of 8K. This means that while most modern content is made in Full HD or 4K , with this TV you’ll be able to watch everything with the immersion and resolution 8K offers.
Samsung Q80C 65-inch 4K QLED Smart TV — $1,400, was $1,500 Samsung As owners of any one of the best QLED TVs can attest, QLED technology produces one of the best 4K images available on the market right now. It utilizes dual LEDs and Quantum Dot color to create lifelike images, and an overall immersive home theater experience. This Samsung 65-inch QLED 4K Smart TV does all of that and more, as it’s even able to upscale older content into modern 4K clarity. Picture quality is heightened with HDR10+ technology, and Smart TV capabilities include compatibility with voice assistants and easy access to built-in streaming services.
LG C3 Series 65-inch OLED 4K Smart TV — $2,000, was $2,500 LG QLED and OLED TVs are the cream of the crop when it comes to modern television picture quality, with OLED TVs able create stunning images by way of self-lit pixels. With this LG 65-inch 4K Smart TV, OLED brings all of your favorite content to life with high color accuracy, perfect contrast, wide viewing angles, and a picture that’s virtually blur-free. You can easily connect to online content with built-in streaming services like Netflix and Disney+, among others, and additional smart features include voice assistant compability and a brightness booster that gives you a more luminous picture and higher contrast in brighter viewing environments.
Samsung QN85C 85-inch 4K Smart Tizen TV — $2,800, was $3,800 Samsung This Samsung 85-inch Smart Tizen TV is a good option if you’re looking to go big with your home theater. There’s few TVs larger than this 85-inch model, and its massive screen size doesn’t cut corners when it comes to quality. It has 4K upscaling technology and a Motion Xcelerator Turbo+ feature that gamers will love. And, despite its larger screen size, this TV manages a slimg profile with Samsung’s NeoSlim Design. It also has a remote control with a small solar panel for charging, which also includes a built-in microphone for use with your favorite voice assistant.
Editors' Recommendations Best Black Friday AirPods Deals: Get Apple’s earbuds for $59 Amazon Fire TV Black Friday deals: TVs, Fire Sticks, and more The best 70-inch TV Black Friday deals from LG, Samsung, and more Best Buy Black Friday TV deals: Save on LG, Samsung, Sony, and more The best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals right now Deals Cheapest Prices TV Audio / Video If you've been thinking about buying new headphones or earbuds, the good news is that you already have access to massive discounts through early Black Friday deals from retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart. There's a lot of options to choose from, ranging from budget models to high-end devices, so to help with your decision, we've rounded up the best Black Black Friday headphone and earbud deals that you can shop right now. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase though, as we're not sure how much time is remaining for these offers. If you see a bargain that you like, we recommended that you push through with the transaction as soon as you can.
Best Black Friday headphone deals For shoppers who have been thinking about taking advantage of headphone deals, don't let the discounts of Black Friday end without buying a new pair. You may want to check out our roundup of the best headphones for recommendations on what to purchase, as well as our headphone buying guide to figure out the features that will be important to you. There are so many headphones on sale across the different retailers, but we've gathered our favorite offers below to try to help you narrow down your choices. Some of our favorite are JBL and Beats Black Friday deals. It won't be easy, but this is a good place to start as any.
Mobile Google's popular line of Pixel devices includes smartphones, tablets, smartwatches, and wireless earbuds -- and they're all available with eye-catching discounts in this year's Black Friday deals. if you've had an eye on any one of them, you should take advantage of the offers that retailers have rolled out for the shopping holiday, and you need to act fast because stocks will run out quickly due to high demand. To help you out, we've rounded up our favorite Google Pixel Black Friday deals below.
Google Pixel Watch Black Friday deals The Google Pixel Watch 2 is already out, which means the Google Pixel Watch is a prime candidate for a discount on Black Friday. It's still a perfectly capable smartwatch though, even with the launch of its successor, as it runs on Google's Wear OS for access to a wide range of apps and health-monitoring features on your wrist. You need to push through with your purchase as soon as possible though, as stocks are already probably running low on most Black Friday smartwatch deals.
Web Best Buy is pulling out the big guns this Black Friday to compete with Amazon Black Friday deals, and we're seeing a lot of great deals across the board, whether you want a laptop, a vacuum cleaner, or a fitness tracker. Of course, there are a lot of deals to go through, so we've done our best to collect some of our favorite ones below so that you don't have to. We'll also be updating this page as more and better deals come along, so be sure to check back regularly. Also, be sure to check out the Walmart Black Friday sale, as it's also going all out in the hopes of competing with Amazon.
Top 3 Best Buy Black Friday Deals Nest Hub -- $60, was $100 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
