Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? The best OLED TVs for 2023: from LG, Sony, and Samsung By Michael Bizzaco and Simon Cohen Close If you’re a connoisseur of great picture quality, or you simply want your new TV to deliver rich colors and incredible contrast, you should be looking at OLEDs. For years now, LG has been the go-to manufacturer of OLED TVs and OLED displays, and even if you buy a Samsung or Sony OLED , chances are that the screen is actually made by LG Display (the company’s panel division). But what exactly makes an OLED so great, you may be asking? The biggest pro these sets have over QLEDs and traditional LEDs is that OLEDs don’t have LED backlights.
This is because an OLED (organic light-emitting diode) panel is made up of millions of self-emissive pixels that can individually be toggled on and off, which is how these TVs are able to achieve the kind of black levels that only plasma sets once rivaled. If you like what you’re reading so far, we have no doubt you’ll enjoy the best OLEDs of 2023 roundup we’ve compiled below. We’ve also had the honor of testing many of these TVs ourselves and have provided links to our full reviews when applicable.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More More More LG LG C3 Series OLED The best OLED overall Excellent colors and contrast Impressive brightness Great HDR performance webOS 23 isn't the easiest to navigate Man, it was a tough call for the 2023 “Best Overall OLED” laurel, but after weighing the options and getting into the nitty-gritty of specs and cost, we believe the best OLED for most folks is undoubtedly the LG C3. Available in 42-, 48-, 55-, 65-, 77-, and 83-inch sizes, the LG C3 delivers an amazing picture that reaches some pretty impressive peak brightness levels, but more importantly, when it comes to both HDR and SDR performance, the C3’s color and contrast capabilities are simply through the roof.
As far as digital hearts and lungs go, the C3 is powered by LG’s revamped a9 AI Processor Gen6 (also found on the LG G3), which acts as the catalyst for features like AI Super Upscaling 4K and AI Picture Pro. The C3 also includes LG’s latest take on its smart TV platform, webOS 23, for all your Netflix and Disney+ streaming needs. The UI is still a bit cluttered (something we’ve found irksome for a few years now), but distracting advertisements are easy to forgive when your OLED dishes out 4K at 120Hz across all four HDMI 2.1 inputs.
What’s the difference between the LG C3 and the premium G3 model below? The latter employs Micro Lens Array technology as part of its engineering, which allows the G3 to achieve higher peak brightness levels than the C3. Oh, and the G3 is meant to be hung on a wall (it comes with an LG wall mount), so it doesn’t come with a stand, although you can purchase one separately.
Like any OLED TV, the LG C3 is going to look its best in dark rooms, but if your viewing space is troubled by ambient lighting, the C3 does an excellent job at handling reflections and looks great from a number of vantage points throughout a larger room.
More Zeke Jones / Digital Trends LG G3 Series OLED The runner-up Excellent overall brightness Dazzling contrast Clean, sharp images Good motion handling Excellent for gamers Disappointing sound Frustratingly cluttered UI You know your premium TV means business when it’s too good to come with a stand. The terrific LG G3 OLED comes in 55-, 65-, 77-, and 83-inch sizes, and each of these large displays comes with a proprietary wall mount that gets the G3 nice and close to your living room wall. Why, you may ask? Because LG intends for this TV to be the aesthetic attention-grabber in your home (try displaying some artwork or family photos on the G3 screen), and we’re all about that.
The G3 is a next-gen reworking of the LG G2, and the latest version of the OLED is equipped with Micro Lens Array (MLA) technology, giving the G3 a significant boost in the brightness department. This year’s model also ups the processing game with the introduction of LG’s revamped a9 AI Processor Gen6, working in unison with LG’s Brightness Booster Max to deliver even sharper visuals.
OLEDs aren’t exactly known for arresting brightness, but the LG G3 is happy to challenge that preconception. That MLA backbone allows the G3 to achieve some of the best brightness levels of any TV for 2023, and that’s quite the achievement for a display that features no LEDs whatsoever.
The G3 also has four HDMI 2.1 inputs that max out at 4K at 120Hz. There’s support for pretty much all next-gen gaming must-haves, like VRR (variable refresh rate) and AMD FreeSync, and the TV handles HDR content like a champ. Plus, both the LG G3 and C3 models received DTS support this year, making both sets solid sound performers too (although you’ll always be better off with a soundbar or speaker system ).
More Zeke Jones/Digital Trends Samsung S95C QD-OLED The best QD-OLED Incredibly bright colors Perfect black levels Pristine overall picture Great upscaling Awesome for gaming Mediocre sound No Dolby Vision support The Samsung S95C rolls out the red carpet for another generation of Samsung’s amazing QD-OLED technology. For those unaware, this display combines the best parts of QLED lighting and quantum dots with the self-emissive pixels of an OLED panel. The end result? A vibrant picture with excellent color saturation and deep black levels — a videophile’s dream. Now as far as side-by-side comparisons go, the S95C is pretty close to the S95B, the 2022 version of the Samsung QD-OLED, but there are a few key differences.
For one, the S95C is now able to get up to 144Hz with all the appropriate PC connections. If you’re the kind of person who loves fast-action gameplay, the S95C has got you covered. Movie die-hards will still be capped at 120Hz motion, but Samsung’s Motion Xcelerator Turbo Pro returns for 2023, delivering some of the best 4K visuals for all your favorite action flicks and sporting events. That’s on top of Samsung’s Neural Quantum Processor for all your 4K upscaling needs, and the amazing Q-Symphony 3.0, which lets you pair compatible Samsung soundbars with the S95C speakers for an enhanced audio experience.
This time around, the S95C screen also delivers higher peak brightness than the S95B, and all of the TV’s inputs are housed on the Slim One Connect. You’ll also be able to stream all your favorite movies and TV shows through Samsung’s Tizen-powered Smart Hub, and access your many digitized Xbox games using Samsung Gaming Hub.
It might be a little more expensive than the competition, but the Samsung S95C is one of the best TVs you’ll have ever purchased — trust us.
More Dan Baker / Digital Trends Sony A95K QD-OLED The best OLED for videophiles Next-level color purity High color brightness Wide color gamut Perfect black levels Great sound Expensive Holy TV, the Sony A95K is one for the history books. What we've got here is something a little outside the box in terms of overall design. Traditionally, OLED panels contain nothing outside of self-emissive pixels for display tech, relegating brightness, colors, and contrast to the individual on/off control of each cell. But in 2022, both Sony and Samsung dazzled the TV world with an all-new kind of TV: the QD-OLED.
Sony's take on this state-of-the-art display is the impressive Bravia A95K. At the surface, we're working with an OLED screen, and one that achieves some of the most accurate colors and contrast we've ever seen in our many years of reviewing TVs. Then, when you factor in the fine-tuning, upscaling, and calibration delivered by the Cognitive XR Processor, you end up with a TV that delivers up to 200% more color brightness when compared to a traditional OLED set -- talk about accolades! The A95K is also equipped with four HDMI inputs, two of which can handle 4K/120Hz, along with G-Sync, Free-Sync, and VRR support, making this an ideal TV for gamers and movie-lovers. And when we mentioned color brightness, the true way to put the A95K to the test is by watching something in HDR. Fortunately, this monster of a TV supports Dolby Vision, IMAX Enhanced, and Netflix Adaptive Calibrated Mode, ensuring that all your favorite HDR movies and shows look as vibrant and lifelike as possible.
You'll also be able to connect to your favorite streaming apps with the A95K's intelligent Google TV user interface, which even allows you to cast content from your mobile device to the TV.
While the price may be a bit out of reach for some, it's hard to come by a TV that does all the amazing things that the A95K is capable of.
More Sony Sony XR A80K OLED Another great Sony OLED Punchy and colorful picture Google TV is better than ever Solid HDR performance Only has two full-bandwidth HDMI ports Better OLEDs don't cost much more We’re suckers for a solid Sony TV, but that’s not to say we’re not super discerning either. And trust us, vetting and testing was a little easier when LG was the only OLED manufacturer in town. But now that both Sony and Samsung are producing OLEDs and QD-OLEDs of their own, it’s harder to hail specific models for picture and performance achievements, mostly because a lot of these OLEDs are all pretty great. But when criteria boils down to overall bang for your buck, we think the Sony XR A80K is one of the best OLED options.
Yes, there’s already a new version of this TV in stores and online (the Sony XR A80L), but it’s pretty much the same as the A80K as far as picture quality goes, save for a little boost in the brightness department. And because the A80K is a 2022 model, it’s a bit cheaper than the A80L. If nitpicking over nits isn’t important to you, we think that most viewers will be more than happy with the picture this Sony OLED delivers, thanks to returning tech like Sony’s Cognitive Processor XR and four full-bandwidth HDMI 2.1 inputs.
The A80K also delivers impressive HDR performance and looks particularly great when watched in a dark room (where any OLED looks its best). Unfortunately, the A80K doesn’t reach the same peak brightness levels as models like the LG C3 or the Samsung S95C, which means it won’t look as sharp and clear when viewed in a room with a lot of wretched sunlight. The A80K is also missing AMD FreeSync support, which is a bummer for all us PlayStation 5, Xbox X/S, and PC gamers.
But if you’re looking for an awesome OLED TV that looks great in most situations, and just so happens to run our favorite smart TV platform, Google TV, the Sony XR A80K should be high up on your list of OLED considerations.
Riley Young/Digital Trends / Digital Trends Sony XR A90J OLED Also consider Brightest OLED TV Exceptional HDR performance Perfect black levels Stunning detail VRR still missing As it currently stands, one of the best overall TVs on the market is the Sony A95K Series (covered above), a QD-OLED that combines an OLED panel with a layer of quantum dots (hence the "QD") to deliver a vibrant and contrast-deep picture. But not everyone has the $4,000-plus dollars on hand to nab an A95K, which makes the A90J Series another solid choice from Sony.
OLED TVs don't usually get called out for brightness, but the A90J manages to receive some attention for this category. How bright? Try 1,300 nits in its Vivid mode. That's on top of Sony's Cognitive Processor XR, a picture engine that attempts to deliver images that match the way our brains perceive the world for a greater sense of realism. This approach is very effective, and with some judicious tweaking of the A90J's Custom mode, you end up with an image that is simply the best you can get from an OLED TV — or, really, any TV short of Sony's own $30,000 professional mastering monitor.
Now, if you want to play games using the A90J, all of that picture goodness applies just as much to your favorite titles — they'll look stunning. But without support for Nvidia's G-Sync or AMD's FreeSync Premium, the LG C2 or C1 Series is still a better choice for gamers.
There are far too many other features to get into here, like the excellent Google TV interface, Sony's innovative three-way stand, or the sleek aluminum voice remote, but our full review should more than answer the question of whether or not the Bravia XR A90J 's high price is worth it. Hint: it is.
More Frequently Asked Questions OLED stands for organic light-emitting diode , and its signature characteristic is that each pixel on the screen of an OLED TV emits its own light and color and can be turned completely off to deliver true black color.
Be sure to check out our QLED versus OLED explainer.
 In general, OLED TVs produce a higher-quality image than QLED TVs , but there are caveats. QLED TVs get brighter, and so they’re the better choice for brightly-lit rooms.
Trick question! OLED is a description of a kind of TV display, whereas 4K refers to a TV’s native resolution. Like LED and QLED TVs, you can buy 4K and even 8K OLED TVs — the choice is yours.
f you’re a gamer, make sure your OLED TV supports HDMI 2.1 at the least, and in an ideal world, it should have Nvidia G-Sync and AMD FreeSync, too. If you’re a cinephile or video maven, find a model with the best picture processing.
We think OLED TVs still currently produce the best overall image quality, but upcoming new formats such as QD-OLED , microLED and mini-LED-based QLED TVs are starting to threaten OLED TV’s crown.
Yes, all OLED TVs are compatible with at least HDR10 — the most common HDR format — while most offer support for HLG and Dolby Vision, too.
For the vast majority of buyers, burn-in will not be a problem, but it can happen. When it occurs, it’s usually because someone has set their OLED TV to show a TV channel or a video game that has on-screen graphics that don’t move much or at all and left it there for many hours each day, for many days in a row.
Right now, all OLED TV panels are produced by LG Display, and we believe that LG Electronics makes the best overall OLED TV: the G2 Gallery Series. That said, Sony’s image processing is slightly better, so if image perfection is your main yardstick, a Sony OLED TV is a great way to go.
Yes. OLED TVs are definitely expensive when compared to some other options, but their black levels, contrast, and color make for an awesome viewing experience.
Editors' Recommendations The best Sony TV Black Friday deals on 4K TVs, 8K TVs, and OLED TVs Best Buy Black Friday TV deals: Save on LG, Samsung, Sony, and more Best Buy is almost giving away this 55-inch QLED TV today The best OLED TV Black Friday deals from Samsung, Sony, and LG Usually $1800, this Samsung 70-inch QLED TV is discounted to $880 Best Products LG Sony TV Audio / Video Walmart's Black Friday deals for this year have already started, which is great news for those who want a head start on their shopping. If you were planning to get a new TV, check out this offer -- a $52 discount for the 55-inch Samsung TU690T 4K TV, which lowers its price to just $298 from $350 originally. There's no point in waiting for after Thanksgiving if you can already get this 4K TV for less than $300 right now, so proceed with the purchase as soon as possible if you're interested.
Why you should buy the 55-inch Samsung TU690T 4K TV The Samsung TU690T 4K TV is an excellent display for watching streaming shows, which you can access through the Tizen OS. As a smart TV, like all of the best TVs, not only does it support all of the popular streaming services, but it will also let you download and use a wide variety of apps such as video games and workout guides. You also have the option of connecting streaming devices to the TV's HDMI port, if you're more comfortable with other platforms like Apple TV and Roku.
Audio / Video There's no need to wait for the chance to upgrade your home theater setup into your personal cinema, as Best Buy's early Black Friday deals include an $800 discount on the 85-inch Sony Bravia XR X90L 4K TV. From its original price of $2,800, it's available for $2,000 -- it's still not what you'd call affordable, but it's definitely a worthwhile purchase. It's unclear if the bargain will remain online through the shopping holiday, but since there's a chance that stocks sell out, we're urging you to push through with the transaction as soon as possible.
Why you should buy the 85-inch Sony Bravia XR X90L 4K TV The Sony Bravia XR X90L 4K TV is in our list of the best TVs because of the solid value that its provides. With an 85-inch display featuring 4K Ultra HD resolution for sharp details, Sony's Cognitive Processor XR that enables lifelike picture quality, and Dolby Vision that further elevates images with deeper blacks and vibrant colors, your eyes will be in for a treat. You may have to check out our guide on what size TV to buy to make sure that you have enough space for the Sony Bravia XR X90L 4K TV, but once you've confirmed, you won't be running out of things to watch on this 85-inch screen as it's powered by Google TV, so you'll be able to access all of the popular streaming services.
Audio / Video It's 2023 -- time to upgrade to an OLED TV. OLED technology gives you darker blacks, richer colors, and more accurate lighting than any other TV technology. While you're browsing for the best OLED TV deals, don't discount the best OLED TVs of 2023 just because you assume they're too expensive. In fact, our favorite OLED TV of the year has a fantastic discount today.
That's right, the best OLED TV out there, the LG C3, is currently on the sale at Best Buy. The 77-inch LG C3 is normally $3,200, but right now it's down to just $$2,500, a nice $700 discount that shouldn't be ignored. OLED TVs of this size don't get much cheaper than this, so you might as well go for a top shelf product. If you're not sure yet, keep reading as why dive into what makes the LG C3 the best OLED TV out there for your money. But make sure to grab this TV before the deal ends.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
