Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Deals Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best QLED TV deals: Get a 50-inch QLED TV for $250 and more By Andrew Morrisey Close Upgrade your home theater setup by buying from QLED TV deals, which will give you incredible brightness and accurate colors with the help of a layer of quantum dots. If you’re interested in buying a QLED TV , the good news is that there are discounts that you can shop right now, but only if you hurry. We’ve listed our top picks here to help you make a decision, but because of the popularity of QLED TVs, we don’t think stocks will last long. If you see an offer from these TV deals that you like, you better push through with the purchase immediately.
TCL 50-inch Q5 4K QLED TV — $250, was $400 Hisense 55-inch U6 Series 4K QLED TV — $400, was $450 TCL 65-inch Q5 4K QLED TV — $400, was $600 Hisense 75-inch U6 Series 4K QLED TV — $700, was $800 Samsung 85-inch Q60C 4K QLED TV — $1,700, was $2,000 TCL 98-inch XL Collection 4K QLED TV — $4,500, was $6,000 What features should I look for in a QLED TV? When is the best time to shop QLED TV deals? TCL 50-inch Q5 4K QLED TV — $250, was $400 TCL You don’t need to spend several hundreds of dollars to get a QLED TV in your living room because there are affordable options like the 50-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV. With 4K Ultra HD resolution and support for all the most advanced HDR formats, you’ll enjoy sharp details and lifelike colors, and it runs on Google TV to access all of the popular streaming services. The platform also offers Chromecast so you can stream from your mobile devices onto the 50-inch screen, and it enables compatibility with Google Assistant and Amazon’s Alexa.
Hisense 55-inch U6 Series 4K QLED TV — $400, was $450 Best Buy The 55-inch Hisense U6 Series 4K QLED TV is another relatively affordable choice, with 4K Ultra HD resolution, support for Dolby Vision and Dolby Atmos , and mini-LED that can create even brighter images. The TV also runs on Google TV, so you can use voice commands for functions such as changing channels and searching for content with the help of Google Assistant or Amazon’s Alexa.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
TCL 65-inch Q5 4K QLED TV — $400, was $600 TCL If you like the TCL Q5 4K QLED TV but you want a larger screen, then check out the 65-inch model. You’ll get all the same features, including 4K Ultra HD resolution, support for most HDR formats, and Google TV, but you’ll be able to maximize them further on a bigger display.
Hisense 75-inch U6 Series 4K QLED TV — $700, was $800 Hisense You can also get the Hisense U6 Series 4K QLED TV with a bigger screen, to the tune of 75 inches. It’s the same TV with Dolby Vision and Dolby Atmos, alongside mini-LED technology, but you’ll be able to watch your favorite streaming shows on a larger display that will breathe new life into your home theater setup.
Samsung 85-inch Q60C 4K QLED TV — $1,700, was $2,000 Samsung We’re getting into the gigantic display territory with the 85-inch Samsung Q60C 4K QLED TV, which is powered by Samsung’s Quantum Processor Lite with 4K Upscaling to improve the quality of the content that you watch and the Tizen platform to access streaming services. The TV offers Quantum HDR for even better picture quality than you can imagine, and it comes with the Samsung Gaming Hub through which you can stream video games without the need for a console.
TCL 98-inch XL Collection 4K QLED TV — $4,500, was $6,000 TCL USA / TCL With the 98-inch screen of the TCL XL Collection 4K QLED TV, you’re going to have to consult our guide on what size TV to buy to make sure that you have enough space in your living room. If you do, then this is the QLED TV that you want to buy, if you can afford its discounted price. It’s still not cheap, but it’s going to be worth it to watch your favorite shows on such a massive display with 4K Ultra HD resolution, HDR Pro Pack with Dolby Vision, and Google TV.
What features should I look for in a QLED TV? When it comes to ensuring you get a TV with superior picture quality, QLED and OLED picture technologies are pretty much the cream of the crop at this point in. OLED TVs use self-lit pixels to create impressive image contrast, while QLED TVs produce an immersive, high quality image using nanoparticles called quantum dots.
 This technology makes pretty much any QLED TV you come across capable of producing an image worthy of your home theater.
When browsing through more specific features, however, one thing you may want to keep an eye out for is the QLED TV’s 4K upscaling capabilities. 4K upscaling will take older content and automatically upconvert it to 4K resolution, which means all of your favorite shows and movies from long ago will be presented in the modern clarity of 4K. This is something you’ll want to be sure is part of the feature set of any QLED TV you’re looking for in order to ensure you’re maximizing the value of your 4K TV screen.
If you’re looking for a QLED TV to put through its paces with fast-paced action or video games, one thing to keep an eye out for is a high refresh rate. You’ll want a QLED TV with a refresh rate of at least 120Hz if you’re looking for something that surpasses the standard. This will keep your picture from lagging or breaking apart if you’re gaming, or if you’re watching intense, fast-paced content like sports or action movies. Many QLED TVs have gaming technologies built in, which will likely guarantee you a higher refresh rate.
When is the best time to shop QLED TV deals? There’s generally no better time to buy a QLED TV than when you happen to have a deal in front of you. QLED TVs often see pretty substantial discounts taking place throughout the year, and while it’s certainly possible to come across a model that’s seeing a major discount from time to time, most QLED TVs that see a discount do so pretty frequently.
There is reason to believe some more significant price drops may turn up during certain holiday season. Black Friday and Cyber Monday see their fair share of QLED TV deals, as does Amazon’s Prime Day sales event. We’ve cleared Prime Day 2023 at this point, however, and both Black Friday and Cyber Monday are still months away. So while there’s a chance some decent QLED TV deals may turn up later in the year, the ones that are available right now are still worth pouncing on, and are likely not much less impressive than anything that will turn up before the year is out.
Editors' Recommendations The best Sony TV Black Friday deals on 4K TVs, 8K TVs, and OLED TVs The best 75-inch TV Black Friday deals on Samsung, Sony, and more All the best 65-inch TV Black Friday deals you can shop now Best Buy Black Friday TV deals: Save on LG, Samsung, Sony, and more The best 55-inch TV Black Friday deals right now Deals Cheapest Prices TV Audio / Video This is one of the most attractive OLED TV Black Friday deals in the market right now -- a $1,600 discount from Best Buy for the 77-inch Samsung S89C OLED 4K TV, which slashes its price from $3,600 to $2,000. It's still not cheap even with the savings, but this is the kind of purchase from Best Buy Black Friday TV deals that will totally transform your living room. We're not sure if this offer will remain online through to the shopping holiday though, so if you don't want to miss out, it's highly recommended that you complete the transaction immediately.
Why you should buy the 77-inch Samsung S89C OLED 4K TV You shouldn't underestimate how big the 77-inch Samsung S89C OLED 4K TV is -- you need to consult our guide on what size TV to buy if you have enough space for it. If you do, then you should be looking forward to watching the most popular shows and movies with 4K Ultra HD resolution, with the TV's Neural Quantum Processor with 4K Upscaling capable of upgrading the quality of all kinds of content. The Samsung S89C OLED 4K TV runs on the Tizen platform to grant you access to your favorite streaming services, and it even comes with the Samsung Gaming Hub that collects all video games streaming services in one place.
Audio / Video There's no shortage of QLED TV Black Friday deals this year, but it will be tough to find a better offer than Best Buy's lowered price for the 55-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV. Instead of $450, you'll only have to pay nearly half that following a $220 discount, for an eye-catching price of $230 for the shopping holiday. You're going to have to hurry with your purchase if you want to take advantage of the huge savings though, because we're pretty sure that this bargain is attracting a lot of shoppers. Proceed with the transaction now so that you don't miss out.
Why you should buy the 55-inch TCL Q5 4K QLED TV The TCL Q5 4K QLED TV features a 55-inch display with 4K Ultra HD resolution, which guarantees sharp details and lifelike colors when you're watching your favorite shows and movies, and it supports most advanced HDR formats for even better picture quality. Its built-in Google TV platform grants access to all of the most popular streaming services like Netflix and Disney+, while also making the TCL Q5 4K QLED TV compatible with voice commands through smart home devices that are running on Google Assistant or Amazon's Alexa.
Audio / Video If you looked at our article on the best early Samsung Black Friday deals and wanted more TV deals, you weren't alone. Samsung TVs are cool, integrate easily with Samsung soundbars, and are generally considered one of the best TV brands for their focus on accessibility. However, they are usually quite pricey. Take advantage of these deals to get one in your house at an affordable price.
This list doesn't cover Black Friday soundbar deals, but Samsung has quite a few offerings in that departments. Many of the options below come from Best Buy Black Friday TV deals, but Samsung itself has a lot to offer on their own site, which we've also dug into.
Best Samsung Black Friday deals on 4K TVs 4K TVs are of high quality and have been the mainstay in TVs for quite some time. Samsung makes some of the best, and they are among Samsung's most affordable offerings. Check out these Samsung 4K TV deals to snag something affordable: Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
