Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Guides Products Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site.
Why trust us? Best QLED TVs for 2023: from TCL, Samsung, Hisense, and more By Michael Bizzaco and Derek Malcolm Close Welcome to the latest generation of LED-backlit TVs. Some brands call it ULED, while others emphasize the “quantum dot” moniker, but there’s one umbrella acronym that effectively covers all these technologies and more: QLED. Quantum-dot LED TVs are some of the best LED sets ever produced, and they’re made by a number of different TV brands , including Samsung , Sony, Hisense, and TCL. Many models even use mini-LED lighting , which allows these TVs to achieve arresting peak brightness levels and amazing colors and contrast.
There are many different QLEDs on the market right now, so we thought we’d help you pick one out (and learn more about them) by creating this roundup of the best QLED TVs.
Save on everything from laptops and tablets, to coffee makers and air purifiers, and a whole host of Apple tech like iPad, Apple Watch and even the latest M3 MacBooks, as well as smart home essentials like the Amazon Echo and smart bulbs.
More More More More More More Zeke Jones / Digital Trends Samsung QN90C Neo QLED The best QLED TV Class-leading HDR performance Excellent black levels, backlight control Outstanding color performance Powerful processing Premium design and build Frustrating Smart TV OS Lofty price It’s hard not to love a Samsung TV. Over the last decade or so, the manufacturer has consistently delivered one amazing set after another, and has been producing some top-notch QLEDS for several years now. We were huge fans of the 2022 Samsung QN90B, and now we’re more than glad to sing the praises of our favorite 2023 QLED, the incredible Samsung QN90C. Available in sizes ranging from 43 to 85 inches, the QN90C is going to be the best QLED for most folks; although some may be interested in taking things a step further with the flagship performance of the Samsung S95C QD-OLED.
As for those of us who choose to remain with a more traditional QLED, the QN90C has it all. We’re talking near-impeccable HDR performance, chart-topping peak brightness levels, terrific reflection handling, and some of the best gaming features you’ll find in 2023. Many of these features are further enriched by Samsung’s Neural Quantum Processor 4K, which optimizes each and every source to give you as much picture detail as possible, whether you’re watching brand-new Netflix 4K HDR releases or your vintage DVD collection.
When it comes to contrast, QLED TVs are also getting better at acting more like OLEDs, which bodes well for those of us who want our movies and TV shows to be packed with rich colors and amazing black levels. The QN90C is an LED-powered TV, and we did notice a bit of light blooming during darker scenes, but that’s a small grievance about an otherwise remarkable picture.
More Zeke Jones/Digital Trends Sony Bravia X93L mini-LED The best not-quite QLED alternative Excellent motion resolution Stellar color accuracy Bright, punchy HDR performance Solid black levels Some backlight blooming/halo Poor off-angle performance While Sony doesn't claim to use quantum dots (it call its tech Triluminos Pro) and doesn't market its TVs as QLEDs, they compete right alongside the TVs on this list that are marketed as QLED. So, if you're considering a "QLED" TV based on the idea that they are top-tier LED/LCD TV performers, then you should also be considering this Sony option, never mind that it doesn't have QLED printed on the box.
With that out of the way, we give you the Sony Bravia X93L mini-LED, a 2023 TV that picks up where last year's excellent flagship Sony X95K mini-LED TV left off, but for a much better price. In fact, the X93L is identical to the X95K but with a handful of software improvements, including better eco settings management, new black level adjustments for better fine-tuning of darker scenes (if you're a Game of Thrones fan), and a new gaming dashboard that lets you switch between 60Hx and 120Hz VRR. It's bright (at 1,800 peak nits), has beautiful color reproduction, supports all the HDR contrasty things you need (HDR10, HLG, and Dolby Vision), and is excellent for gamers, too, with VRR, auto low latency mode, and HDMI 2.1 support.
If you're a fan of Sony soundbars, too, you can take advantage of the X93L's ability to sync the TV's speakers with select soundbars to help with clearer dialog and immersion. It's also Dolby Atmos capable. The X93L is a new spin on one of Sony's best TVs for 2023, but without the premium " Sony tax.
" More Zeke Jones/Digital Trends TCL QM8 QLED 4K mini-LED One of the brightest TVs we've ever seen Stunning HDR performance Class-leading brightness Excellent black levels Virtually no detectable blooming Very good color saturation/brightness Some motion artifacts New for 2023, TCL is at it again with its lineup of mini-LED QLED TVs that continue to prove that you can have high-end features and quality at prices that are way more reasonable than the marquee TV brands.
 And the TCL QM8 is literally the brand's shining example ... blindingly shiny with peak brightness levels of 2,500 nits in our tests, making it one of the brightest TVs we've ever seen. Our reviewer was so impressed with the QM8, in fact, that he praised it as his "go-to TV recommendation for probably 90% of people this year." In-line with QLED's ability to deliver bright images that are great for those setting up their TV in a light-drenched room, the MQ8 also has it where it counts in the contrast area, too, with support for Dolby Vision, HDR10, HRD10+, and HLG, and excellent local dimming that also make it a good performer in darker rooms with decent black levels. Are they as inky as OLED? No, but not much is, and with OLED still costing a premium, it's getting harder and harder to make a viable case for spending the extra cash. The QM8's mini-LED technology delivers excellent color accuracy, too, with 97% coverage of DCI-P3 and about 76% of BT.2020 color gamuts.
The TCL QM8 is a Google TV-based TV , which makes for easy setup and use as well as access to all the streaming services and apps you could ever want via the Google Play Store, plus it's got Chromecast built-in for easy mirroring and casting from your devices.
With a 120Hz refresh rate, fast-action movies are smooth, and gamers will appreciate the TV's support for variable refresh rate (VRR) and Game Accelerator that boosts things up to 240Hz and AMD FreeSync Pro for even smoother gameplay.
The TCL QM8 also features a built-in subwoofer for bigger bass sound, but you're still probably going to want an external soundbar.
 Available in 65-, 75-, 85-, and 98-inch sizes, the TCL QM8 ranges in price from $1,200 to $10,000.
More Image used with permission by copyright holder Hisense U8K ULED TV Unbeatable brightness for an unbeatable price Excellent brightness Vivid HDR colors Very good backlight control Excellent contrast Great for gaming Some color anomalies Scattered software bugs We can’t stop talking about Hisense TVs. When Hisense models first started hitting U.S. shelves, they were decent TVs, but they were certainly aimed at a more price-conscious shopper, with cost valued more than performance. Fast-forward to today, and Hisense has carved out quite the name for itself -- and not just because of how much you won’t spend on a model like the U8K.
This is one mean QLED, folks. In our own testing of the TV, the Hisense U8K rocked the house when it came to peak brightness levels, delivering readings around 2,000 nits when viewing HDR content. Tech talk aside, this means that the U8K can get insanely bright, and without colors becoming oversaturated. That’s the biggest feat, really. Yes, most QLEDs can get very bright, but this tends to interfere with overall color accuracy and contrast. That’s just not the case with the U8K.
Available in 55-, 65-, and 75-inch sizes, the Hisense U8K tops out at 4K/120Hz on its two full-bandwidth HDMI inputs, and also includes Hisense’s Game Mode Pro for those of us hooking up a next-gen console or PC to the TV. And as a little bonus, those two HDMI 2.1 ports will actually push 4K at 144Hz when compatible PC gear is wired up.
The Hisense U8K’s price is a massive calling card, no doubt, but if you’re looking for a hard-hitting QLED that goes above and beyond the “cost-friendly” slabel, do allow Hisense’s flagship model to blow your mind.
More Chris Hagan / Digital Trends TCL Q7 QLED Another great TCL High brightness Great contrast Vivid color Great for gaming White balance is just bad Color is technically inaccurate Inconsistent picture quality from streaming apps We’ve been very impressed by TCL’s Mini LED models over the last few years, so it’s no surprise that the brand gets more than one mention in our roundup. Sitting one rung below the QM8, the TCL Q7 is another awesome QLED that competes with models like the Hisense U7K and the Sony X90L. We tested the 65-inch version ourselves (it’s also available in 55-, 75-, and 85-inch sizes), and were taken aback by the Q7’s high brightness output and vivid colors.
Now as far as nit metrics go, the TCL Q7 is a bit on the lackluster side Not only did it score some so-so peak brightness readings (around 1,100 nits) with HDR playback, but the meh results found their way into SDR content too (about 700 nits for peak brightness). Compared to TVs like the Hisense U8K, the Q7 just doesn’t touch the kind of QLED brightness of some of its competitors, but that doesn’t mean there isn’t plenty to love about it.
Two of the Q7’s four HDMI inputs are full-bandwidth 2.1 ports that support 4K at up to 120Hz. It also runs the latest version of Google TV for all your Netflix and Prime Video streaming needs. Plus, you’ll be able to use Google Assistant to search for media and control your smart home devices, and there’s also AirPlay and HomeKit support.
In a way, we love the TCL Q7 because it’s not a perfect QLED. But what it does well, it tends to do very well, and the price just can’t be beat.
More Samsung Samsung QN900C Neo QLED TV The best 8K QLED Delivers up to 8K resolution Excellent local dimming capabilities Intuitive smart TV platform Expensive Not a lot of 8K content out there Many consumer tech companies put the cart before the horse, and the world of TVs may be one of the biggest offenders when it comes to horse-less transportation. In the case of a TV like the Samsung QN900C, our equestrian analogy is best represented by a hardware versus software comparison. Quite simply, the QN900C is an amazing 8K TV, but we’re still living in a world that is primarily dominated by 4K and 1080p content.
Fortunately, Samsung’s next-gen QLED has some fantastic picture processing tech under its hood. The QN900C is outfitted with Samsung’s Quantum Matrix Pro, which itself is powered by mini-LED lighting. Translation, please? You got it! Matrix Pro is Samsung’s fancy-pants terminology for local dimming zones (a small block of LED lights), and because the QN900C uses mini LEDs, the QLED has a lot of control zones. At the end of the day, this means you can expect the QN900C to deliver excellent peak brightness and color brightness to the parts of the panel that require said brightness, while the rest of the screen is enshrouded in darkness (that’s a good thing).
And because this is an 8K TV, the QN900C will upscale whatever 4K or regular high-def HDR and SDR sources you feed it. Of course, you won’t be looking at a true 8K image, but it’ll be dang close! This is also an Infinity One Samsung QLED, which means the chassis is extremely thin and there’s essentially no physical frame to speak of. So, when it comes time to plug in your components, you’ll be doing so with the TV’s external One Connect box (because there’s no HDMI ports on the TV itself).
If you’re into future-proofing your consumer tech, the Samsung QN900C is an 8K TV that will rule your home theater setup for years to come.
Image used with permission by copyright holder TCL 6-Series (R646) The best budget QLED TV Bright, vivid picture with deep blacks Very good color accuracy Zippy mini-LED backlight control 4K 120Hz capable for gaming High value Glitchy operation No input button on remote In 2021, TCL introduced mini-LED backlighting on the 6-Series, proving that the miniaturized light sources can make a big difference in contrast, black levels, and detail. And based on our hands-on experience with the R646, we love the end result.
Brightness soars with this TV, especially when it comes to peak nit output. The vivid visuals are present when it comes to color brightness too, making for a budget QLED that is packed with lots of punch and kick in the picture department, and for a relatively low price.
The 6-Series is also optimized for gaming, with its four HDMI inputs supporting 4K/120Hz, making this a blistering-fast choice for PS5 and Xbox Series X enthusiasts. In terms of overall picture upscaling, the 6-Series doesn't touch the kind of cleanup powers you'll find on higher-priced sets from Samsung and Sony, but for those of us that plan to do most of our TV-watching with Netflix and other mainline streaming apps, the TCL 6-Series (R646) is an excellent budget option.
More Frequently Asked Questions The "Q" in QLED stands for quantum dot , a nanoparticle that emits light when energized. Quantum dots can be tuned to emit specific wavelengths of light, so TV makers add green and red quantum dots in a layer over their blue LED backlights, which creates a much purer white light than a single LED backlight can create on its own. With a pure white backlight, the TV's color filters can produce much more accurate colors, leading to significantly better picture quality than regular LED TVs.
UHD stands for ultra-high definition, also known as 4K.
 It's a description of resolution, or the number of pixels that make up an on-screen image. It can refer to the resolution of a specific piece of content (many streaming services offer movies in UHD) as well as the native resolution of a TV. QLED refers to the kind of display technology a TV uses (see above). QLED TVs come in various native resolutions, from HD to 8K, including UHD.
It depends. Right now, QLED TVs are capable of getting brighter than OLED TVs , which deliver better black levels and contrast. We feel that OLED TVs still produce a better overall picture quality, but if your viewing area is especially bright, or if you want a really big screen, QLED models might be a better choice for you.
Once again, it depends on your particular situation. For instance, if you want a TV for your patio, where it will experience partial or full sun, an OLED TV simply won't get bright enough to compete with all that daylight, and a QLED TV is definitely superior. On the other hand, if you can darken your media room whenever you want, an OLED TV will still deliver the deepest blacks and highest contrast.
Finding the right QLED TV for you is all about balancing size, picture quality, features, and price. First, figure out your budget, then prioritize the rest of your list. If getting the biggest TV for your money is the top priority, you'll be able to find 75-inch and larger models from brands like TCL, Vizio, Hisense, and LG that are still quite affordable. If picture quality matters more – especially when viewing HDR material – you should choose a model with a very high peak brightness. If gaming is a top consideration, make sure you find a model that's equipped with VRR, ALLM, and 4K at 120Hz for the best possible experience.
Samsung has two flagship QLED models depending on whether you want 8K resolution. The QN900B is the company's top 8K model, and the QN90B is its top 4K model.
Yes, but picking the right model is key. You'll want to look for a TV that has the latest HDMI 2.1 features, like VRR, ALLM, and 4K at 120Hz. Another feature that gamers will appreciate is support for AMD's FreeSync or Nvidia's G-Sync, which are two proprietary VRR technologies used by game consoles like the Xbox Series X and many gaming PCs.
No. Burn-in is a permanent form of image retention caused by leaving the same image on a TV for many hours at a time. In OLED TVs, this can cause individual pixels to age prematurely, leaving the "shadow" of some parts of the image on screen even after the image has changed. Because QLED TVs use a backlight for their brightness, their pixels aren't susceptible to this kind of uneven aging.
Theoretically, a QLED TV will outlast an OLED TV, at least in terms of maximum brightness, because OLED pixels lose their ability to produce brightness at a faster rate than a QLED TV's backlight. But you would likely have to keep your TV on for eight hours a day, seven days a week, for many, many years before this difference became noticeable. That said, a QLED TV should last a decade or more as long as none of its individual components fail -- something that can be hard to predict even for the best TVs.
QLED prices, much like OLED prices, are dropping all the time. A few years ago, you'd need to spend well over $2,000 for a 65-inch QLED TV. Today, you can find them for less than half that price.
Definitely. If you have a choice between a standard LED TV and a QLED TV, the QLED model will deliver brighter, more accurate colors, which should yield a better image overall. And as QLED TVs become the norm for non-OLED models, you won't have to pay much of a price premium to get one.
Editors' Recommendations This Samsung 77-inch OLED TV is $1,600 off for Black Friday The best 70-inch TV Black Friday deals from LG, Samsung, and more The best 75-inch TV Black Friday deals on Samsung, Sony, and more Best Samsung TV Black Friday Deals: Save on 4K and 8K TVs now The best QLED TV Black Friday deals on TCL, Samsung, Vizio, and more Best Products Samsung TCL TV Audio / Video If you don't already know, OLED and QLED panels are totally different, with OLED including millions of individually lit pixels. That allows them to be more vibrant than other panel technologies, but also during dark scenes, you get true blacks because the lights are actually turned off, rather than just dimmed. Unfortunately, OLED panels are expensive, unless you can find some excellent deals. Don't turn away just yet, though, because there are a ton of early Black Friday deals to shop right now -- across many retailers -- and some even included some great discounts on OLED TVs. In fact, we've rounded up all of the best OLED TV Black Friday deals we could find, including one stand out that pretty much everyone should consider.
If an OLED display is just too far out of your price range, you should also check out QLED TV Black Friday deals. Best Buy Black Friday TV deals include a wide variety of options, if you want to compare prices across TV categories.
The best OLED TV Black Friday deal Audio / Video When it comes to a home theater setup bigger can often mean better. That’s certainly the case with the Samsung QE1C 4K QLED TV, but with this TV bigger also means savings. This 70-inch TV makes for one of the best QLED TV deals available when you purchase directly from Samsung, as it’s marked down an impressive $920 from its regular price of $1,800. This brings its sale price to $880, and Samsung is including free shipping with a purchase.
Why you should buy the Samsung 70-inch QE1C 4K QLED TV Samsung is one of the premier names when it comes to 4K TVs. It almost always seems to place a television amongst the best TVs, and it’s regularly regarded as one of the best TV brands. With the QE1C 4K QLED TV, Samsung offers a range of smart features that include access to Samsung’s gaming hub, as well as easy access to your favorite streaming services. This makes the QE1C a great way to kick back with the best new movies to stream on Netflix, Hulu, Prime, Max, and more. It also comes with a SolarCell Remote, which gives you full control of your content and features a solar panel for charging.
Audio / Video Not every pair of headphones or earbuds has to cost over $200. The fact of the matter is that many of us simply can’t afford the lofty prices that brands like Bose, Sony, and Apple demand. But if your cans or buds cost less than $100, you’ll still be able to enjoy some amazing sound and features. You just need to know what brands to look at, which is where we come in.
We’ve compiled a list of the best cheap earbuds and headphones that come in way under the flagship prices of those top-shelf brands, while still delivering features like exceptional sound quality, active noise cancellation, great battery life, and comfortable designs.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
