Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Products What the hell are quantum dots, and why do you want them in your next TV? By Caleb Denison Close Vials containing quantum dots: fluorescent nanoparticles of semiconducting material. Image credit: PlasmaChem PlasmaChem LED, LCD, OLED, 4K, UHD … the last thing the TV industry needs right now is another techno-acronym. But TV tech being the ever-evolving juggernaut that it is, we were bound to have to embrace new terminology at some point. Turns out, that point is now, and the term — which will be the buzzword de rigeur in 2015 — is quantum dots. Although we’re glad to be spared another acronym, the term “quantum dot” not only fails to explain what the tech does, but the subject matter is pretty heady stuff, too.
Not to worry, that’s what we’re here for. Whichever pseudonym you hear used to refer to them, at the end of the day, what quantum dots really mean to you is: better color.
Simply put, quantum dots are tiny particles that glow when you shine light on them. Cram a bunch of them on a sheet of film, shine light on that film, and the film glows! Doesn’t sound all that magical, does it? Of course, it isn’t really as simple as that, and as complicated as the science behind quantum dots may be, how they work to make LCD TVs look better really is fascinating stuff. With that in mind, here’s an explainer of how quantum dots work in televisions as it might be told by your junior high science teacher (because believe us, the college-level explainer will put you to sleep).
What is PHOLED? Your eyes (and your utility bill) are going to love it This OLED TV deal is why upgrading is worth your money Want to watch Disney+ on your TV? You need this cheap accessory First you start with an LCD Quantum dots, or in scientific parlance, nanocrystal semiconductors, don’t amount to a new display type or resolution. Quantum dots are just a new component in an LCD screen. More specifically, quantum dots work by fixing a glaring problem inherent to LED-backlit LCD TVs.
That means we’ll need to explain how basic LCD displays work before we go any further, so treat this as a refresher if you already know.
Image used with permission by copyright holder Your basic LCD TV has three major parts: a white backlight that generates the light you see, color filters that will divide that light into pinpricks of red, green and blue light, and a liquid-crystal module that works like a grid of tiny windows (pixels) to blend those colors into an image. Each pixel has its own red, green and blue subpixels – those pinpricks of light — which can wink open and closed with liquid crystals, almost like shutters. When white light from the LEDs passes through a pixel with its red and green subpixels totally shut and the blue subpixel totally open, it appears blue to your eye. If all three subpixels are open, the red, green and blue combine to appear white. Closing them all produces black. By mixing the amount of light coming from different subpixels, the TV is able to create many different colors in various shades and hues. What you see on the other end is a picture.
What it means to you is: better color.
Today’s TVs use LEDs to provide the “white” backlight, but here’s the problem with this setup: LEDs suck at producing white light. As anyone who made the transition from incandescent light bulbs to compact fluorescent or LED lights knows, things in your home don’t look the same after you make the switch. Colors look off, and the light itself seems cold and sterile. Light bulb makers have worked hard to change the “temperature” of these lights using various methods to make them feel warmer and more natural to our eyes, and today they’re easier to live with. In a way, quantum dots do something similar by helping the LED backlights in LCD televisions be more conducive to creating accurate colors.
The funny thing about LED lights is that they don’t glow white naturally. The “white” LEDs in your TV are actually blue LEDs coated with a yellow phosphor, which produces a “sort of” white light. But this quasi-white light falls short of the ideal. If you fed it into a prism (remember those from science class?) it wouldn’t produce a rainbow of light equally bright in every shade. For instance, it is woefully short on intensity in the red wavelengths, so red would appear dimmer than green and blue after filtering, thus impacting every other color the TV tries to make. Engineers are able to compensate for this uneven color intensity by balancing it with workarounds (you could dial down green and blue to match, for instance), but the intensity of the final image suffers as a result.
What TV manufacturers need is a “cleaner” source of white light that’s more evenly balanced across the red, green and blue color spectrum. That’s where the quantum dots come in.
Enter the quantum dot As a reminder, quantum dots are tiny phosphorescent crystals that glow when you shine light on them. They can glow in an array of colors, and which color they glow is determined by their size. Since the size of a quantum dot can now be precisely controlled (based on how many atoms are in it – these things are smaller than a virus) the resulting light they put out can be dialed in just as precisely. They’re also remarkably stable, meaning the effect doesn’t wear out or change over time. A quantum dot manufactured to glow a specific shade of red will always glow that shade of red. See where this is going? Quantum-dot enhancement film (QDEF) ends up sandwiched between a display’s backlight and traditional liquid-crystal module (LCM).
Image used with permission by copyright holder What TV manufacturers are now doing is taking a sheet of film and saturating it with a bunch of quantum dots that have been engineered to glow in very precise shades of red and green. They then ditch that yellow phosphor-covered LED they’ve been using and instead employ a pure blue LED.
Now, at this point you might be thinking: Eureka! We’ve now got a blue light, with red and green coming from the quantum dots! RGB = done!” But that’s not how it actually works. Remember, the quantum dots are on a giant, uniform sheet, not arranged neatly into microscopic subpixels. So all those colors go in a blender.
When the blue LED shines on the quantum dot-saturated sheet of film and the dots start glowing red and green, all three of them combine to create the ideal white light. Now the color filters in the LCD screen have a better source of light to work with and can more precisely and efficiently filter out red, green, and blue. Since there are fewer undesirable “peaks” in white light, the color filters don’t have to squash them out. For instance, there’s little intensity in the orange and yellow wavelengths to take out when creating red, so you get brighter, more accurate reds. And when the red, green, and blues are brighter and more accurate, every resulting color that comes from the color mixing process is going to be more accurate, and brighter.
Voila. You now have an LCD TV with much better color capabilities. And this wider color gamut is going to be especially great for 4K UHD televisions, which can handle a lot more color information than 1080p HD televisions.
There’s just one catch.
It’s still an LCD TV Most LCD-based TVs struggle to produce blacks that don’t look gray, because the liquid crystal modules – those “shutters” that can block light – aren’t perfect. Even when they’re totally closed, some light from the backlights seeps through. That’s why displaying a “black” screen on your TV looks slightly grey, but when you turn it off, it goes pitch black. That grey you see is a minimal amount of light seeping through.
Quantum dots aim to improve performance in some of these areas, but at the end of the day, an LCD panel has its limitations – it will never be able to completely shut out all of the light behind it. For that reason, picture quality will always be compromised relative to OLED technology, which has pixels that can stop producing light completely when given the right signal, producing inky, pitch-black image quality.
Still, with plasma televisions now retired and OLED televisions (LG is the only company making them) still prohibitively expensive for most, it’s nice to know that LCD televisions will be getting a helping hand from quantum dots.
Editors' Recommendations LG Black Friday: Early deal saves you $800 on a 65-inch OLED TV Best 75-inch TV Black Friday deals for 2022 LG TVs at CES 2021: OLED gets a brightness boost 5 TV deals you can’t afford to miss this 4th of July Gaming monitor vs. TV: Why a TV could be your next gaming monitor LG TCL TV Audio / Video One of the best features of HDMI ARC connection is being able to control basic functions of your soundbar like volume and power with your TV remote. Now, Roku's new Roku TV Ready initiative is taking things a step further, allowing soundbar makers to work with Roku software so you can control everything on your soundbar -- from EQ to sound modes -- all from your Roku TV remote.
The first manufacturer on the list is long-time partner TCL, which has committed to releasing at least one Roku soundbar in 2020. Sound United brand and storied audio company Denon has promised to launch some Roku TV Ready audio products as well, allowing you to control their high-quality sound machines from the Roku TV Remote.
Audio / Video Vizio kicked off CES 2020 with a bang, announcing refreshed models of its P-Series Quantum and Quantum X, M-Series Quantum, and V-Series 4K TVs, as well as its first OLED TV. As if that wasn't enough, it also showed off SmartCast 4.0, the latest version of its smart software, and new audio hardware.
Let's start with the TVs. The headline act? The Vizio OLED TV. Little is known about the television right now, other than that it is bezel-less, has the same new IQ Ultra CPU as the P-Series (we'll touch on that in a bit), and will be available in two sizes: 55- and 65-inch. There's no word on pricing or availability.
Audio / Video LG stole the show at CES 2019 with an incredible OLED TV concept that retracted into a piece of furniture when it wasn't in use. The LG Signature Series OLED TV R wasn't just retreating into a larger cubbyhole that housed it; instead, the 65-inch screen rolled into a structure the height of a Doberman. But even that was too space-consuming for LG. Its solution? A (concept) roll-down OLED TV that unfurls from the ceiling -- and it is set to be showcased at CES 2020.
The announcement, made in a press release from the LG Display division, is intended as a teaser of what's to come. The manufacturer hasn't shared any specifics about how it works, in other words, other than this sentence: "The 65-inch UHD roll-down OLED TV, which can be installed naturally as part of the space and can only be used down when needed, is expected to increase the level of smart home interior by increasing space utilization." One thing is for certain: LG definitely had its work cut out. There's a minefield of problems to overcome in order to achieve what LG says it has. For starters, it would first need to think of a functional approach that caters to ceilings of all heights. You want the screen to be eye-level for the most comfortable viewing experience, and there's no universal measurement for that -- it's relative to each home and viewer.
But wait, there's more ...
The drop-down OLED is just the tip of the iceberg. LG has plenty of other intriguing hardware in store for CES 2020, like an 88-inch 8K Cinematic Sound TV with a built-in 11.2-channel home theater setup, and a wafer-thin 77-inch 4K Wallpaper OLED variant. It has also been working on equipment for aircraft, headlined by a 55-inch Full HD transparent OLED that acts as an aisle partition and a 65-inch 4K bendable OLED that's flexible at both ends for first class. It is even bringing along plastic OLEDs, designed for use in cars.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
