Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video News What is a Micro Lens Array, and how does it make OLED TVs brighter? By Simon Cohen Close Both LG and Panasonic announced new OLED TVs with substantially brighter screens than their previous generations at CES 2023.
 In fact, they are up to 150% brighter in some cases, with peak brightness claims of 2,100 nits. That’s a big jump, and much of the credit goes to a new ingredient in OLED panels called Micro Lens Array (or MLA). How does it work, and which TVs will offer it? Here’s everything you need to know.
One panel to rule them all What is META? Why micro lenses? Wider angles, too Which TVs will get META? Could META be used on QD-OLED TVs? One panel to rule them all A conventional OLED display (left) and an OLED display with MLA/META Booster.
LG Display You may see MLA referred to by name, as is the case with Panasonic’s new MZ2000. It says it’s using a Master OLED Ultimate module with a Micro Lens Array.
 Or you may see a company refer to it in a less direct way: LG says its new G3 OLED gets its brightness bump from its Brightness Booster Max technology.
Regardless of the buzzwords used to sell it, OLED panels with MLA are currently only made by LG Display. LG Electronics and Panasonic (and pretty much every other company that sells OLED TVs) get their OLED panels from LG Display, a dedicated division within LG’s giant enterprise that develops and manufactures displays. And even though there’s plenty of room for these companies to make their own unique tweaks — which explains why there can be noticeable differences in image quality from one manufacturer’s OLED TV to another — they’re all working from the same starting point.
Samsung confirms its 2023 QD-OLED TVs start at just $1,900, are available now LG’s giant 97-inch M3 OLED TV eliminates HDMI cables Samsung shows off the first two 77-inch QD-OLED 4K TVs at CES 2023 But get ready — we’re not done with the buzzwords just yet. Even LG Display is using proprietary lingo when discussing its third-gen, MLA-based OLED panels, which it says are built using “META” technology.
What is META? LG Display Yes, it’s a little confusing. “Meta” is now the name for a new display technology as well as the name of the company formerly known as Facebook.
 To keep them separate, we’ll stick with LG Display’s all-caps formatting when referring to its OLED tech.
META, according to LG Display, is actually the combination of two discrete technologies. There’s a hardware component — the Micro Lens Array — and a software component, the brightness-enhancing algorithm known as META Booster. Working in tandem, LG Display claims they give its new panels better brightness, better viewing angles, and even better energy efficiency.
Why micro lenses? LG Display OLED’s self-emitting pixels are the reason OLED TVs look so good. Their deep blacks and incredible contrast are stunning. But OLED has trouble competing with its rival, QLED , when it comes to brightness. There are several reasons for this: It uses a color filter, which saps some of the light. OLED material itself must be managed carefully — pump too much energy into it for extra brightness and you dramatically reduce its lifespan. And because of the layers of glass involved in its manufacture, some of the light it produces gets trapped via internal reflection — it’s essentially bounced back toward the panel instead of being emitted toward the viewer.
Samsung Display chose to attack the color filter problem by developing a version of OLED that uses quantum dots ( QD-OLED ), and we can see its impressive results in TVs like the Samsung S95B and the Sony A95K.
 But LG Display has chosen to address the internal reflection problem, and its solution is the Micro Lens Array: billions of tiny convex lenses layered on top of its OLED pixels.
The lenses in a Micro Lens Array are measured in micrometers. They’re so staggeringly small, LG Display can fit just over 5,000 of them over a single pixel or 42.4 billion on a 77-inch OLED panel.
According to the company, all of those tiny lenses successfully redirect the light that would normally be lost to internal reflection. That “saved” brightness is so substantial that LG Display claims the MLA increases the panel’s efficiency by 22%. In other words, it takes less energy to produce the same amount of brightness as the previous generation.
From LG Display’s description, it sounds like the billions of tiny lenses are doing most of the heavy lifting when it comes to improving brightness, but the company says that its META Booster algorithm plays a role here too, especially as it relates to HDR. “It improves both screen brightness and color expression by analyzing and adjusting the brightness of each scene in real time. This innovative algorithm enhances HDR (High Dynamic Range), which represents brighter lights and deeper darks, to express more detailed and vivid images with the most accurate color expression to date.” Wider angles, too LG Display Because MLA uses a similar structure to the eyes of a dragonfly — which has 360-degree vision — another benefit of the Micro Lens Array is improved viewing angles. This is something of a surprise, inasmuch as OLED TVs are already leaps and bounds better than their QLED TV counterparts when it comes to viewing angles. Normally, as you move off to the side of a TV, brightness begins to drop off, and distortion starts to creep in. Move far enough, and brightness can drop by half.
LG Display says it has managed to increase that distance by up to 30%, resulting in a viewing angle of 160 degrees. Is that a lot? Well, when you consider that the first-gen OLED panels were considered superb with an 84-degree viewing angle, we’d have to say yes.
Which TVs will get META? LG / LG Electronics So far, LG Electronics has said it will use the new third-gen META-powered panels in its 55-, 65-, and 77-inch G3 OLED evo models, and Panasonic announced that it will do so on the 55- and 65-inch models of its new MZ2000 OLED TV. However, Panasonic hasn’t sold TVs in the U.S. for many years and hasn’t said if it will bring the MZ2000 to North America.
That likely means Sony will be LG’s only real competition, but given that Sony has decided not to reveal its 2023 TV lineup at CES , it could be weeks or months before we find out for sure if it plans to use these new third-gen panels.
Still, if manufacturers are ready to embrace META OLED panels, LG Display says it’s ready. It plans to make the new screens in 55-, 65-, and 77-inch sizes at 4K resolution, and 77- and 88-inch sizes for 8K, eventually bringing the technology to its entire portfolio of OLED screens.
Could META be used on QD-OLED TVs? If META endows conventional OLED panels with significantly better brightness and viewing angles, could it be applied to QD-OLED panels to give these displays a similar boost? Possibly, but there are several questions that need to be answered first. The biggest has to do with the structure of OLED vs. QD-OLED. Since QD-OLED achieves its greater brightness and color accuracy by eliminating the color filter used by conventional OLED (also known as WOLED because of its white subpixel), it might be less prone to the internal reflection and brightness loss of WOLED. Adding the MLA layer might not make as much of a difference.
Then there’s the question of manufacturing. At the moment, the MLA layer in LG Display’s panels is formed during the manufacturing process — it’s not a product that the company buys from a third party. If LG Display has patented the way it creates that MLA layer, it could force Samsung Display (the only current manufacturer of QD-OLED panels) to develop its own techniques for doing so. Should Samsung Display decide to add MLA to its QD-OLED panels, it’s probably going to be a few years before we see the first versions.
Editors' Recommendations QLED vs. OLED TVs: which is better and what’s the difference? Sharp is bringing one of the first OLED Roku TVs to the U.S. in 2023 Roku will start making its own Roku TVs and OLED reference design Samsung’s CES 2023 TVs get thinner, brighter, healthier, and better for gaming Samsung confirms ultrabright 77-inch QD-OLED panel for CES 2023. Will it be a TV? CES 2023 LG Tech News TV Audio / Video Ahead of its official CES 2023 presentation, LG has given us a taste of its TV tech for the coming year, especially as it relates to the company's lineup of OLED TVs. Once again, the G Series takes center stage, with the G3 OLED evo 4K. LG says that thanks to its Brightness Booster Max technology, the 55-, 65-, and 77-inch G3 models will see an increase in brightness by up to 70%.
The G3 OLED evo will also look a lot better when wall-mounted. LG calls its new One Wall Design approach "ultra-seamless" and says that it will leave no visible gap between the wall and the G3. That's saying a lot considering the G2 OLED evo was already impressively tight to the wall when wall-mounted.
News Break out the champagne and roll out the red carpets, CES is back! After two rough, COVID-addled years that saw the world’s greatest tech show reduced to a shell of its former self, the show is primed to spring back to its former glory for 2023. And our team of writers and editors will be on the ground in Las Vegas, bringing it all to you.
But much has changed since the last “normal” CES of 2020. The economy has boomed and busted, supply chains have knotted, and attitudes over excess have shifted as climate change looms larger and larger in our global conversation. And as always, the tech itself has marched forward, rising to the challenges of our new post-COVID lives.
Audio / Video In late May, LG announced that it would release an ultra-limited Star Wars edition of its impressive 65-inch C2 OLED TV. At the time, all we knew were a few design elements and that only 501 units were being sold (a nod to Darth Vader's leadership of the Empire's 501st clone army division).
Today, LG is announcing that the C2 OLED evo 65-inch Star Wars edition will be available exclusively on LG’s site for a Force-defying price of $3,000. While our review of the C2 puts it near the top of our list for OLED TVs, the Star Wars edition will run you nearly a full $500 more than the standard 65-inch C2, so you’ll have to be a pretty die-hard Star Wars fan to justify the upcharge.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
