Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video Features At $25K, LG’s 97-inch G2 OLED is actually a bargain By Caleb Denison Close No doubt, the LG 97-inch G2 OLED is crazy-town expensive for a TV, but considering what it does? It’s actually a bargain.
No projector can touch it It’s not ridiculously expensive It’s not just batsh*t-crazy outrageous, either Look, I’m not here trying to convince anyone reading this article that anyone needs a $25,000 TV — that’s LG’s job. This is really about me helping to make sense of a world that’s really hard to understand for anyone who isn’t really wealthy. This is me justifying a somewhat extravagant luxury for a demographic of onlookers who might love to own a 97-inch OLED TV, but who have zero shot of doing so until such a thing doesn’t cost as much as a compact car.
Also, let’s just be honest, talking about outrageously expensive AV gear is just super fun for me. So, you know, thanks for the indulgence. Here we go.
No projector can touch it I reckon that statement may trigger some AV geeks out there. Yes, my brethren, I know that Sony’s GTZ380 projector can go toe to toe with the LG G2 OLED in terms of HDR brightness, but that projector starts at $90,000, and that’s before the cost of a screen, installation, and sound system.
LG’s giant 97-inch M3 OLED TV eliminates HDMI cables I desperately crave LG’s flexible OLED TV. Here’s why I won’t buy it How to buy LG’s Star Wars ultra-limited-edition C2 OLED TV (and how much it costs) Sure, we could step down to Sony’s half-as-bright-but-still-very-impressive VPL XW7000ES projector which, at $27K, gets us a little closer to the G2’s asking price, but we still need a screen, installation, and sound.
My point is that a high-performance 97-inch TV is not only going to beat the pants off of any comparably priced projector/screen setup in terms of performance, but it’s going to be easier to use and more reliable. Very little is built into a projector — certainly no streaming apps, or casting capabilities. And while TV speakers generally aren’t awesome, projectors come with none at all.
Image used with permission by copyright holder By all accounts, the 97-inch LG G2 OLED is one of the best ways to get a truly high-performance, big-screen experience at home with a minimum of hassle, and I think that’s worth paying for.
It’s not ridiculously expensive As far as first-ever, groundbreaking TVs go, the 97-inch LG G2 isn’t priced that high. Consider what the first consumer 4K TV cost when it was introduced 10 years ago. Sony’s 84-inch Bravia XBR-84X900 LED TV, also introduced at CEDIA Expo, ran $25,000 at the time. That’s 13 inches less of inferior TV technology for $25,000 — and that’s 2012 dollars. Adjusted for (recently insane) inflation, that’s roughly equivalent to $32,250 in 2022.
Image used with permission by copyright holder It’s not just batsh*t-crazy outrageous, either Were someone to proclaim that a $25,000 97-inch TV was obscene, I would feel the need to help them adjust their perception by pointing out that LG’s rollable OLED TV , the OLED R, is a mere 65-inches in screen size and costs a whopping $100,000.
I’m sorry, what were you just saying about the $25,000 TV? Oh, that you’d like to have four of them? Good call.
Sounds like a bargain to me.
Editors' Recommendations LG releases 2023 OLED TV prices: evo G3 starts at $2,500, preorders start March 6 LG says its G3 OLED evo TV will be 70% brighter, with no visible wall gap LG’s 42-inch LX3 OLED TV can bend when you want it to LG’s latest 4K UST projector only needs 2.2 inches of wall clearance LG 2022 OLED TVs get brighter, bigger and … smaller? Features LG Audio / Video I’m excited. You’re excited. And if you aren’t, you really should be. Welcome to the most epic TV battle of 2021.
This comparison pits the LG G1 OLED Evo against the Sony Bravia XR A90J OLED, the two best 4K OLEDs from each brand, with both representing the next generation of OLED and offering more brightness than any OLED TV we’ve seen before. Very exciting, if you ask me. In this comparison we'll take a quick look at design and user experience, talk about how each TV achieves that new brightness, figure out which TV is actually brighter, as well as when and if that brightness matters, and look at picture quality as a whole before getting to some gaming stuff, all to determine which OLED TV deserves a coveted spot in your home.
Audio / Video It wasn't that long ago that OLED TV prices were so high, only those with a lot of disposable income could justify owning one. Now, with the official availability of LG's new 2021 A1 Series OLED TVs, you can buy one for as little as $1,300 for the entry-level 48-inch model.
Before today, there was a lot of speculation over how much LG would charge for its A1 Series, given that Vizio's OLED TVs (which use OLED panels from LG Display) are already very aggressively priced. But we now know that Vizio gets to retain its title of most affordable 55-inch OLED TV: Its 55-inch OLED model sells for $1,300 -- the same price as a 48-inch LG A1 Series, and $300 less than the 55-inch A1 Series model.
Audio / Video LG Display introduces world’s first 48-inch Bendable Cinematic Sound OLED display LG Dedicated gaming monitors and full-size TVs have been on a collision course for years. Gaming monitors have been getting bigger, with more TV-like features, and TVs, specifically OLED TVs, have been incorporating many of the technologies that gamers demand. But at CES 2021, these two worlds have completely collided in one awesome new display from LG Display. It's one of the most exciting new TVs at CES this year.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
