Computing Computing See All Computing Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards Artificial Intelligence Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos Mobile Mobile See All Mobile Trending Topics 5G Apps iPhone Android Wearables Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls How to Use WhatsApp Web Share a Wi-Fi Password on iPhone Gaming Gaming See All Gaming Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games Entertainment Entertainment See All Entertainment Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus ‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides Audio / Video Audio / Video See All Audio / Video Trending Topics TV Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos? Smart Home Smart Home See All Smart Home Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals Cars Cars See All Cars Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals Best Products Best Products See All Best Products Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Samsung Phones Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games Black Friday Deals Black Friday Deals Best Black Friday Deals Computing Black Friday Laptop Deals Black Friday MacBook Deals Gaming PC Black Friday Deals Graphics Card Black Friday Deals Gaming Laptop Black Friday Deals Gaming PS5 Black Friday Deals Nintendo Switch Black Friday Deals Xbox Series S Black Friday Deals Xbox Series X Black Friday Deals Gaming Headset Black Friday Deals Mobile Black Friday iPad Deals Black Friday Fitbit Deals Black Friday Tablet Deals Black Friday Smartwatch Deals Apple Watch Black Friday Deals Home Theater Sony TV Black Friday Deals OLED TV Black Friday Deals QLED TV Black Friday Deals Black Friday Soundbar Deals Samsung TV Black Friday Deals Smart Home Shark Black Friday Deals Dyson Black Friday Deals Black Friday Vacuum Deals Black Friday Robot Vacuum Deals Retailers Dell Black Friday Deals Walmart Black Friday Deals Best Buy Black Friday Deals Samsung Black Friday Deals Trending Black Friday AirPods Deals Dell XPS Black Friday Deals 75-inch TV Black Friday Deals Chromebook Black Friday Deals Samsung Frame TV Black Friday Deals Reviews Reviews See All Reviews Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews News More More Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft Deals TV Deals Phone Deals Laptop Deals Gaming PC Deals See All Tech Deals Original Series ReSpec Life on Mars Genius Home Tech for Change See All Original Series More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics YouTube Trending: Windows 12 GTA 5 Cheats Wordle Today iPhone 15 Deals Upcoming Movies Nintendo Switch 2 NYT Connections Today Google Pixel 8 Pro Review Home Audio / Video News With its QNED TV, LG joins the misleading label club By Simon Cohen Close Few rivalries in the tech space have been as cutthroat as the one between Korean electronics superpowers LG and Samsung. They compete across a variety of categories from kitchen appliances to smartphones , but when it comes to TVs , neither company has been shy about publicly calling out each other’s technology as inferior, or worse — misleading.
What’s in a name? Will the real QNED please stand up? Preemptive plans LG’s better than this This was the crux of a claim leveled at Samsung by LG after Samsung decided to use the moniker “QLED” to describe its quantum dot TVs.
LG felt that TV buyers might think that QLED was a reference to a true, self-emissive quantum dot display, as opposed to the quantum dot-enhanced LED backlight system that Samsung was using — and continues to use — on its QLED TVs.
Samsung accidentally reveals price of its 77-inch QD-OLED TV LG’s giant 97-inch M3 OLED TV eliminates HDMI cables LG prices its Flex, StanByMe TVs, and debuts a new model that doubles as magazine rack From LG’s perspective, this was a problem because it had rightfully been telling the world that its OLED TVs were the only self-emissive displays you could buy.
Each company decided to defend itself in a series of negative ads that denigrated the others’ TV products. It got so bad that the South Korean Fair-Trade Commission ultimately stepped in, at which point Samsung and LG agreed to stop the mudslinging.
Related Reading: New Samsung TV Lineup New LG TV Lineup But it seems that LG has decided that if you can’t beat ’em, you gotta join ’em. The company’s recent announcement that its new line of Mini-LED TVs will be called “QNED Mini LED TV” is exactly the kind of misleading move it had previously accused Samsung of making with QLED TV, and it’s likely to spark an entirely new round of tit-for-tat negative ads.
What’s in a name? The technology world is full of acronyms and it can be hard to stay on top of them all. There is a certain expectation, however, that once an acronym has been established, its meaning won’t change over time. This is how we can have meaningful comparisons between products. If, for example, Sony and Bose say that their headphones have “ANC,” we should be able to trust that both companies are referring to “active noise cancellation.” At this point, the only real question should be, which headphones have better ANC? The same should be true in the TV world. Now that LG, Vizio, Sony, and Philips all make OLED TVs, there should be no debate about what OLED means, even if there may be considerable differences in the picture quality produced by these competing OLED models.
But LG’s adoption of the “QNED” label throws this much-needed consistency of meaning out the window. That’s because we already have a definition for QNED , and it’s not at all what LG means when it uses this term.
Will the real QNED please stand up? Prior to LG’s announcement, QNED referred specifically to Quantum Nano Emitting Diodes. It’s a next-generation display technology that can theoretically deliver all the benefits of OLED and QLED in a single display, through the use of nanorod LEDs as a self-emissive light source.
If LG’s QNED Mini LED TVs actually used these nanorod LEDs, it would be a huge development in the TV world. But they don’t.
Even though LG hasn’t actually told us what the letters QNED stand for, we know there are no nanorods involved. Instead, LG’s QNED appears to take its “Q” from quantum dots and its “N” from the company’s NanoCell LCD display technology. It’s unclear what the “ED” stands for.
Preemptive plans So why would LG intentionally adopt an existing acronym if it isn’t an accurate description of its TVs? Part of the reason is likely a desire to captivate the TV buying public with a new buzzword. After all, if LG is the only company making a QNED TV, that must be worth paying attention to, right? But there’s another, more sinister reason. It turns out that Samsung has been quietly working on producing an actual QNED TV — one that uses nanorod LED technology. We probably won’t see these new models for another two years at least, but in labeling its Mini-LED TVs “QNED” LG has effectively pulled the product-naming carpet out from under Samsung.
It will be difficult, if not impossible, for Samsung to call these new TVs “QNED” (even if that’s exactly what they are) if LG is already using the QNED label for products that use a completely different kind of technology.
LG’s better than this We’re not naive. The TV landscape is incredibly competitive and it’s unrealistic to think that companies like LG and Samsung won’t engage in a variety of strategies that are designed to make buyers believe that the competition is inferior. But we also believe that whatever short-term gains LG might get from being first with the QNED label, in the long run, it’s the rest of us who will suffer. It can be tricky enough to wrap your head around something as relatively simple as the difference between QLED and OLED , when everyone agrees on the terminology. But when companies start to appropriate acronyms and change their meaning in the process, it sows the kind of confusion and doubt that makes things far more difficult.
Editors' Recommendations LG’s giant, wireless OLED TV gets a giant price Is 8K TV dying? It’s not looking good at CES 2023 LG says its G3 OLED evo TV will be 70% brighter, with no visible wall gap LG’s 42-inch LX3 OLED TV can bend when you want it to How to buy LG’s Star Wars ultra-limited-edition C2 OLED TV (and how much it costs) LG Samsung TV Audio / Video LG is producing a very limited Star Wars edition of its 65-inch C2 OLED Evo TV. Only 501 units will be sold in the U.S. and as yet, LG hasn't said how much these TVs -- which have a strong Darth Vader vibe -- will cost, or when they will be available to purchase, saying simply that, "the TV will be available via LG.com with specific availability announced at a later date," according to a press release. The announcement comes one day after the latest addition to the Star Wars franchise, Obi-Wan Kenobi made its debut on the Disney+ streaming service.
So while we don't know when these TVs will be sold, LG has released a few teaser images which we've included here. For those who want to see the Sith Lord's screen in the flesh, your first chance to do so will be at LG’s exhibit at the Star Wars Celebration, from May 26-29 at the Anaheim Convention Center.
Audio / Video I was beginning to think it was the tech unicorn of CES 2022.: A quantum dot OLED display that, by specs and science alone, had the potential to revolutionize TV picture quality. Then I saw it up close, and I'm here to tell you it is the best-looking image I've ever seen from a screen. And not by an incremental margin, either. I hate the term "game-changer," but it absolutely applies here. I couldn't be more excited for this massive leap forward for TVs in 2022.
How I finally came to see Samsung Display's QD-OLED (important note: This is not a consumer television from Samsung Electronics) is an adventurous tale unto its own, and one best left for another story. Here, I want to focus on what I saw and why I am convinced that this latest adaptation to OLED display technology is the most exciting thing I've seen since the introduction of HDR TVs.
Audio / Video The TV business is a tricky one. The business of a tech journalist covering TVs? It's trickier still. Case in point: In the midst of Samsung's other CES releases, Samsung snuck a brand-new TV technology into CES 2022 right under my nose. I'm supposed to know about this stuff ahead of time.
So what is this new TV? What is QD-OLED? What is QD-Display? And how in the world did Samsung pull a fast one on me? The answer is part tech and part inside baseball -- but all of it is important.
Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.
Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing Subscribe to our Newsletter Sponsored Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto Careers Advertise With Us Work With Us Diversity & Inclusion Terms of Use Privacy Policy Do Not Sell or Share My Information Manage cookie preferences Press Room Sitemap Manage Your Newsletters Close Close <% } %> <%- labelText %> <% if (labelURL) { %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- title %> <% if (url) { %> <% } %> <%- buttonText %> \n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t').concat(t[1],"\n\t\t\t\t\t\t \n\t\t\t\t\t Close
